Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5453-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
August 29, 1985
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawian Kwacha (MK)
US$ 1.00 = MK 1.80
-MK 1.00 = US$ 0.56
SDKR .00 - MK i.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (f)
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)           = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)       = 2,204 lb
GOVERUENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACAD         -     Assistant Chief Agricultural Officer
ADD          -     Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC       -     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ART          -     Adaptive Research Team
BES          -     Block Extension System
CAO          -     Chief Agricultural Officer (Extension)
CAS          -     Controller of Agricultural Services
CTO          -     Chief Technical Officer
DAR          -     Department of Agricultural Research
DCAO         -     Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer
DOA          -     Department of Agriculture
DTC          -     Day Training Center
ACB          -     Agricultural Communications Branch
EABSA        -     Regional Mission for Eastern and Southern Africa I:BRD)
EPA          -     Extension Planning Areas
FHA          -     Farm Home Assistant
GOM          -     Government of Malawi
MOA          -    Ministry of Agriculture
NRC          -     Natural Resources College
NRDP         -     National Rural Development Program
NSCM         -     National Seed Company of Malawi
ODA          -     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPC          -     Office of the President and Cabinet
PD           -     Planning Division
P0           -     Professional Officer
PS           -     Principal Secretary
PSC          -     Public Service Commission
RDP          -     Rural Development Project
RTC          -     Residential Training Center
SAO          -     Senior Administrative Officer
SAL          -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SMS          -     Subject Matter Specialist
STA          -     Senior Technical Assistant
STO          -     Senior Technical Officer
T&V          -     Training and Visit System
TA           -     Technical Assistant
TO           -     Technical Officer
US.ID        -     United States Agency for International Development
I This doCuMent has a festriced distribution and msy be usd by reipients only in the perfonance of
their ofricial duties. lts contents nmy not othcrwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



MAL&WI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ...... ...........................    iv
I.       BACKGROUND 1..........                      ..........        I
A.  Introduction and Economic Setting .............          1
B.  Agricultural Sector 2....2
C.  Government Financing of Agriculture                      5
D.  Agricultural Development Strategy .............          5
E.  Experience with Past Development Lending ......          5
II.      THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE ......................            7
A.  The Planning Division 7................ ......           7
B.  The Department of Agriculture .................          9
III.     THE PROJECT          ...............           ........    12
A.  Sectoral Strategy and Project Rationale .......    12
B.  Project Identification and Preparation ........    13
C.  Brief Description .............................    13
D.  Detailed Features .............    14
E.  Project Cost Estimates and Fiaencing ..........    20
F.  Procurement .....................   ..                  22
G.  Disbursements                                           23
H.  Accounts and Audit                                      23
I.  Government Cash Flow                                    24
IV.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................    25
A.  Organization and Management .......00 ........    25
B.  Strengthening the Planning Division ...o ......    26
C.  National Extension System Development .........    26
D.  Technical Assistance                 .............    27
E.  Implementation Schedule                   .........    27
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation                ..........    28
G.  Environmental Impact ...       ....    28



- 12. -
V.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION BENEFITS AND RISKS    ...........  28
A.  Justification ............ ......................  28
B.  Benefits ........................................  29
C.  Methodology and General Assumptions .... ........  30
D.  Risks ..........................................    32
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............  33
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1        Project Cost Summary
Table 3.2        Project Financing Plan
ANNEXES
I.             Selected Charts and Tables
C-1          -   Present Structure of the Ministry of Agriculture
C-2          -   Proposed Structure of Planning Division
C-3          -   Proposed Structure of the Department of Agriculture
C-4          -   Project Implementation Schedule
C-5          -   Key Indicators of Implementation
Table T-1   -   Training Schedule for MOA's Planning Division and DOA's
Extension Staff
Table T-2   -   Technical Assistance Schedule
Table T-3   -   Planning Division (Current Staff Establishment)
Table T-4   -  Department of Agriculture (Current Staff Establishment)
II.            Cost and Financial Tables
Table T-5    -   Project Components by Year
Table T-6   -   Project Components by Year (totals including
contingencies)
Table T-7   -   Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table T-8    -   Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table T-8a  -   Summary Accounts by Year
Table T-9   -   Schedule of Disbursement
Table T-9a  -   Government Cash Flow Projections
III.           Terms of Reference
A            -  MOA - Planning Division, Planning and Management
Advisor
B            -   DOA - Extension Management and Planning Advisor
C            -   DOA - Financial Advisor/Controller
D            -  DOA - Seed Multiplication Specialist



- iii -
IV.      Mzuzu ADD - Summary Tables
Table 11 - Cropping Pattern, Areas and Average Yields
Table 12 - Incremental Yields, Area, and Production in Year Five
Table 13 - Packages and Variable Costs
Table 14 - Comparative Enterprise Costs and Returns
V.       Selected Documents Available in the Project File, DOC # 109.606
Project Preparation Documents
+   Proposal for the Strengthening and Restructuring of the
Planning Division - Ministry of Agriculture
+   National Smallholder Agricultural Extension, Training and
Technical Services (2 volumes)
+   Agricultural Extension Department of Agriculture:
Observations and Recommerdations
+   Extension and Rural Development Project Proposals (6 volumes)
+   Smallholder Seasonal Credit
Working Papers
+   Extension Staff Training
+   ADD Extension Support - Mzuzu ADD Agricultural Services
MAP
IBRD No. 18833



ACRClG&L IEXTENSION fA   MII  SC        OR1T PtOJECT
CREDIT AM PRJCT SUMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Malawi
Amount:            SDR 11.7 million (US$ 11.6 million)
Terms:             Standrd
Project
Description:     Ihe proposed Project vold support an institutional
d    telopuet proess aimed at:  i) improving ministry
of Agriculture's mlytical _ad long-term planning
capability; (ii) strgthenin  the national extension
system through development of more effective
m-chanims for program priority setting, resource
allocation and financial mnagemet; and (iii)
upgrading tho _marial, administrative and technical
skills of Department of Agriculture (DOA) and Planning
Division (PD) staff. Main features of the Project include:
Wi) strengtheig  UDA's Planning Division through
technical assistance, training and logistical support;
*  (ii) stregthbmiag ROA's capacity to plan,
mplemnt and umitor the agricultural extension
progrm by: (a) supporting a substantial training
progr_ for eztesion staff and establishing a
training unit in ML; tb) introducing a technical
career stre an ad a promotion system fer professional
and technical staff; (c) supporting and testing
inovative approaches to agricultural extension and
informtion tranfer in Nzuzu agricultural development
division including provision of incremental credit to
amallboldere in the Numm area to encourage adoption
of improd teemil  necmmendations; (d)
strengthening the enistiag system of financial
management; (e) supporting production of improved
technical and training mterials; and (f) improving
extension and reserch linkages. The Project, to be
carried out over 5 years, provides funds for civil
works; vehicles, furniture and equipment; training;
technical assistance; and some operating costs.
Benefits and
Risks:           Benefits under the proposed Project are
epctad from: Ci) imprvod efficiencies in
* Aew4ftr l seSOer pamiung and extension planning
aud budgeting; aod (ii) increaes in agricultural
production and productivity. PbYsible risks include



- v -
ineffective management of the planning and
extension programs, inadequate provision of
budgetary resources and low acceptance rates
by farmers. To minimize these risks, the
Project provides for a new extension planning
and budgeting system to achieve greater
efficiency with existing resources, staff and
infrastructure; substantial managerial and
technical in-service training and consultancy
services to supplement local expertise; a
firm commitment from Government to provide
adequate budgetary resources and the opportunity
to test different approaches to information and
technology transfer in the Mzuzu ADD before
introducing them throughout the country.



- vi -
Estimated Costs a/                      Local        Foreign       Total
--(  US$ million) --
Planning Division                       0.37          1.69          2.06
National Extension Program               1.09         4.54          5.63
Agricultural Communications Branch      0.03          1.58          1.61
Adaptive Research Program                0.02         0.15          0.17
Mzuzu ADD including incremental credit  1.50          3.22          4.72
Base Cost                          3.01         11.18         14.19
Physical Contingencies                   0.38         1.08          1.46
Price Contingencies                      1.46         3.09          4.55
Total Project Costs                4.85          15.35        20.20
a/   Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible.
Financing Plan:                         Local        Foreign       Total
-(US$ million)       --
Government                              0.9            1.5          2.4
USAID                                    0.6           5.6          6.2
IDA                                     3.3            8.3         11.6
Total                              4.8           15.4         20.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year       1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991
-- -(US$ million)
Annual                0.7      2.6       3.9      2.1      1.5      0.8
Cumulative            0.7      3.3       7.2      9.3     10.8     11.6
Economic
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 5453-MAI, dated August 29, 1985
Map:              IBRD No. 18833



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
I.   BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction and Economic Setting
1.01     Malawi, a land-locked country, has a total land area of
approximately 94,300 km2 of which 36,200 km2 is generally defined as
arable. Malawi has had one of the better economic performance records in
the region; real GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5 percent per annum
between 1967 and 1979, declining to 0.4 percent in 1980 and 0.8 percent
in 1981, but recovering to 3.0 percent in 1982. The economy remains
heavily dependent upon the export of three agricultural commodities
(tobacco. sugar and tea). Malawi has, however, produced considerable
surpluses of maize, its primary food crop, over the past two crop seasons
(1982/83 and 1983/84).
1.02     Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy,
providing 40 percent of the GDP (down from 50 percent in the early
1970s), 85 percent to 90 percent of foreign exchange earnings and
employing about 85 percent of the labor force. In 1983, the smallholder
sub-sector provided 78 percent of the agricultural GDP. Smallholder
agriculture accounts for nearly 80 percent of total agricultural
production. A wide range of crops are cultivated of which the most
important are maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco, cotton, beans,
cassava, rice, sorghum, and millet. Over the past few years, smallholder
agriculture has been characterized by a steady swing from a relatively
diversified cropping pattern to maize monocropping. Recently,
considerable maize surpluses above self-sufficiency requirements have
enabled regional export.
1.03     Since 1978/79, the country's fiscal position has deteriorated.
Government deficits, rarely exceeding 9 percent of GDP before then, now
average over 15 percent of GDP. Increased borrowing has accompanied the
deficits and inflationary pressures have mounted.
1.04     An improvement in the performance of the economy will be heavily
dependent upon both the ability of the Government to restore traditional
and develop alternative low cost transport routes to the sea and the
capacity of the farming community to intensify and diversify its
agricultural production. In many areas, little arable land remains
uncultivated and thus, productivity of both food and cash crops will have
to be greatly improved. Improvements in crop productivity will be based
on further development and use of appropriate technology and timely
availability and adequate supply of agricultural inputs.



- 2 -
B.   The Agricultural Sector
1.05     Structure.  Agricultural production derives from two
sub-sectors: smallholders farming on customary land and estates farming
on leasehold land (principally under private management). Out of the
country's total arable land area of about 36,000 km2, nearly 70Z is
cultivated by smallholders and 5% by estates. The estate sub-sector has
been the major earner of foreign exchange with exports of tobacco, sugar,
tea, tung oil, coffee and macadamia nuts.
1.06     Climate, soils and land capability.  Relatively fertile soils,
generally reliable rainfall and a wide ranging relief permit a variety of
food and cash crops to be grown.
1.07     Performance.  Recent statistics indicate that annual real growth
in smallholder and estate agriculture, measured in terms of agricultural
GDP, averaged at least 4.3 percent and 2.9 percent respectively between
1980 and 1984. In the smallholder subsector, maize production exhibited
the most rapid growth, reflecting relative price shifts largely at the
expense of groundnuts, cotton, and fire and sun-air cured tobacco.
Estate production of all the major commodities increased markedly between
1972 and 1982: annual growth rates for flue-cured tobacco, burley
tobacco, tea and sugar were 10, 17, 6 and 18 percent respectively over
the past decade. However, international price factors and high transport
costs have had a depressing effect on the recent performance of the
estate sector, which has, in addition, had some managerial problems.
Productivity in the smallholder subsector is well below its potential.
Better performance has been constrained by: (i) poor price incentives
until recently; (ii) limited availability of appropriate technology for
many smallholders; (iii) Government regulation preventing smallholder
participation in the production of selected high value agricultural
export crops; (iv) untimely and limited availability of fertilizer; and
Cv) the limited availability of locality-specific extension messages.
1.08     Agricultural Services (See paras. 2.08-2.17 Eor Extension).
(a)    Agricultural Research  is carried out by the Department
of Agricultural Research (DAR) of MOA, the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Malawi, the Tea Research Foundation and the Tobacco
Research Authority. Research programs are organized on a crop basis and
research teams are led by commodity coordinators. Programs are reviewed
from time to time when objectives are redefined. However, in recent
years, extension staff have had little involvement in this process. As a
result, there has been a proliferation of commodity programs which often
do not take into account the problems faced by smallholder farmers.
Agricultural research in Malawi will be strengthened through the
IDA/USAID assisted National Agricultural Research Project which aims to
improve the focus and quality of Malawi's smallholder oriented
agricultural research program, strengthen critical linkages particularly
between the research and extension programs and improve the efficiency
and economy of DAR's ongoing activities.



- 3 -
1.09     (b)    Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply is provided
largely through the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
(ADMARC), a statutory company established to purchase smallholder crops
(food and non-food), sell food crops and sell and deliver crop production
inputs (seed, fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and farm implements).
ADMARC is a monopoly only with regard to sun-air and fire-cured
smallholder tobacco and smallholder cotton. Until 1980, authorized
prices permitted ADMARC to sustain a healthy financial position. In
1980/81, higher transport costs, poor crop handling, and higher ccsts of
borrowing for large investments resulted in some financial deterioration;
however, by 1981/82, ADMARC was again realizing profits on some of its
crops (particularly non-food) and had further recovered by 1982/83.
Efforts to improve ADMARC's performance have accompanied Malawi's
Structural Adjustment Program.
1.10     Fertilizers for the estate sub-sector are principally procured
by Optichem, a locally incorporated company, and other agro-chemicals are
marketed by various commercial firms. Estate produce is marketed almost
entirely through the private sector. The National Seed Company of Malawi
produces a wide range of agricultural seeds for both smallholders and
estates.
1.11     (c)    Credit Services.  The main financial institutions
providing credit to commercial (estate) farmers are the two commercial
banks, i.e. the Commercial Bank of Malawi, Limited (CBM) and the National
Bank of Malawi, Limited (NBM). Although both are indirectly controlled
by Press Holdings and by'GOM through shareholdings held by ADKARC and
Malawi Development Corporation, each operates as an independent insti-
tution. The commercial banks lend primarily to tobacco estates and, in
recent years, the agricultural loan portfolio has ranged between 35 and
50 percent of their total lending. The Investment and Development Bank
of Malawi Limited (INDEBANK) gives high investment priority to agriculture
and agro-processing, particularly for the export sector. In 1983,
INDEBANK's assistance to agriculture and agro-industries accounted for
40 percent of its portfolio.
1.12     Credit to smallholders is provided by both institutional and
non-institutional sources. Most smallholder credit is available from
government and quasi-government sources such as: (i) National Rural
Development Program (NRDP); (ii) Government Loans Board (GLM); (iii)
United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF); and (iv) Settlement
Schemes Fund (SSF). The Ministry of Agriculture is solely responsible
for administering these funds, and exercises some influence over the
lending activities of the Government Loans Board, which are under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Smallholder contact
with the banking system is mainly through the Post Office Savings Bank
for deposit of money and, to a lesser extent, through the mobile agents
of the commercial banks.
1.13     There are two main types of credit available to smallholder
farmers in Malawi: seasonal and medium term, and both are provided in
kind. Although both types are available to individual farmers and to
groups of farmers, in practice, seasonal credit is issued to groups and
medium-term to individuals. Seasonal credit to individuals accounted for



84 percent of total credit in 1975/76, but dwindled to close to zero by
1984/85. The formation of farmers'clubs and credit groups has been
encouraged in order to reduce the administrative costs of MOA's support
services to farmers and to increase the effectiveness of the extension
system. The use of the credit groups has also minimized defaults through
the joint liability of group members for individual loans. Repayment
rates of individual credit averaged about 70 percent, compared to 90 to
100 percent for farmers' clubs/groups.
1.14     About MK 12 million of seasonal credit for farm inputs is
available in the form of "packages", containing the blanket
recommendations made by the Department of Agricultural Research for
nation-wide application. Since 1978, credit terms have gradually been
standardized under the National Rural Development Program (NRDP).
Interest, which generally is referred to as credit service charge, on
seasonal credit is charged at a flat rate of 10 percent. At this level,
and if the loan is held about 3/4 of a year before repayment, the
effective interest rate is about 13.5 percent which is more than the
current inflation rate of 12 percent.
1.15     Medium-term credit is available at an interest rate of 10
percent per annum with a repayment schedule of up to 7 years for
production and capital investments (oxen, ox-carts, and other farm
implements). However, at present, most of these items are procured
through ADMARC (a relatively high cost source) and, as a result, uptake
of credit funds has been limited. Medium-term credit is also available
to farmers for the purchase of dairy animals and the construction of
dairy facilities but is not available for the construction of other
buildings or storage sheds.
1.16     (d)    Pricing Policy.  Official prices of crops produced by
smallholders are currently set by the Government, based upon
recommendations by the Price Committee, which includes representatives of
MOA, Ministry of Finance (MOF), Economic Planning Division (EPD) and
ADMARC. Consequently, private traders occasionally obtain the bulk of
some items (such as beans) because they are prepared to offer higher
prices. Except for maize and tobacco, the prices of major crops are
set near the appropriate export or import parity price. Maize prices
are set between import and export parity with the objective of long run
self-sufficiency. Tobacco prices are set at levels which will provide
returns to farm labor competitive with alternative crops.
1.17     The responsiveness of smallholders to price incentives is
vividly demonstrated with maize. To ensure the maize self-sufficiency
objective, the Government in 1982/83 increased the financial price of
maize which,coupled with subsidized fertilizer prices, resulted in gross
returns to labor higher than for other smallholder crops. This provided
an incentive to farmers to produce maize as a cash crop and resulted in
considerable surplus production. This imbalance has been corrected over
the past two cropping seasons with price adjustments for groundnuts,
cotton, tobacco and beans; significant increases in ADMARC purchases of
these crops have been recorded.



- 5 -
C.  Government Financing of Asriculture
1.18     In 1984/85, the Governmeut budgeted MK 29.63 million, or about
12.7 percent of its total recurrent budget (excluding statutory
expenditure) for the agricultural and natural resources sector.
Agriculture received the second largest allocation in the recurrent budget
after education (17 percent). Of the total amount budgeted on the
revenue account for agriculture, agricultural extension, agricultural
research, veterinary services, fisheries and forestry received 45.8
percent, 11.6 percent, 15.4 percent and 14.2 percent respectively. In
the same year, Government budgeted K 46.10 m, or about 30 percent of its
total development budget, for agriculture and natural resources.
D.   Agricultural Development Strategy
1.19     The Government is attempting to provide a growth climate for
both smallholder and estate production in order to support its overall
strategy of maintaining self-sufficiency in food staples with expansion
of agricultural exports and improvement in rural incomes. Since the end
of the 1970s, the Government's National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
has provided a wide range of services to the mallholder subsector. By
1984, 80 percent of the smallholder subsector was under NRDP. NRDP has
been designed to increase smallholder productivity through the provision
of agricultural inputs and farm services and to increase the scope and
efficiency of extension, marketing and credit services. Cultivation of
new land has been discouraged in favour of increasing the productivity of
areas already cultivated. Attention is given to soil conservation,
watershed management and afforestation. The growth of village-run farm
clubs throughout NRDP areas has facilitated the delivery of extension and
training to farmers and has enabled the efficient issuance and recovery
of farm credit. The importance of the role of women in agriculture in
Malawi is receiving increasing attention. The Women's Programmes (WP)
Section in the Department of Agriculture replaced the Home Economics
Section in 1981 in response to the perceived need to emphasize rural
womens' contribution to and involvement in agricultural production.
E.   Experience with Past IDA Lending
1.20     Agriculture has been a major focus of both IDA's Structural
Adjustment Lending Operations in Malawi (SAL I, Loan 2026-MAI, and SAL
II, Credit 1427-MAI). The major policy improvements under SAL I included
introduction of better incentives for smallholders through increased
producer prices and allocation of a larger share of available budgetary
resources to the Ministry of Agriculture. Agreement was reached with GOM
on the importance of price as an incentive for increasing smallholder
production. A pricing methodology was formulated and applied which
reversed the past real decline in prices for smallholder crops. In 1984,
smallholder production of cotton and tobacco increased for the first time
in nearly a decade.
1.21     Prior to the establishment of NRDP, IDA belped finance three of
the four large integrated agricultural programs in Lilongwe Phase I, II
and III, Karonga and the Shire Valley Phase I and II (Credits 113, 244
and 550-MAI, 282-MAI, 114-MAI and 363-MAI; with related PPARs 751, 1597,



3414, 2576, 895 and 2593 respectively). These rural development projects
were multicomponent (involving agriculture, livestock, forestry, health,
water supplies, roads and marketing), intensive in terms of staffing and
levels of investment per benefitting farm family and, for a time, managed
by a cadre of largely expatriate personnel. Implementation of these
programs was generally good and the projects were popular with farmers
although crop production increases were often lower than originally
forecast. Since 1978, IDA has assisted the Government with the
development of NRDP in the Lilongwe, Dedza, Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu, Mzuzu,
Mzimba, Karonga and Chitipa areas (Credits 857-MAI, 1183-MAI and
1343-MAI). The production record of NRDP has been mixed as stated in the
NRDP Review report of June 30, 1982. OED more recently did a study on
the impact of the Shire Valley Project and an agriculture sector
operations review on Malawi and Upper Volta. With few exceptions,
appraisal targets have not been realized. In some cases yields have not
been as high as projected, but more often it is the uptake rate of input
packages (hectarage) that has fallen short of expectations. Where data
are clear, certain patterns do emerge: when farmers adopted packages and
extension recommendations, yields were as high as or exceeded appraisal
estimates. Farmers did not take credit packages if they had relatively
low returns from their particular crops or if they preferred planting
subsistence food crops instead of cash crops, to ensure their family's
food supply. This experience and the conclusions of the various related
PPARs have highlighted the need to: (i) develop acceptable crop technical
packages for subsistence crops; (ii) incorporate area-specific extension
advice on crops in the farming system in each area; and (iii) ensure
that this advice is both technically sound and financially attractive to
farmers.
1.22     On infrastructure under NRDP, targets were usually met,
sometimes exceeded, construction was completed in a timely manner often
within cost estimates and was of a high standard. However, under
Government policy, Malawian civil servants are eligible for
-housing, and shortage of housing in some areas under NRDP has proven
to be a major constraint in recruiting staff. Unit housing costs are
high and there is scope for reducing housing construction costs without
compromising standards. In this connection, GOM has entered into
discussions with IDA on how to reduce its allocations to housing. IDA
has financed the redesign of six prototypes,reducing housing unit costs
by about 20Z,1argely through savings in plumbing location, electricals,
and foundation material rather than through reductions in basic entitlements
such as total floor space or number of bedrooms.
1.23     NRDP's record on the handover of infrastructure for
operation and maintenance from the Ministry of Agriculture to parent
ministries (roads, health, water supplies) has been less than
satisfactory. In some cases, roads have reverted to tracks or bush,
health facilities have been under-utilized and water supplies have not
been maintained. As a consequence, several departments and ministries
have now developed or are planning national programs for rural investment
which would establish sectoral priorities with regard to staffing and
available resources. In the forestry subsector, for example, IDA through
its wood energy pro3.-ct (Credit 992-MAI) is supporting the first phase of



a national program to meet the demand for fuelwood and poles in high wood
deficit areas.
1.24     On resources available to support NRDP, experience has shown
that despite covenants in the credit agreement ensuring adequate funding
of project recurrent costs in the post implementation phase, funds made
available for maintaining and operating existing NRDP investments are
increasingly in short supply. The implication of this "squeeze" on
recurrent finance is that non-essential recurrent expenditures must be
cut and measures introduced to facilitate smoother phasing of projects
from the development to the revenue budget thus easing "shock" of the
transition. GOM under SAL I and II is committed to reviewing on an
ongoing basis the recurrent budget allocations to MOA to ensure that they
are adequate. The Extension Planning and Agricultural Support Project
embodies, as a major objective, introduction of improvements in overall
programming and budgeting to achieve better resource utilization and cost
effectiveness within the NRDP program. Similar objectives for
agricultural research are being pursued under the recently approved
research project (IDA Credit 1549-MAI).
II.   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
2.01     The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is the central institution
responsible for overall policy formulation, planning coordination and
management ofthe smallholder agricultural sector. MOA is also charged
with providing most of the agricultural services, as well as providing
general direction to the parastatals and crop authorities involved in
agricultural activities. MOA is headed by a Principal Secretary (PS),
who is assisted by a Senior Deputy Principal Secretary (SDPS). MOA is
divided into five organizational units: Department of Agricultural
Research (DAR); Department of Agriculture (Extension); Department of
Animal Health and Industry (DAHI); Planning Division (PD); and General
Administration (GA). In 1978, in an effort to integrate the management
of NRDP into the government structure, a fundamental change was
introduced in the demarcation of extension planning areas (EPAs). The
EPAs were aggregated at two levels, development areas (DAs) and
agricultural development divisions (ADDs) with a delegation of powers
from the ADDs to the DAs. There are eight ADDs which report to the
Principal Secretary through the Controller of the Agricultural Services
(CAS-NRDP) (Chart C-1).
A.   The Planning Division
Organizational Structure and Function
2.02     The Planning Division, headed by a Chief Projects Officer, is
responsible for: (i) the preparation of annual budget estimates for MOA;
(ii) identification and preparation of project proposals; (iii) annual
evaluation of ongoing projects; (iv) provision of advice on sectoral
policies (including annual submission of smallholder crop price
proposals); and (v) compilation and maintenance of agricultural
statistics 2/. To perform these functions, PD is divided into five
sections: price policy and marketing; project preparation; survey
2/   A detailed list of PD's terms of reference is given in Annex III (A).



- 8 -
statistics and evaluation; planning and budgeting; and data pi.-ocessing.
In addition, it has been proposed that an agricultural statistics unit be
created under the Surveys Statistics and Evaluation S_ction with funding
from the IDA National Rural Development fricJ-t Faronga-Chitipa (Credit
1183-MAI). Although the unit has not been formally established, a
statistician seconded from the National Statistics Office (NSO) has begun
work.
2.03     Under the present organizational structure, the Chief Projects
Officer is assisted by a Principal Planning Economist and a Principal
Evaluation Officer. The Principal Planning Economist is responsible for
the project preparation, processing 3/ and marketing sections. The
central evaluation and agro-economic surveys unit is under the Principal
Evaluation Officer. This unit also supervises the Planning and
Evaluation units in the eight ADDs.
2.04     The designated functions of the Planning Division appear to
cover most of the essential aspects of agricultural planning and no major
changes are proposed under the Project, but some modifications are
required in its structure (Chart C-2). Over the past several years, PD's
volume of work and complexity of assignments have increased significantly
due to, inter alia, rapid expansion of projects, a growing number of
external financing agencies requiring considerable project documentation,
and more rigorous/systematic involvement in formulation of crop price
policy proposals. The current authorized staff strength of 23
professionals (Annex I, Table T-4) is inadequate to handle the present
workload. PD's staffing situation is a major constraint and has given
rise to two main areas of concern described below.
Staff Vacancies
2.05     At the time of Project appraisal, 14 of 23 established
positions in the Planning Division were vacant including the Chief
Projects Officer, Principal Planning Economist, Principal Evaluation
Officer and Senior Economist Project Preparation.4/ These vacancies have
been mainly caused by the availability of more attractive employment
opportunities in the private sector and with the parastatals. Staff
depletion has also resulted from the unplanned transfer of senior
personnel belonging to the "economic common service" to other positions
in the Government. Some vacancies have also resulted from the prolonged
absence of incumbents who are on fellowships abroad. As a consequence,
the remaining staff are unable to carry out their assigned functions
efficiently and work is undertaken on an ad hoc and emergency basis.
Management Constraints
2.06     The Chief Projects Officer and Principal Planning Economist
positions became vacant in February and August 1984 respectively. Both
positions have recently been filled. Lack of experienced staff, however,
has had particularly adverse effects on PD's performance. As a result,
3/   This is a misnomer; sectoral planning and budgeting are the two main
functions of this section.
4/   At the time of negotiations only three positions remained vacant.



- 9 -
the Chief Projects Officer must contend with numerous routine but
Clme-consuming administrative matters which lessen his effectiveness
as a manager and allow for insufficient time to focus on long-range
work programming for the Division or to provide adequate supervision/
guidance to junior staff. The PD is presently assisted by two
internationally recruited professionals financed under the IDA/IFAD-
funded Smallholder Fertilizer Project and the UNDP technical assistance
pregram. Their contribution has been limited to conducting specific
studies.
2.07     MOA has become increasingly aware of the urgent need to improve
PD's performance. Recently, a series of actions have been taken/proposed
by MOA which address some of the critical problems: (i) changes in PD's
organizational structure (Chart C-2); (ii) filling the position of Chief
Projects Officer 5/; (iii) upgrading PD's level to other departments
within MOA and regrading the Division head's position from P5 to P4 level
(in order to enhance the Division's status and authority viz-a-viz other
departments in MOA) 61; (iv) establishment of additional positions to
handle the increased workload; and (v) earnest efforts to recruit
qualified persons to fill presently vacant positions. MOA is also in the
process of recruiting internationally for an Evaluation Specialist and a
Systems Analyst, to be financed by IDA under Credits 1183-MAl and
1428-MAI 7/ respectively. These persons would act as advisors to the
Principal Survey, Statistics and Evaluation Economist, and the Data
Processing Unit.
B.   The Department of Agriculture
Organizational Structure, Staffing and Functions
2.08     Agricultural extension is carried out under the National Rural
Development Program (NRDP) which was launched in 1978 with the main
objective of consolidating the previous rural development efforts and
spreading the benefits of rural development more rapidly and widely. The
Ministry of Agriculture through its Department of Agriculture (DOA) is
the lead agency in implementing this multi-component program.
2.09     DOA is headed by a Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO), and is supported
by a Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer (DCAO). The Department has four
technical branches: land husbandry, extension, crops, and agricultural
communication, each headed by an Assistant Chief Agricultural Officer. DOA
also has a finance and an administration unit headed by a senior executive of-
ficer and a chief executive officer respectively. The national agricultural
extension system is decentralized into 30 Rural Development Projects (RDPs)
and 208 Extension Planning Areas (EPAs). The planning, administration and
management of the extension program at the field level is carried out by
the eight Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs) each headed by a
5/   Final selection of the candidate was made after Project appraisal.
6/   Implementation of this proposal is subject to the approval of the
Office of President and Cabinet.
7/   National Rural Development Program Phase III Karonga Chitipa (Credit
1183-MAI) and the Technical Assistance II Project (Credit 1428-MAI).



- 10 -
Program Manager (PM).
2.10     Initially, NDRP was mainly an investment program to build up rural
infrastructure (roads, housing, offices, training centers, marketing
centers, health clinics, dip tanks, water supply, etc.) in the ecologically
defined rural development project areas (RDPs). Agricultural and rural
development staff were placed at all levels from the regional Program
Managers at the Agricultural Development Division (ADD) level to the
technical assistants at field level. As of July 1985, of a total
establishment of about 3,324 professional and technical posts, DOA has
about 205 (6 percent) vacancies. The establishment posts and number of
vacancies are summarized in Annex I Table T-5. There are presently around
9,600 field extension staff and 500 subject matter specialists working in 8
ADDs. The number of extension staff has more than doubled between 1981 and
1984, mainly due to the large increase in the number of new rural
development projects.
2.11      During this period of systems build-up, much of the
infrastructure was put in place and most of the extension field staff
positions were filled with an average farmer to extension worker ratio of
750 to 1. However, insufficient attention was paid, inter alia, to the
quality of the extension content, the linkage between extension and
research, adaptive research and training of farmers and DOA staff. These
deficiencies were highlighted by the 1982 NRDP Review, which recommended
that the RDPs focus on activities that directly support agricultural
production, and that execution of non-agricultural activities (roads,
forestry, health, etc.) become the responsibility of the respective sector
ministries.
2.12      The Review also concluded that while a satisfactory institutional
framework for the delivery of extension services was in place, the
effectiveness of the extension service was increasingly hampered by:
(i) the limited number of adequately trained and experienced managerial and
technical staff; (ii) absence of structured career development
opportunities or incentives for high achievement; (iii) inadequate
formulation of technical packages for smallholder crops, (iv) inadequate
extension planning and budgeting systems; and (v) poor preparation and
unavailability of extension materials.
Management Constraints
2.13      In MOA, the number of professional and technical positions in
higher grades are relatively few and expcrienced staff often seek transfer
to management positions in order to advance professionally. The frequency
and timing of these transfers has had an adverse effect on the management
of the extension service as fewer qualified staff are available to assume a
management function. Senior staff are also lured into the private sector
by more attractive salaries and benefit packages. Demand for managerial
staff has increased dramatically with the rapid expansion of NRDP. Given
present manpower constraints, these positions cannot be filled immediately
by persons with management experience and instead have been filled by



- 11 -
technicians who are expected to acquire management experience over time.
This has contributed to the variable quality of management and other key
staff within the extension system and highlights the need for a strengthened
management training program.
Staff Incentives and Career Development
2.14     DOA's staff promotion ladder is limited by: (i) the small number
of grades assigned to each of its civil service ranks; and
(ii) the absence of a technical career stream for Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs), which would allow them to advance in the civil
service without requisite movement into supervisory or administrative
positions. Promotion to the limited number of superscale posts is the
only avenue available for rewarding staff for outstanding performance.
Promotion opportunities for the TAs within their grades and to higher
grades are even more limited. Dissemination of technical advice is done
by extension TAs who make contact through farmers'groups. These field
workers constitute the backbone of the extension service and it is
important that they be adequately trained and motivated. A Civil Service
Review Commission financed by the Overseas Development Agency (ODA) is
now reviewing all aspects of the civil service structure,including the
institution of scientific and technical career streams. GOM has
undertaken to make no changes in the civil service policy pending the
Commission's report due in September 1985.
Extension Recommendations
2.15     The impact of the extension service has been hampered by the
interactive effects of insufficient price incentives, limited credit,
erratic input supplies and the low level of applied technology. In
general, technical packages have focused on fertilized hybrid maize
monocropping (not the preferred variety for home consumption) or cash
crops, which until recently were largely unattractive to smallholders
whose first priority has been adequate food supply. Insufficient
attention has been given to subsistence crops (i.e. local maize, pulses,
sorghuw, nillet and cassava) in adaptive trials on farmers'fields.
Current extension messages are usually in the form of blanket
recommendations with little reference to local climatic and/or soil
conditions or farmer acceptability with regard to labor and agricultural
inputs. Priority attention should be given to identifying farmers' key
problems and developing recommendations regarding input use and husbandry
practices tailored to local agronomic, social and economic conditions.
This is one of the key objectives of the recently initiated national
agricultural research project and also the proposed Project.
Inadequate Extension Planning and Budgeting
2.16     Resource allocation in DOA would improve considerably with the
introduction of a system for linking investment objectives and priorities
with resource availability. Although annual work plans and budgets
are routinely prepared by all ADDs, they are of uneven quality. Work plans,
rather than being prepared parallel to the budget, are prepared 3 to 4 months



- 12 -
later. Consequently, budget estimates are not based on careful
evaluation of sectoral or extension priorities, but on Treasury
prescribed guidelines on expenditures. Without a mechanism to ensure
that scarce funds are rationed according to the relative priorities of
contending programs, both essential and non-essential agricultural
services have often been cut arbitrarily with adverse effects on
productivity.
Ineffective Communication Support
2.17     Extension advice is based on the "Guide to Agricultural
Production" and "Agricultural Handbooks" which are technical manuals for
food and cash crops. As there is a need for updated technical material
(handbooks printed materials, radio programs, tapes, films, etc.), the
Project, under USAID financing, would provide support for the Extension
Aids Branch and the audio visual aids units at the ADDs to produce a wide
range of training and teaching materials for use by extension staff and
farmers.
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Sectoral Strategy and Project Rationale
3.01     GOM has entered a period of relatively severe financial
constraints and, as a consequence, the MOA budget and manpower levels
will show only modest real increases over the medium-term. The need both
to link investment objectives and priorities more closely with resource
availability and to achieve greater efficiency with existing resources,
staff and infrastructure is, therefore, pressing. Improvements in
agricultural planning, research and extension in Malawi are all pivotal
to expanding agricultural production, promoting crop diversification and
increasing export earnings.
3.02     IDA's assistance strategy to Malawi's agricultural sector is one
of long-term institutional development. The lending operation now
proposed focuses on agricultural extension and planning and,together with
the recently approved research operation, is part of a major long-term
effort to develop Malawi's key agricultural institutions at the national
level. The National Agricultural Research Project aims to improve
the focus and quality of Malawi's agricultural research program and to
reinforce critical linkages particularly between the research and
extension systems. The proposed Agricultural Extension and Planning
Support Project would strengthen agricultural planning within MOA and
improve the efficiency of the extension service. Specifically, proposed
assistance to MOA's Planning Division aims to develop a consensus on its
functions and to strengthen its staffing so that it can provide
continuing technical advice to policy-makers on agricultural investment
priorities in light of Malawi's agronomic potential and comparative
advantage. Strengthening of the extension system would assist the
Department of Agriculture in improving the technical competence of its
staff so that it is better able to disseminate appropriate advice on
available improved technology to farmers. The improvements in the
relevance and quality of agricultural research, extension and planning to
be induced by the proposed Project and the investment in agricultural



- 13 -
research are thus complementary and key to the attainment of the
production potential in the smallholder sector.
B.   Project Identification and Preparation
3.03     The proposed Project was identified by an IDA mission in January
1983 and preparation began in June of the same year. The Ministry of
Agriculture's Planning Division was responsible for preparing the Project
proposal. Bank staff assisted Government in the preparation work and
periodically reviewed progress. The Project proposals were submitted to
IDA and USAID in June 1984 for co-financing. The proposals were
reviewed and discussed with GOMIMOA by an IDA mission which visited
Malawi in June/July 1984 and the Project was appraised in
September/October 1984. Initially, the Project was being prepared along
the lines of earlier area-specific NRDP projects, but during preparation
it became clear that,given Government budgetary constraints, the more
pressing need was to consolidate and better maintain existing
agricultural investments. Although the basic framework for an effective
extension service exists in Malawi, it could be considerably strengthened
by improving the system's cost-effectiveness, extension planning and
evaluation, technical capacity and linkages with the research system.
The present Project focuses on consolidation and institutional
improvements in the agricultural planning and extension systems. The
Project preparation document was modified to reflect this change in
emphasis.
C.   Brief Description
3.04     The Project would support an institutional development process
aimed at: (i) improving MOA's analytical and long-term planning
capability; (ii) strengthening the national extension system through
development of more effective mechanisms for program priority setting,
resource allocation and financial management; and (iii) upgrading the
managerial, administrative and technical skills of DOA and PD staff. The
Project would comprise the following main features to be carried out over
five years:
(i)    Strengthening MOA's Planning Division so that it can
formulate a comprehensive long-term development strategy
for the agricuLtural sector and provide better technical
advice on policy formulation and agricultural investment
priorities. Specifically, the Project would provide
funds for consultant services for technical, financial
and management support to conduct studies and supplement
local expertise in PD; support a program of specialized
training for selected PD staff; provide salaries and
operating costs for up to six economist trainees; and provide
assistance for data processing, micro-computer facilities
and other office equipment.
(ii)   Strengthening DOA's capacity to plan, implement and
monitor the agricultural extension program. The Project
would:



- 14 -
(a)    strengthen the existing system of extension
planning and financial management and expenditure
control;
(b)    support a substantial program of local and
overseas training for extension staff to improve
technical, financing and administrative skills and
establish a training unit in MOA to implement the
above;
(c)    introduce a technical career stream and promotion
system for both professional and technical staff;
(d)    support production of improved technical and
training materials to allow better dissemination
and application of the results of agricultural
research to farmers;
(e)    support innovative approaches to agricultural
extension and information transfer in Mzuzu ADD;
provide credit to smallholder farmers in the Mzuzu
area for agricultural inputs to encourage their
adoption of improved technical recommendations;
Cf)    improve extension and research linkages through
extension staff participation in Adaptive Research
Teams based at ADD level, in research-extension
workshops, and in development and dissemination of
locally-specific technical recommendations.
D.   Detailed Features
Strengthening the Planning Division
3.05     An internationally recruited planning and management advisor
satisfactory to IDA would be recruited for the first 30 months of the
Project (see also para. 4.03). This individual would be the senior
policy and planning advisor to the Chief Projects Officer and PD staff-on,
inter alia, commodity pricing and the agricultural investment program
including ranking of project proposals against identified sector priori-
ties and available resources. The advisor would also, in collaboration
with the Chief Projects Officer and other PD staff, formulate a five-year
agricultural sector strategy. A review would be held by the Government and
IDA not later than February 28, 1988 to determine whether there is a need
to extend the advisor's contract. Since the duration of contract would
depend on the requirements of PD's work program, funds would be provided
under the Project for a 5-year term. In order to enable PD to carry out
its expanded work-program, the Project would also provide finances for a
systems AnAlyst to be employed by March 31, 1986 and a price policy specialist
to be employed periodically throughout the Project implementation according to a
work program mutually agreed upon by the Government and IDA. The Project would
support up to 6 additional positions to create a pool of trained professionals



- 15 -
to meet future exigencies likely to arise because of the countrywide
shortage of trained staff. Tne Project would also provide funds
for specialized training and about 12 person-months of short-term
technical assistance to conduct studies for monitoring and evaluation
and ongoing price policy analysis.
National Extension System Development
3.06     The Project would build on the substantial experience Malawi now
possesses in agricultural extension work. The block extension system (a
modified T and V approach) has shown good promise in its early
implementation but its effectiveness has been hampered by the range of
management, planning and other constraints noted in paras. 2.12-2.17.
Utilizing the technical packages available and linking closely to the
parallel, recently initiated research project, the proposed Project would
focus on providing a much strengthened overall planning and management
system. The detailed component descriptions which follow, therefore,
focus on these system reinforcements and do not attempt to describe in
detail field level work or agronomic features. The Project would support
the establishment of an extension program planning capacity within DOA to
assist DOA and ADD management in: (i) formulating a five year extension
strategy; (ii) developing extension program and supporting budget
proposals for annual submission to MOA and Treasury; (iii) analyzing
annual work plans and budgets prepared by ADDs to ensure that objectives,
targets and resource allocations are adequate and tie with priorities set
for the extension program; (iv) ensuring timely physical implementation
of the extension program and monitoring program performance; and
(v) conducting- specific ad hoc studies as needed to improve the quality
of the extension program. The Project would also provide support for a
financial advisor/controller to develop an extension programming and
budgeting system which would provide the framework for: (i) estimating,
on an annual basis, the minimum budget requirements for DOA and the
ADD's programs; (ii) setting operational guidelines for the elimination
of low-priority recurrent expenditures; (iii) evaluating the efficiency
of the existing investments in DOA and the ADDs; (iv) identifying
potential areas for cost savings; and (v) establishing a system for
achieving better resource utilization and cost effectiveness within DOA
and the ADDs.
3.07     Responsibility for extension program planning and related
functions described above would be assigned to the new position of a
Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer (DCAO) established under the Project.
The DCAO would be assisted by an Economist at P8 level from PD. The DCAO
would report to the CAO and would liaise closely with the MOA's Planning
and other departments. An extension management and planning advisor
reporting to the CAO would be recruited internationally for a period of
30 months to act as a senior extension and management advisor and to
assist DOA in carrying-out its expanded work program. Durine ne o-
tiations; agreement was reached that the extension management and
planning advisor would be in post by March 1, 1986. The Project would
finance staff training and operating costs required to design, implement
and monitor the performance of the improved extension system for both DOA
and the ADDs. In addition, the Project would finance vehicles and office
equipment.



- 16 -
3.08     To facilitate the introduction of the proposed changes in the
extension system, DOA would introduce annual workshops for ADD program
managers. These workshops would enable managers to assess annually the
results of their respective extension programs and to make modifications
in program targets and design in light of experience gained during the
year. The workshops would also be used to ensure that feedback from ADD
managers is taken into account in the formulation of extension strategy
at both the regional and national level. The cost of these workshops
would be borne by the Project. Workshops would also be held at the ADD
level with RDP and EPA managers to monitor extension program performance,
identify problem areas and propose practical solutions.  The annual
workshops would be conducted in May/June each year to enable managers to
incorporate workshop recommendations prior to finalizing the forthcoming
year's plans.
3.09     DOA and ADD Structure and Services Review.  The DOA structure
would be reviewed by the Civil Service Comnission and its recommendations
would be implemented during the first year of Project implementation.  It
is expected that the DOA would continue to be headed by a Chief
Agricultural Officer (CAO) and supported by two Deputy Chief Agricultural
Officers (DCAOs) with responsibility for planning and implementing the
extension program. The Chief Executive Officer position would be
upgraded to Senior Administrative Officer (SAO) and this individual would
have responsibility for supervising the administration, finance, and
personnel sections. This arrangement would transfer most of the routine
administrative functions from the CAO and DCAOs to the SAO allowing them
to concentrate more directly on the overall management planning and
implementation of the national extension program. Each technical branch
would be headed by an Assistant Chief Agricultural Officer (ACAO) who
would have managerial responsibilities and would report to the DCAO. The
ACAOs would be responsible for managing and supervising the SMSs' work
plans. Since most of the ACAOs would also function as SMSs themselves,
the Project would provide both technical and managerial training (see
below) to enable them to perform their functions more competently. The
Project would finance training and vehicles for SMSs, office equipment
and extension materials.
3.10     No major changes are expected to be made in the existing ADD
organizational structure, as it underwent a comprehensive review during
the NRDP Review of 1982 and was deemed to be satisfactory.
Strengthening of DOA's Technical Capacity and Introduction of a Career
Development Stream
3.11     Job Description.  The GOM and IDA agreed to use proceeds from
the National Rural Development Program Phase I (Credit 857-MAI) to
conduct a training needs analysis in April/May 1985 for all categories of
DOA staff (Annex I, Table T-3). This review would assist DOA in planning
a long-term training program. The job functions would be periodically
reviewed and updated by DOA and ADD managers with the assistance of a
training advisor in order to identify new training needs stemming from
staff turnover or additional work requirements resulting from changes in
the extensior. program.



- 17 -
3.12     Staff Incentives and Career Development.  Under the Project, GOM
would establish a professional career stream for extension SMSs which
would permit them to advance on the civil service ladder without moving
into the administrative/supervisory stream. In this way, extension SMSs
would have similar career development opportunities as same grade staff
in other departments of Government. This improvement in career
advancement prospects for DOA's most experienced SMSs should help attract
and retain qualified staff. There is, in addition, a need to review
advancement opportunities and incentives for TAs whose field-work is of
high quality. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by
March 31, 1987 the MOA, in consultation with IDA, would propose the
establishment and implementation of a career stream for SMSs and a
promotion system for extension professional and technical staff.
3.13     In-Service Training.  To strengthen the technical and managerial
capability of DOA staff, the Project would support establishment of a
training unit in MOA which would be responsible for consolidating the
ongoing training activities and organizing and implementing a long-term
training program. This long-term program would be comprised of degree
and non-degree training and would consist of the following:
(i)    Twenty fellowships for postgraduate training at M.Sc.
level and 34 fellowships at diploma or specialization
level for selected managers and SMSs providing them with
the skills and expertise needed to improve the overall
performance of the extension program;
(ii)   Short-term fellowships in non-degree programs for
selected senior staff in their field of competence.
(iii)  In-country courses and workshops for managers and
technical staff designed to:
(a)    improve management skills in planning, budgeting
and administration of extension programs; the
Project would provide a total of 1,291
person-weeks of training for DOA, ADD program and
assistant managers, project and development
officers and 320 person/weeks of training for ADD
financial controllers and their assistants;
(b)    provide field extension staff and SMSs with
specialized technical knowledge and job specific
skills needed to disseminate technical
recommendations to enable farmers to adopt new and
improved technologies. A total of 2,118
person-weeks of technical training in general
crops, horticulture, livestock, land husbandry,
and agro-forestry would be provided for SMSs and
adaptive research teams and a total of 7,800
persons/weeks of technical training in specific
matters to field extension workers (Annex 1,
Table T-2);



- 18 -
(c)    upgrade the ability of training officers and
selected extension staff to plan, design, conduct
and evaluate training activities for both
extension staff and farmers by providing a total
of 1,328 person/weeks of training.
3.14     All management training will be financed by IDA and most of the
technical agricultural training will be financed by USAID. While
indicative figures have been developed both for the number of trainees
and the corresponding costs, in practice, these estimates and the
distribution of costs between IDA and USAID will be determined on the
basis of the annual training plans, mutually agreed upon by the
Government, IDA and USAID using the agreed shares and areas of emphasis.
Extension Materials Development
3.15      Agricultural Communications Branch.  The project would provide support,
under USAID financing,for the Agricultural Communications Branch (ACB) and the
Audio-Visual Sections in the ADDs to produce a wide range of training and
teaching materials for use by extension staff. It would also support
production of radio programs and film materials suitable for presentation
to groups of farmers. The extension staff would be supplied with updated
Agricultural Handbooks prepared by the Commodity Research Teams (CRTs) of
DAR in collaboration with the extension SMSs which would be produced by
EAB. The EAB would also be expected to produce teaching manuals and
audio-visual materials to assist the extension staff in disseminating
technical recommendations generated by agricultural research. It would,
in addition, hold periodic workshops for SMSs and TAs on how to use these
materials. Extension field staff would be supplied, as needed, with
technical circulars prepared by SMSs or CRTs on special topics of
relevance which would enhance their technical competence and improve work
performance.
3.16     Technical material containing area-specific recommendations
would be prepared jointly by the SMSs and the Adaptive Research Teams
(ARTs) at the ADD level and would be updated periodically. The
Audio-Visual Aid Units would also prepare specific audio-visual materials
to be used by ADD staff and would coordinate the work of mobile units for
presentation of films, slides and puppet shows to groups of farmers.
Under USAID financing, the Project would support long and short-term
technical assistance, training of staff, production and acquisition of
films and slides, printing material, equipment and spare parts and
vehicles for both ACB and Audio-Visual Aid Units at the ADDs.
Strengthening Extension Services in Mzuzu ADD
3.17     Extension Service.  Since the Project would involve significant
improvement in the present agricultural extension system with potentially
far-reaching implications for ADDs, it would be reasonable to phase
implementation to minimize abrupt changes and unnecessary disruptions in
the current system. The Mzuzu ADD, as the second largest ADD and
representative of most of the country's agricultural areas, has been



- 19 -
selected as first phase of a national program to improve the extension
service. Different types of mass media and approaches to information
aad technology transfer would be tested under the Project.
3.18     Specifically, the Project would support a pilot mass
communication scheme to identify more cost effective methods of
dessiminating technical information to greaternumbers of men and women
farmers. The high rate of illiteracy among adults in Malawi (estimated
to be 47Z for those 15 years and older, but varying considerably between
districts and between men and women) means that visual presentation is
key to reaching the rural population. The Project would cover the costs
directly attributable to this pilot scheme. Under USAID, the Project will
also provide funds for an internationally recruited agricultural
communication specialist who would provide guidance in designing,
implementing and evaluating the mass communication scheme. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that DOA would introduce a mass communication
scheme in the Mzuzu ADD not later than October 31, 1986 and furnish IDA
with annual reports on progress made in its implementation. Such a scheme
would be tested over a three year period to allow DOA to evaluate the
results over several planting seasons before extending it to other ADDs.
Under the Project, the "Block Extension System" would be improved and would
expand its outreach,particularly to women. Farm home assistants (given
their small number) would be provided with motor-scooters to allow them
to cover a wider area and in this way, increase their contacts with women
farmers. The Project would also finance staff houses, some offices,
office furniture, marketing sheds, equipment, vehicles, the
establishment and operating costs of selected demonstrations (and seeds
multiplication by farmers' clubs 8/), and staff training.
3.19     Credit.  Credit is increasingly important as the cost of inputs
escalates and more advanced farming methods require larger cash outlays.
The credit financed under the Project is limited to areas in the Mzuzu ADD
where the Bank has previously financed infrastructure and where credit is
needed to realize the full benefits of this investment and to new areas in the
Mzuzu ADD where credit is needed to enable farmers to adopt new or improved
technology.
3.20     Seasonal credit for purchased inputs would be provided to those
farmers who are members of credit groups/clubs in the Kzuzu ADD, and who
are judged by extension and credit staff to have performed well in the
past, and who are interested in adopting improved farming practices and
have good potential for increased production of groundnuts, beans,
8/   As the quality and quantity of confectionary nuts (an important crop
in the Project area with good export prospects), has declined over
the last decade, due,inter alia,to poor husbandry standards and a
general decline in seed quality, the Project would initiate a small
seed multiplication scheme in the Mzuzu ADD under the direction of a
seed multiplication specialist (TOR, Annex III [DI) to introduce
higher yielding improved varieties.



- 20 -
tobacco, maize and cotton. Loans would be provided for the purchase of
seasonal inputs, i.e. fertilizer seeds and other chemicals. The total
funding requirements for incremental seasonal credit over the Project
period are estimated at US$ 3.1 million. Funds for seasonal credit are
relatively modest, since it is intended that credit to farmers would be
in the nature of a pilot project. In the event that planned improvements
in the present agricultural extension system in Nzuzu are substantially
realized, additional funds (by way of physical contingency) are provided
to supplement resources specifically allocated to credit. The current
annual effective interest rate is about 13.5 percent. However, during
Project implementation and subsequent to the study (para 3.21), the
interest rate structure would be reviewed and adjusted to reflect cost
of credit administration and cost of funds.
3.21      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would
carry out a study of the smallholder credit systems, including the adequacy
of present interest rate structure and credit administration. Terms of
reference for the study would be agreed upon between the Government and
IDA by September 30, 1985. Results of the study would be submitted to
IDA for review and comment not later than March 31, 1986. By January 1,
1987, GOM would implement the new lending structure throughout the ADDs
including appropriate terms and conditions of the sub-loans to farmers.
Extension - Research Linkages
3.22      Improvement of extension and research linkages would be fostered
through the implementation of the National Agricultural Research Project
(NARP) and the proposed investment. Adaptive Research Teams (ARTs) would
be established under the NARP in all ADDs and would combine research and
extension staff in a program of farming systems research and problem-
solving, on-farm trials and demonstrations. The intended result of the
program would be the generation of locally-specific production recommenda-
tions to be used by the ADD extension services. These would include,
inter alia, development of more suitable recommendations for women farmers,
many of whom are heads of rural households. The Commodity Research Teams
(CRTs) and the extension SMSs would play a critical support function to
ADD staff with regard to both the local research program and technical
recommendations to farmers. USAID would finance establishment of the
eight ARTs in the ADDs. IDA would provide funds for vehicles for those
ARTs established during Project implementation.
E. Project Cost Estimates and Financing
3.23      The total costs of the proposed Project including all capital
and recurrent costs and contingencies is estimated at MK 36.4 m (US$ 20.2 m
equivalent) of which MK 27.6 m (US$ 15.3 m) or 76% is foreign



- 21 -
exchange. Taxes and duties are negligible. A Project cost snmary appears
in Table 3.1 below:
*TZK EUU   M NM= mr MXT
mar or ur
(RUM  S)         IKi WSO             Z Tot
- --             SI Fotim  kw
LCIIE FO,uig  Tota  Loca VOrui*  TOWa  Eidiui  CotSU
For i                  mm        m  - T
& fl.Imo z.i                         .* 30.3 3,539.J  31.1 1.d3. 2,05.2    57   14
3. InTI   BIlI SSTER anEL.1ff
311Wi.. 1151513P_m             19s4.0 .1710,13.5 I.M.l 4,53.7 5,P635.1  1    0
iCa3im CUCA*U 3                   57.2 2451.5 2,9.7  31.6 134.2 1.615.7    93   11
lTIM  SEAoI PI                    374.5  2U.6  331.0  2.1  141.4  167.2  3   1
~ to                            1g13.4 3W27J 0511.1 1W57.5 1,793.7 23.2    64   20
S Tam                              7.1 2PZ13 3,5.4   3.4 1,418.5 1,16.9    74   14
uI I ENITEW OI S 5T15 WAI5'DT    4970.2 17MO77M 2147 2449.6 9.487.512P1V.0    73 6
NlW IXIE cIS7                      5.2 25117.8 25456.0 3#015.7 119176.5 14192.2   7n  too
1ea1 Cmu'nw.ius                    MA.0 1,9"7.4 2i4WA.4  329.4 1,41.9 1,461.3    74   10
Fi ejgusmfj                      2,62.7 ,5I-.S 1162.2 1.45.9 303XJ 4534.5    6U   32
loTal S5CT CDII                    8731.? 27406.7 3iIJ311.5 4.1M.0 of.W.0 929l1.  76  142
3.24      Project baseline costs have been estimated oan the basis of
September 1984 prices and have been updated to reflect expected prices as
of nagotiations. Physical contingencies boe beqnaucluded at 15S for.
civil works and 102 for vehicles and equipmnt and 22% for seasonal credit
(para.3.20).  Foreign price contingencies have teen calculated assuming
international inflation rates of 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and 8% for 1987-1990.
Local price contingencies have been included at 12% for 1985, 11% for 1986,
10% for 1987 and 9% thereafter except on local staff salaries and wages which
have been adopted at the midpoints on the respective civil service scale.
3.25      Financing of Project costs would be shared in the proportions.
and amounts summarized in Table 3.2 below. Government is planning
co-financins with USAID. USAID's financig-, as part of its combined
funding for a National Agricultural Research and Extension Projects would
be committed as of July 1985. USAID's contribution, of the order
US$ 6.2 m in grant funding on a parallel basis, would support technicaL
assistance and training (Annex I Table T-2).  MA's contribution, of the
on    _ sm l we ""o_[ mPAI
no"MML  u.s. M r FM       
rM     i Dnmn m       nee z7 IF
_bmt ZImmmt  Z  MML Z -Mt  Z
A. ft1A11i DWIS=I                 2P56.0 .4      -   -  370.5 12.6 2z3.5 14.4
3. 31n1  0C19 SYSTEM KWLOPIDT
mITim ErmaI=IIO PFll             3,443.7 45.1 3,316.2 5.3  344.1 4.5 79.630 37.1
a1tLTnA OwUCATI5n                    -  - 2I151.9 lO.O    -  - 24151.9 10.7
.4TN FSENE SE1                       -  -   W7.4 92.3  18.4 7.2  2358 1.3
PM AN                            2,470.6 5P.9  -   - 1,4.3 40.1 4127.9 20.4
SUNK CWIT                        3.075.O 100.0  -   -     -  - 3,075.0 15.2
5ft-Tol M1113. EXIBISION S5STENI IEWIWENT  9,94.3 52.1 6,23.5 36.1 2W019 11.7 1724.6 A5.4
Total Digurnbnt                   11562.3 57.3 6231.5 31.9 2390.3 11.l 20,10.1 100.0
m        m    -   mm _ m 



- 22 -
of US$ 11:6 m would finance the balance of training, technical
assistance for extension programming, financial management and
agricultural sector planning, and also civil works, equipment, furniture
and vehicles. Government would provide about US$ 2.4 million or about
12 of Project costs for the balance of civil works, almost all vehicle
operating costs, building maintenance and repair costs and incremental
salaries.
F.   Procurement
3.26     Project procurement would be in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines and is summarized below:
(In US$ m)
Project Element                Procurement Method              Total
ICB      LCB      Other       N.A.     Cost
Civil Works                      2.0                             2.0
(1.8)                           (1.8)
Vehicles, Equipment    0.9                 0.8*                  1.7
and Furniture       (0.9)               (0.1)                 (1.0)
Training                                   4.4*                  4.4
(2.9)                 (2.9)
Technical Assistance                       6.1*                  6.1
(2.8)                (4.2)
Credit                                                 3.1       3.1
(3.1)     (3.1)
Operating Costs                                        2.9*      2.9
(0.0)     (0.0)
TOTALS         0.9       2.0      11.3         6.0      20.2
(0.9)    (1.8)      (5.8)      (3-1)    (11.6)
l/   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
*    Includes amounts for items financed by USAID and procured under its
own guidelines.
3.27     All civil works would be procured through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) as they consist of small scattered works which would not
attract international bidders. There are, however, numerous local
contractors capable of executing the required smaller works. In the case
of staff houses and offices, Mzuzu ADD management would be assisted by
the GOM - Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) in drawing up
specifications, preparing bid documents, evaluating bids and supervising
the construction program. Procurement of marketing depots would be
handled by ADMARC. In cases where LCB is not feasible, construction,
with IDA approval, would be done through force account of MOWS.



- 23 -
3.28     Procurement of all vehicles, furniture, equipment and spare
parts would be bulked to the extent feasible and orders of US$ 100,000 or
more would be procured through International Competitive Bidding from
suppliers who maintain or agree to maintain adequate inventory of spare
parts and after-sales service in Malawi. Miscellaneous small amounts of
equipment and furniture would be purchased in lots of less than
US$ 25,000 and procured through prudent shopping with at least three
price quotations or through the Central Government Controller of Stores
Department up to an aggregate of US$ 100,000 of such purchases. Training
would be at selected overseas and local institutions which meet the
training requirements. Technical assistance (para. 4.08), funded by
the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance with IBRD Guidelines.
Credit funds would be borrowed by smallholders to purchase fertilizers
and other inputs from ADMARC for which procurement options do not apply.
C.   Disbursements
3.29     A schedule of the expected pattern of disbursements over
5.5 years is shown in Annex II, Table T-10. This disbursement schedule
is based on the country disbursement profile related to Malawi
agricultural area development projects which shows actual disbursement at
98 percent at PY6, but relatively lower rates (14 percent at mid-PY2 and
36 percent in mid-PY3) earlier in the project period. In preparing the
present Project disbursement schedule, a slightly faster disbursement
rate (17 percent at mid-PY2 and 61 percent at mid-PY3), is expected in
view of the implementation of the training component and the civil works
component. The latter would be executed by private contractor, as
against traditional construction by force account.
3.30     Proceeds from the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
90% of expenditures for civil works; 100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures for vehicles, furniture and equipment; and 100% of
expenditures for training, technical assistance and credit.
Disbursements against contracts or purchase orders of less than
US$ 20,000 equivalent and for expenditures for credit would be supported
by Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), signed by the managers of the
specific components and the Financial Coordinator of NRDP in MOA. Full
supporting documentation in respect of such SOEs would be retained by the
borrower and made available for inspection by IDA during normal project
supervision. All other disbursement would be made against full
documentation. To expedite disbursements, a Special Account (Revolving
Fund) with an initial deposit of US$ 0.5 million would be established
with the Reserve Bank of Malawi or at another location satisfactory
to IDA. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the opening
of the Special Account would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 6.02 Iii).
H.   Accounts and Audits
3.31     Financial records would be maintained at MOA in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect the operations and the financial
position of the Project. Credit fund accounts, which would operate as a



- 24 -
revolving fund, would be maintained and audited separately. Statements
of expenditures would be separately recorded and would be subject to
periodic verification and audit by the Auditor-General of GOM. The
accounts would be audited by the Auditor-General or by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The annual audit of Project accounts would
include a specific audit of SOEs. Certified copies of the annual audited
accounts and the auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within six
months following the end of the fiscal year. Assurances to this end were
obtained at negotiations.
I. Government Cash Flow
3.32     Annex II, Table T-lOa shows the Government's Project related
cash-flow over a period of ten years. Receipts would consist of proceeds
of the USAID grant and IDA credit while expenditures would include all
Project capital and operating costs. Revenues from indirect taxes and
duties on construction material, vehicles and equipment are negligible
and have not been calculated. It is unlikely that the Project would
generate additional Government revenues as the income of the primary
beneficiaries (smallholders) is far below the taxable level. The
cumulative net cash flow to the Government would range from a deficit of
MK2.7 million (US$1.5 million) to MK15.3 million (US$8.5 million) over
the ten year period. From the sixth year onwards, the recurrent costs
net of capital replacements are expected to stabilize through the
remainder of the Project period at around Mk2.0 million (US$1.1 million)
per annum in constant 89/90 prices.
3.33     Inadequate provision of recurrent finance for existing
agricultural development projects is a growing problem. DOA's recurrent
finance allocation for FY1984/85 totals nearly MK13.6 m (MK12.0 m in
FY1983/84) and accounts for the largest share (56%) of the MOA recurrent
budget. This percentage share has remained fairly constant since FY1979/80.
Between FY1979/80-FY1983/84, DOA's recurrent budget allocation recorded
average real growth of 8% per annum reflecting the very rapid increase
in the recruitment of established staff positions to meet the increasing
demand for agricultural services.   The budgeted increase in recurrent
finance for DOA in FY1984/85, however, is only 1% in real terms, and,
increasingly, there is evidence of deterioration in the delivery of
essential services due to lack of funds.   For instance, the recurrent
departmental charges to personal emoluments ratio for DOA has shown
a steady decline from a high of 1.4 in FY1981/82 to 0.8 in the current
fiscal year (compared to 1.1 for MOA as a whole) indicating that
recurrent expenditures are becoming disproportionately biased toward
wages and DOA personnel are being supplied with fewer and fewer materials
and supporting services with which to work. Compounding the problem, DOA
has not devised criteria for phasing out non-essential services at
project completion and a full complement of project staff and vehicles
are maintained at a time when this level of support is beyond the
Government's means.
3.34     The Project supports several measures to address these problems
including establishment of operational guidelines for elimination of low



- 25 -
priority recurrent expenditures and introduction of a planning and
budgeting system to ensure that scarce resources are rationed according
to the relative priorities of contending programs. Additionally, to
ensure that the Project's incremental recurrent cost requirements are
built into the recurrent budget, the Project provides for the Government
to finance almost all incremental Project operating costs over the five
year implementation period.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     Overall responsibility for Project implementation would be with
the Principal Secretary for Agriculture (PS). The PS would have full
responsibility for establishing organizational linkages and coordinating
programs to ensure that Project objectives are met. To assist in this
effort, the Project would establish an MOA Program Steering Committee. This
Committee would be chaired by the Principal Secretary (MOA) and would
include as full time members the Controllers of Agricultural
Se!vices-NRDP and Institutions, the Chief Agricultural Research Officer,
the Chief Agricultural Extension Officer, the Chief Projects Officer, the
Chief Veterinary Officer, the Chief Accountant and a representative from
the Ministry of Finance. When possible, IDA/USAID Project review
missions will be scheduled to coincide with the Steering Committee
meeting so that IDA/USAID representatives can be present as observers.
The Committee would be established by March 1, 1986. Agreement to this
effect was reached during negotiations. The Steering Committee will
have the following responsibilities:
(a)    Set benchmarks for determining program progress and
monitor program progress accordingly;
(b)    Review, discuss and make recommendations concerning any
policy level issues or concerns which substantially
impact the Project;
(c)    Monitor and ensure coordination of program implementation
between the donors and among the various Government
departments concerned;
(d)    Identify the problems experienced during the Project execution
and make changes, if necessary in the Project implementation
procedures to ensure successfui implementation of the Project.
Illustrative tasks of the Steering Committee include:
-      review major contracting activities including technical
assistance;
-      review housing, vehicle and equipment procurement plans;
-      approve annual training plans and sources of financing;
-      review Project personnel levels;
-      monitor performance of contracted institutions or
individuals.



- 26 -
B. Strengthening the Planning Division
4.02     The Planning Division, assisted by the planning and management
advisor, would be required to review PD's overall functions and determine
whether modifications are required for the Division to achieve its
objectives. The results of this review would be examined by MOA, the
Chief Economist in the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC),and
IDA. During negotiations,agreement was reached that a staff recruitment
program based on the approved recommendations of the review add the Division's
overall functions and manpower requirements would be developed and
submitted to OPC and IDA for comments by September 30, 1986.
4.03     The PD would develop detailed annual work plans and budgets
which would be submitted to IDA by September 30 of each year for review
and comment. Agreement was reached at negotiations that an
internationally recruited planning and management advisor satisfactory to
IDA would be in post not later than April 30, 1986. A five-year plan
would be formulated for the PD which would include, inter alia, an
agricultural sector strategy statement, major studies to be conducted,
staff and training as needed, and budgetary requirements. This plan would be
completed and forwarded to IDA by July 1, 1987 for comments. Assessment
of the job-specifiz training requirements for each staff member would be
the responsibility of the Chief Projects Officer in consultation with the
training advisor.  Based on this assessment, a dc-ailed training program,
time schedule, and estimate of the resources required would be prepared.
C. National E:tension System Development
4.04     Management and Systemtv Improvement.  Based on agreement reached
in consultation with IDA, DOA,with the assistance of the financial
advisor/controller, would be responsible for implementing the new program
and budgeting system. The system would initially be implemented in the
Mzuzu ADD, but would be replicaLted-in the other ADDs later. The
financial advisor/controller wcould assist in the introduction and testing
of the system in the Mzuzu ADD and would train staff at both the DOA and
ADD levels to use new procedures.  The financial advisor/controller's terms-of
reference would also include assistance to improve MOA's existing
programming and budgeting system. Agreement was reacied at negotiations
that an internationally recruited finaazial advisor/controller,
satisfactory to IDA, would be in post by July 1, 1986.
4.05     The planning and implementation of the improved annual extension
planning and budgeting system would be implemented first (by April 30, 1987)
in Mzuzu ADD and thereafter, once approv~ed by the MOA, in the other ADDs.
It would include the following phases: (i) formulation of annual work
plans consistent with extension priorities and resource availability;
(ii) implementation of the work plans and subsequent review; (iii)
monitoring of performance and budgetary expenditures; and (iv) data
collection to assess the impact and effectiveness of the extension
program at the farmer's level.   Annual extension work plans contain-
ing detailed descriptions of proposed work to be undertaken and
supporting budgets would be prepared for DOA and the Mzuzu ADD and wolLd



- 27 -
be submitted to IDA for comments by September 30 of each year. Agreement
to this end was reached at negotiations. The five year extension
strategy plan (para. 3.06) would be reviewed periodically by DOA, IDA and
USAID to assess progress made and adjustments needed. Development of the
plan would take about two years and would be submitted _ IDA by
July 1, 1987.
4.06     In-service Training.  The training program would be implemented
by the Training Unit established in the office of the Controller of
Agricultural Services-Institutions. The Unit would be headed by a
Malawian training officer at P5 level. The officer would be assisted by
two Malawian traiiaing specialists and a USAID funded training advisor and
training specialist. The Training Unit would be headed by a Training
Advisory Committee representing DOA, DAR, PD, and DAHI. The Committee
would meet on a regular basis and would formulate and interpret MOA
training policy, determine priority training needs within the MOA,
approve candidates proposed for overseas long-term training,and review
annual work plans and training evaluation reports.
4.07     The Training Unit would be responsible for (i) establishing
procedures and criteria for determining overall training needs,
(ii) preparing criteria for selecting training programs and candidates,
Ciii) developing procedures for evaluating the training program,
(iv) identifying traiuing instructors and suitable training institutions
and (v) organizing a record-keeping system for trainees. A cadre of
instructors would be trained by the Training Unit in teaching techniques
and methods. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the training
advisor would be in post by September 30, 1985. The terms of reference
for the training advisor would include responsibility for assisting in the
development and implementation of a long-range training program for all
technical and professional staff within MOA. At negotiations, agreement
was reached that the establishment of the Training Unit would be a
condition for credit effectiveness.
D. Technical Assistance
4.08     The Project would provide 360 person-niorths of long-term and 83
person-months of short-term technical assistance t. - .VA. About 180
person-months of long-term and 12 person-months of short-term technical
assistance would be financed by IDA; the remaining amount would be
financed by USA'D. Provision of funds needed to bring candidates to
Malawi for interviews and briefings would be drawn from Project funds.
E. Implementation Schedule
4.09     The Project execution period would be February 1986 to
October 1991 (Chart C-4). It is expected that staff and technical
assistance recruitment would occur during the first year of Project
implementation. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and civil works would
be done during the second year of Project implementation.



- 28 -
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10     The Karonga-Chitipa Project (Credit 1183-MAI) proposals to
strengthen the Planning Division's ability to coordinate and direct the
monitoring and evaluation of rural development programs within ADDs have
not been successfully implemented. Moreover, the usefulness of the data
now being generated is under question. A major review of the current
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system is, therefore, proposed to
identify problems and make practical recommendations for improved
results. In this connection, the GOM is presently recruiting
internationally an evaluation advisor to assist in organizing the M&E
Unit within the Planning Division. Additional staff to strengthen the
Unit would be provided under the Project to enable the Planning Division
to more rigorously analyze and use available data ,o help in project
preparation, project completion reports and cross-project analyses. The
Project, in addition, would provide short-term technical assistance for
ad hoc studies on the impact and effectiveness of NRDP projects at the
smallholder farmer level.
G. Environmental Impact
4.11     The Project, through its extension and training components,
would have a generally favorable impact on the environment. The closer
research extension linkages fostered under the Project would generate
extension recommendations for specific problems including soil
management, water conservation and agroforestry development. In the
Mzuzu ADD, the Project would support incremental tobacco production, but
this would primarily be the sunr-air cured types, with minimal incremental
demands made on the fuel wood resources. Pesticides used under the
Project are limited to small amounts of insecticides utilized for crops
such as tobacco and cotton.
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Justification
5.01     Both the Agricultural Diversification Study (July 1984) and the
NRDP Review (June 1982) have pointed out that improvements in the
relevance and qual-ty of agricultural research will be critical to
developing suitable commodities for import substitution, export growth
and expansicn of smallholder output generally. These studies also
recognize, however, that the impact of research and other policies,such
as pricing and marketing, would be limited unless the Government can
organize a more efficient extension delivery system to disseminate
research findings and to promote crop diversification.
5.02     The NRDP, since its inception, has put in place a rural
infrastructure with complementary staffing and provided farmers with
increasingly available inputs, agricultural credit, improved communi-
cations, specialist advice and close coverage of field extension workers.
The 1982 NRDP Review concluded that although the basic framework for an



- 29 -
effective extensior. system exists in. Malawi, a number of constraints
remain (paras. 2.12-2.17). Analysis of budgetary allocations for NRDP as
a whole show that the overall budget for the program would show only
modest real increases over the medium term. Difficulties have already
been encountered in the maintenance and operation of some facilities and
structures due to inadequate provision of recurrent funds (para. 3.33).
The proposed Project, building on the experience of NRDP, would address
the major technical, financial and institutional constraints hindering
development of an effective extension delivery system.
B. Benefits
5.03     Quantification of the benefits in an extension and planning
project pose certain difficulties. It is impossible, for instance, to
distinguish potential returns from complementary investments in
infrastructure, training, research or the catalytic effect of other
factors such as relative crop prices availability and cost of inputs,
credit, etc. These difficulties notwithstanding, economic gains under
the proposed Project are expected from (i) improved efficiencies
in agricultural sector planning and extension planning and budgeting
and (ii) increases in agricultural production and productivity.
Specifically, the Project would upgrade the managerial and technical
capacity in both DOA and PD and improve critical institutional
linkages between research and the extension service. Under the
Project, routine planning ard evaluation exercises would be
instituted to improve cost effectiveness in ongoing extension programs
and to achieve greater efficiency with existing staff and resources. The
Project would, in addition, play an important role in improving DOA's
technical capacity including an improved career stream for specialist
staff. It would also provide assistance to the Planning Division in
formulating a national agricultural sector strategy, analyzing crop price
policies and forecasting national input supply requirements.
5.04     Under the Project, Mzuzu ADD has been selected as the first
stage of a national program for implementing improvements in the
extension planning and financial management systems introduced under the
Project. About 36,000 smallholder farm families are expected to
participate in the block extension system and would benefit from wider
availability of marketing facilities, credit,and improved seeds (a seed
production scheme for groundnuts and beans on selected blocks or farmers'
club gardens will be supported under the Project). Improved yields and
production increases for maize and other major smallholder crops in the
Mzuzu area are expected from farmer adoption of technical credit
packages which call for use of (i) quality seed of improved varieties,
(ii) adequate amounts of fertilizer and (iii) more effective crop
husbandry practices'particularly with regard to plant densities, weeding
and fertilizer u3e (Annex IV Tables 11-14). Longer-term, the results
from applied and adaptive research generated under the IDA/USAID financed
National Agricultural Research Project should provide technical
recommendations more tailored to local agronomic and economic
conditions. The improved quality of technical support provided by the



- 30 -
Subject Matter Specialist is also expected to have a positive impact on
production. In addition, under the block extension system, farmers would
participate in neriodic training organized by extension staff to improve
their technical competence in specific areas. The Project would also
test two mass communication schemes in the Mzuzu area with the objective
of finding ways to reach greater number of men and women farmers with
fewer extension staff.
C. Methodology and General Assumptions
5.05     The Project, despite its largely institution building focus,
does, with Mzuzu ADD, include a productive component for which the
benefits may be readily valued. To this extent, the Project, does lend
itself to a more conventional economic analysis and estimate of economic
rate of return, provided certain assumptions regarding cost allocation are
accepted.
5.06     An economic rate of return has been calculated for the directly
productive components of the Project with incremental production in the
Mzuzu extension area of maize, groundnuts, tobacco, cotton, wheat and
rice being the major quantifiable economic benefits. No attempt has been
made to quantify the benefits from the Project's extension and planning
components. It is reasoned that since the Project encompasses the entire
country, yield and production increases expected from farmer use of
-'extended" technical packages will vary considerably according to crop,
agro-ecological zone and level of farmer. As a result, both the adoption
rates for the various recommended practices and the Project's expected
benefits will be difficult to forecast reliably. However, in order to
provide further justification for the Project, an indicative breakeven
analysis has been conducted for the planning and extension components,
and is discussed in para. 5.10.
5.07     Discussed below are the assumptions made with regard to
incremental benefit and cost allocations.
(i)    The weighted average parity price has been applied to
incremental maize representing Malawi's trading position
in this commodity9/.  Incremental production of maize,
groundnuts, tobacco, cotton and rice would be exported;
the economic farmgate value of these commodities is
based on their export parity prices. Wheat is an
imported commodity and has been valued at its import
parity price. At full development (1993), annual
incremental crop production attributable to the Project
would be valued at MK4.1 million.
9/   Although the export market for maize is currently rather buoyant,
this is a short-run phenomenon created by drought in neighboring
countries. All nearby countries have maize self-sufficiency
objectives and some previously have been maize exporters. Thus, in
the long run, the nearby export markets are unlikely to exist.



- 31 -
(ii)   all prices are in constant mid-year 1985 prices, except
for those of civil works, which were increased *n real
terms over the Project period to take account of their
rising real costs;
(iii)  all costs include physical contingencies, where
appropriate, and are net of identifiable taxes;
(iv)   the shadow price of foreign exchange was assumed to equal
the nominal price as the official exchange rate is
considered to reflect its appropriate value;
(v)    the shadow wages of unskilled labor and incremental
on-farm labor have been priced at MKO.50 per manday.
Alternative employment opportunities vary throughout the
area, and this opportunity cost is assumed as an average
for the areas affected by the Project activities.
5.08     On the basis of the above assumptions, the economic rate of
return for the directly productive component of the Project
(incorporating 24% of Projects costs) was estimated at 22 percent. This
relatively high rate of return stems from the consolidation and
4nstitution building characteristics of the Project which would lead to
more efficient utilization of existing staff and infrastructure largely
put in place under previous NRDP investments. The additional expenditure
required to achieve more optimal utilization of existing staff and
infrastructure is relatively low compared to the potential benefits to be
derived.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.09     Assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent per annum,
a 55% increase in costs or 36% reduction in Project output would be
required to render the investment unacceptable. Delayed implementation
by one year would reduce its economic rate of return to ab-i.t 19 percent.
5.10     Breakeven analysis provides further economic justitUcation for
the Project. For the proposed additional expenditures on planning and
extension activities to yield a 12 percent economic rate of return, net
smallholder GDP would have to register an average annual increase of less
than 0.1% per annum over the next twenty years. Considering that
smallholder production has recorded average annual growth of 4.3 percent
since 1980, it is not unreasonable to assume that the proposed investment
which involves putting into place better arrangements for agricultural
planning, extension and financial management would induce additional
growth of 0.1% per annum and the additional expenditures would,
therefore, appear to be economically sound.



- 32 -
D.   Risks
5.11     The major risks facing the Project are the following:
Inadequate local budgetary support, particularly provision of
funds for operating costs. Inadequate provision of recurrent finance not
only reduces potential returns from existing agricultural investments,
but also puts at risk the viability of future investments by jeopardizing
expected output. The GOM under SAL I and II is committed to reviewing on
an on-going basis t1he recurrent budget allocations to MOA to ensure that
they are adequate. The share of recurrent expenditure going to
agriculture has increased during the last decade but there is still
evidence of underfunding in key areas (e.g., vehicle operating costs).
The proposed Project would support a planning and budgeting system which
would provide the framework for achieving better resource utilization and
cost effectiveness within DOA and the ADDS. To ensure that the present
Project's recurrent cost requirements are built into the recurrent
budget, the Project provides for the Government to finance almost all
Project incremental operating costs starting in Project year 1 and
continuing throughout the Project implementation period.
5.12     Ineffective Management.  The Project will introduce and support
new ways of managing extension staff and financial resources and new
methods of disseminating extension advice and setting program
priorities. These changes are significant and will involve considerable
redirecting of the extension system. Effective management becomes
crucial since it is important that the proposed changes be introduced in
a planned manner. The Project will provide DOA and PD with the
consultancy services and technical assistance required to train the
relatively large number of inexperienced staff. In this connection, the
Project will provide for the timely recruitment of technical and
managerial expertise with sufficient overlap with Malawian counterparts.
5.13     Farmer adoption rate of improved technical packages and
anticipated increases in crop yields and production could be lower than
forecast. Producer prices could provide insufficient incentives to take
up improved packages and unfavorable weather could depress yields. These
potential difficulties are exacerbated by Malawi's external transport
system which increases the cost of inputs while lowering the price of
exports. Major increases in production will require timely availability
of fertilizer and other chemicals and, while xtension can make their use
more efficient, it cannot obviate the need for them. The Fertilizer Fund
and procurement management system funded under the IFAD/IDA fertilizer
project has helped reduce substantially the risk of fertilizer not being
available. The on-going dialogue, associated with Malawi's Structural
Adjustment Program, helps reduce the risk of inappropriate prices.
5.14     Crop Marketing.  No problems are anticipated in marketing any of
the Project's commodities. ADMARC is responsible for buying surplus
smallholder produce, including cash crops as well as surplus food crops.Farmers
participating in the Project would sell all incremental production of
groundnuts, cotton,and tobacco, beyond subsistence requirements, to
ADMARC for sale mostly in the export market. ADMARC would continue to
offer guaranteed minimum prices for all crops.



- 33 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
ti)    The internationally recruited planning and management
advisor for PD, satisfactory to IDA,would be in post not
later than April 30, 1986. A review would be held by
the Government and IDA not later-than February 28, 1988
to determine whether there is a need to extend the contract.
(para. 3.05);
(ii)    International recruitment of systems analyst by March 31, 1986
and periodically a pricing policy specialist for PD, both
~satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.05);
(iii)   The internationally recruited extension management and
planning advisor would be in post by March 1, 1986
(para. 3.07);
(iv)   GOM would propose the establishment of a career stream
for Subject Matter Specialists, and introduction of a
promotion system for professional and technical staff, in
consultation with IDA by March 31, 1987 (para. 3.12).
(v)    DOA would implement a mass communication scheme in MNuzu
ADD not later than October 31, 1986. Such a scheme would
be tested over a period of three years and DOA shall
furnish IDA with an annual report on the progress of its
implementation (para. 3.18);
(vi)   GOM would carry out a study of the smallholder credit
systems, including the adequacy of present interest rate
structure and credit administration, to be completed and
submitted to IDA for review and comments not later than
March 31, 1986 (para. 3.21);
(vii)   GOM would implement a new lending structure, including
appropriate terms and conditions of sub-loans to farmers,
arising out of the study and consultation with IDA by
January 1, 1987 (para. 3.21);
viii)  , Certified copies of the annual audited accounts and the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA withbia six
months following the end of the fiscal year (para. 3.31);
(ix)    The Government would finance 100 percent of all
incremental Project operating costs (except for those
relating to the USAID financed Agricultural
Communications Branch component) starting in Project
Year 1 and continuing each year throughout the Project
implementation period (para. 3.34);
(x)    An MOA Program Steering Committee would be established by
March 1, 1986. The Committee would be chaired by the
Principal Secretary (MOA) and would include as full time
members the Controllers of Agricultural Services-NRDP and



- 34 -
Institutions, the Chief Agricultural Research Officer,
the Chief Agricultural Officer, the Chief Projects
Officer, the Chief Veterinary Officer, the Chief
Accountant and a representative from th_ Ministry of
Finance (para. 4.01);
(xi)   The Planning Division would develop a staff recruitment
program based on the review recommendations of PD's
overall proposed functions and future manpower needs
which would be submitted to IDA for comments by
September 30, 1986 (para. 4.02);
(xii)  The Planning Division would develop a five-year
agricultural sector strategy plan which would be
submitted to IDA for comments by July 1, 1987
(para. 4.03);
(xiii) The Planning Division would develop its detailed work
plans and budgets for submission to IDA for comments
not later than September 30 of each year (para. 4.03);
(xiv)  An internationally recruited financial advisor/controller
satisfactory to IDA would be in post by July 1, 1986
(para. 4.04);
(xv)   Detailed annual work plans and budgets for DOA and Mzuzu ADD
would be submitted to IDA by September 30 of each year
(para. 4.05);
(xvi)  A five-year extension strategy plan would be submitted to
IDA for comments by July 1, 1987 (para. 4.05);
(xvi)  The planning and budget system would be implemented in
Mzuzu ADD in April 30, 1987, and thereafter to all other
ADDs (para. 4.05);
6.02     The following would be conditions for Project effectiveness:
(i)    Opening of the Special Accoulat (para. 3.30);
(ii)   The Training Unit would be instituted under the
Controller for Agricultural Services-Institutions
(para. 4.06).
6.03       With the above assurances, the Project would be suitable fo'r ;11
IDA credit of US$11.6 million to the Government of Malawi.



- 35 -
MALAWII                               Chart C-1
AGRICULTURAL EXT5SICl AN0 PLf4DIG suPPORT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICJLTURE ORGANIZRTION CHART (WUER REVISIlN)*
|MOak Headquarters|
kPicia Steea
Controller of Agric.                 Controller of Agric-.          Deputy Secretary
Seru ices                            cultural Services
(CS-NRDP)                                 (CFIS. -(C Pr O
- N.R.C.         - ST           tuer Sec. Adin.
- Training Unit  - KFCTA        A din.
-ARCHA          - 5fi"          Per.WIl
S C a          - Eftates.      Fincic
De"=           of            Deparment of                 Dep rbmnt of                     Plaming Division
I Agric.   arch              Agriculture                   nimal Health
and Industry                       (CPO)
(CAW)O_                        (CADO)                     (CY)MM
Research Stations            Extension C Training i      Specialists Veterinary            Planning C Budgeting
Research Co-ordinators       Land Husbandry               Dairy                            Marketing 6 Pricing
Technical Services           Crops Inputs               - Animal Husbandry                 Surveys 6 Evalation
Coordinator                  Marketing- Livestock                                         6 Statistics
Soil Survey                   Agric. C munications                                       - Project Preparation
Food 6 Nutrition                                             Data Processing
Women s Progra_me
Credit               I
e x FkDDe
re  Ignt Units
PHs
.    DewtlopCwnt Reeomn
Field Servieed                           Prbjct Offices                      Development Se eicrs
Poe
-Extension                              -Sp cialists                          - Marketing
-Veterinary                              Credit                               - nputs
-Research                                A niml Husbandr-y                    - Forestry
A niml Husbandr                         - Veterinary                          - Roads
-Credit                                 - Restarch                            -BPuildings
-Evaluation                                                                   - later Supply
Mon's Programms                                                              L  Cnunity Delopnient
Suxpervisors 
I(TO)I
Section
Field Assistant,
wro be reviewd by the Civil Service Review; Conrission.



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLAMNI       SUPPORT PROJECT
PLNNN4N6 DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
PCHIEF PROEECTS OFFICERO
DRIT PROCESSIP C  UNIT             PRI           _            _
l                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~DEPUTY
PrOJECTSICHIEF PRWO
5-swrEMS ANALY5]       SYSTEMS hLYST 
EPlhNNMING                ACCUT                          
PROJECTS PREPCRRTIOSE PRICE                      POLICY  E4  -           T        SRVEY STRTISTICS  T                   PLhNEING SECTION    | dN
SECTIONWS HKET1NG  SECTION                        (                        EVCLUNTION SEC.                      PR()CIPTL EC) CONIST
PRINCIPAL ECMNoIST                            PRICNIPAL ECONOIST                        (PLANNINU)
PRINCIPAl ECONOMIS1'              (PRICINC 6 WAPKETING)
(PROJECTS) 
|SEN. ECON.    I SEN, ECON. |     SE.ECON. ||SEN. ECON.   |I EN   ECON.  |   SEN. ECON. I|E   ECON.                        S EN. ECON.) I I 5EN. ECON.|
CT)Il(PROJECTS) I   PROJUECTSN)       Il(PRICE POLICYI                                ](SUVXLSEYS)           I(TISTICI H 1-DEIN            (IPLANNING 
ECO IS1 (1)  ECONOM1SI     1)EST ( 1)     T  1      CONX IIST (1)    ECONOMIsT (2)    ECONOMIST (2)  STTSIIN(1)   E               I^ST (1) ECoNOMISl (1)



MALNII
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ORGfN4ORAM
PROPOSED STRUCTURE (UNDER REVISION)W
PLANNING 6 MONITORING                                       LEPUTY CA I
NEW 8RANCH
(DCAO)
ADMINISTRATION t F WNMCE         EXTENSION AND                   CROPS                 LAND I1USNMIRY                EXTENSION AIDS 
(SAO)                         TRAIN    .ACAO                                              CRO(ACAO)
Acc General   - Personnel         - Ext.(Metho.Specat)            Cereals                End Use 6 Soil                Publications
Credit         - O/S 6 Tr         - Train. (Farmer Specst)        Leguwes 6 Oil         Conservation                   Audio-Visual Aids
Dev. Acc        Registry         - Womenc Prog.                   Tobacco               Resource Planning 6            Evaluation
Rev. Acc        Stores              Credit                        Cotton                 Farir  Management             Maintenance
- Horticulture          Air Photo
Crop protection
"  To be reviewed by Civil Service Review Conmission.
I



- 38 -
Chart C-4
Page 1 of 2
- AA                                          I                       K  M
-                       Mn                                                     I
l-                I g                 g                         :        |~~~I 
,,1> t   -           I~~ ~~I             B                          -g      I
_ _  |  t  |   I    I   fi  |              g    |   B   t       I  |~B 
Q ,~~~~~~ I                                   I                          I8.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 
;   T  g  4  ; } 1 i ] | X t 2X g l i i   



KMn
AUtICXML EKnAeNDatAW SR            S UI     P r
' 0EO              WAR I                Year 2                 YR 3                  Y;R 4                 Y-JI 5
O      ta/Uvtties                            I     -4    3                          4 _         2    3    AII                3Z- 34 4T31 21  3
F. AM EKM6XN SiiE rniW
NM AM
Dtmdutioe of Fztenula PRtgr
_d &mltDgj Spt                                                                              _     xx .m   x
TltLnLr of Staff                                                               mXXm  xxm -
FAtAbH1l8%t of ART                                                                                 -    -      - x3a
!elqopit of  tmnt  bssCl Mx mx                                                                                               xx    WM mxx      Q  
W. of NM Omaleatikw  Plot Sd4e I|-    -    -   ___ |                                   _X     x   xm  mxx xm x     __ xx _ =         _M X= M
Ctvil WA
Oxtrmction of HIrg, Office Skec
a'd Other Inf!rtnrmtvum                                            -m-                              -    oaw
Prvmt    of t idelee, f_nt'                                                              R om -xx m-XX
ieWI ard bUpliniatfin of M Ic,w
I'bitrit ard Bmu.ktintt    "gte                                                    -          =g        omm =0    m           xm    azo
G. ar uiTiS1U
Fbtultlon of TIn  of Refemme
Oqpletim  of Sftu                                                    10
blintAtin of renistlmus                                 ___
hwa    Ptoject ba  effective Fet%y! 1986              .
PnpartIn he         -
bplmmtAt ion FhR     x=o
0 I



- 40 -
Chart C-5
Page 1 of 2
MAIAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
Key Indicators of Implementation
Activity                                        Expected
Imaplementation 11
A. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (MOA)
(i) Establishment of the MOA Program
Steering Committee                                  By March 1, 1986
(ii) Establishment of Project Special
Account                                             By credit effectiveness
B. PLANNING DIVISION (PD)
Ci)   Recruitment of Planning and
Management Advisor                                By April 30, 1986
Cii)   Employment of Systems Analyst                       By March 31, 1986
(iii)  Review of PD's proposed functions
and reorganization-completed                      By September 30, 1986
(iv)   Staff Recruitment Program developed
and submitted to IDA for comment                  By September 30, 1986
(v)    Recruitment of additional senior staff-
completed                                         By March 31, 1987
(vi)   Formulation of Five-Year Plan-Completed
and sent to IDA for comment                       By July 1, 1987
(vii)  Review of Planning and Management
Advisor's contract for purpose of                 By February 28, 1988
possible extension
(viii) Annual Work Plans and Budgets Due                   By September 30 of each
year
C. NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM (DOA)
Reorganization
Ci)  DOA - Internal reorganization completed               By March 1, 1986 *
1/   Assumes Project effectiveness starting February, 1986



- 41 -
Chart C-5
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Recruitment of Extension Management and
Planning Advisor                                    By March 1, 1986
Management and Systems Improvement
(i)   Recruitment of Financial Advisor/Controller          By July 1, 1986
(ii)  Establishment of DCAO post and appointment           By March 1, 1986
(iii) Design and Implementation of Extension
Planning and Budgeting Systems
- Mzuzu ADD                                          By April 30, 1987
- Other ADDs                                         Thereafter
Civ)  Implementation of Mass Communication
Pilot Scheme                                       By October 31, 1986
Cv)  Annual Workshops                                      May/June of each year
(vi) Annual Extension Work Plans for DOA and
Mzuzu ADD                                          By September 30 of each
year
Cvii) Five-Year National Extension Strategy
Plan Completed and sent to IDA for
comments                                           By July 1, 1987
Strengthen DOA's Technical Capacity
'i)   Recruitment of USAID financed
Training Advisor                                   By September 30, 1985
Cii) Training Advisor's responsibility will be
broadened to include all professional
and technical training within MOA                  By September 30, 1985
(iii) Establishment and staffing of the
Training Unit                                      By credit effectiveness
(iv) Recruitment of Agricultural Communications
Specialist (financed by USAID)                     By July 1, 1986
(v)   Proposed establishment of Career Stream
and Promotion System for DOA                       March 31, 1987
Rural Credit Study
(i)  Formulation of Terms of Reference                     By September 30, 1985
(ii) Study completed and sent to IDA
for comment                                        By March 31, 1986
(iii) Implementation of agreed recommendations             By January, 1987



- 42 -
ANNEX I
TABLE T-1
Page 1 of 4
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
MOA - PLANNING DIVISION
Indicative Training Schedule Program
Source of
finance
PYl    PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5  TOTAL       IDA
A. Post-Graduate                                                              100
(person-years) a/
M.Sc. Degree                     1      4     2     2      2    11
B. In-Service Training                                                        100
(person-weeks) b/
In-country                       -     30    60    60    60   210
C. International/Regional                                                     100
(person-weeks)
Seminars/Workshops c/            2      3     3     5      5    18
Fellowships/Study Tours d/       9      9     9     9      9    45
Short Courses e/                 -      9     9     9      9    36
11     21    21    23    23    99
a/   2 person-years - 1 M.Sc. in Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Planning,
Statistics, Computer Sciences
b/   In-service training: planning, statistics, monitoring and evaluation,
pricing models
c/   Seminars/workshops mostly in the Eastern/Southern Africa Region
d/   Overseas



- 43 -
ANNEX I
TABLE T- 1
Page 2 of 4
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
NATIONAL EXTENSION SUPPORT
Indicative Extension Staff Training Schedule
PYl   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5  TOTAL  IDA    USAID
X         _
(Person-years)
I. SUMMARY
Post-graduate
A. M.Sc. Degree a/                                                         40      60
Management, Supervisory
Staff and SMSs                _        5     7     6     2    20
Sub-total                   -      5      7     6     2    20
B. Diploma or Specialization b/                                           100      -
Management and Supervisory
Staff and SMSs:                2      2      2     4     -    10
Crops                          2       2     2     2     2    10
Land Husbandry                 -       2     2     2     -      6
Extension                      -       2     2     2      2     8
Sub-total                   4      8      8    10     4    34
TOTAL                       4     13    15    16      6    54
C. Courses and Study Visits for
SMSs and Extension Managers           (Person-weeks)                  40     60
In-Region b/                     6      14    12    12    12    56
North and West Africa            2       8     6     6      6    28
Overseas                         4      10     8     8     8    38
Sub-total                  12     32    26    26    26   122
D. In-Country Training
a/   2 person-years = 1 M.Sc.; 1 person-year = 1 diploma or specialization course.
b/   In-region (Zimbabwe, Kenya and Zawbia).



- 44 -
ANNEX I
TABLE T-1
Page 3 of 4
Indicative Extension Staff Training Schedule
PYI    PY2    PY3   PY4   PY5   TOTAL    IDA    USAID
(Person-weeks)
I.   Management Training                                                      100
Senior Managers               36       54     54    54    54    252
MOA and ADDs
Head of Departments and
ADD Program Managers
Sub-total                   36       54     54    54    54    252
Managers                                                                100
MOA-Heads of Technical
Branches                    43       86     86    86    86    387
ADDs-Assistant Program
Managers and Principal
Agric. Officers and
Adaptive Research Team        36       54     54    54    54    252
Leaders
R!)P Project Officers         28       28     28    28    28    140
EPA-Development Officers       -      128    128   128   128    512
Sub-total                  107      296    296   196   196  1.291
II. ADD-Financial Controllers
and Accountants               -       80     80    80    80    320   100
Sub-total                    -       80     80    80    80    320
III. Training of Trainers                                                     100
Core Group of Trainers       246      372     62    62    31    773
Senior Management             15       -      -      -     -      15
ADD-Training Officers         54      324     54    54    54    540
Sub-total                  315      696    116   116    85  1,328



- 45 -
ANNEX I
TABLE T-1
Page 4 of 4
Indicative Extension Staff Training Schedule
PYl    PY2    PY3   PY4   PY5   TOTAL    IDA    USAID
Z       %
(Person-weeks)
IV.  Technical Training                                                                 100
Subject Matter Specialists
DOA and ADDs Headquarters        -     144      96    96    96    432
RDP-(crops, land husbandry
livestock and credit
specialists                    -      28    254   2'4   254    790
EPA-(crops, land husbandry,
livestock and credit
specialists                    -     128    256   256   256    896
Sub-total                      -     300    606   606   606  2,118
V. Technical Assistants and
Farm Home Assistants                        2,600 2,600 2,600  7,800              100
Sub-total                        -        2600 2,600 2,600  7,800
TOTAL                      458    1,426  3.752 3,752 3,721 13,109



- 46 -
Annex I
Table T-2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Technical Assistance
Pyl    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    TOTAL Source of
Finance
(Person-months)
1. Long-Term
A. PLANNING DIVISION
Planning and Management Advisor      12      12    12      -      -       36   IDA
Senior Systems- Analyst              12     12      -      -      -      24   IDA
Pricing Policy Specialist            12     12      -      -      _       24   IDA
36     36     6      -       -      84
B.  NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM (DOA)
Extension Planning Advisor           12      12     6      -      -       30   IDA
Financial Advisor/Controller          6      12    12      -      -       30   IDA
Seed Multiplication Specialist        6     12    12       6      -      36   IDA
Training Advisor                     12     12    12      12     12       60   USAID
Training Specialist                  12      12    12     12     12       60   USAID
Mass Media Specialist                12      12     6      -      -       30   USAID
Womens Program Advisor               12      12     6      -      _       30   USAID
Sub-Total                            72     84    66      30     24     276
Total                               108    120    72      30     24     360
TT. Short-Term
A.  PLANNING DIVISION                    _        3     3      6      _       12   IDA
Sub-Total                           _        3      3      6     _        12
B. NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM
1. Staff Training A/                  3      8    18       6      -      35   USAID
2. Agricultural Communications b/    2       14    13      5      2       36   USAID
Sub-Total                             5     22    31      11      2       71
Total                                 5     25    34      17      2       83
==    ===      -      - 
a/   Includes Technical Assistance for Case Studies to measure the impact of specific
extension programmes on adoption of new practices by farmers (in collaboration
with MOA Planning Division)
b/   Includes Technical Assistance on: communications hardware, operation and
evaluation of radio and other audio-written communications, print media and
equipment maintenance.



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Table T-3
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
Staff Establishment and Position
Division                       Position        Establishment    Proposed new
positions
Planning                 Chief Projects Officer    Filled        To be upgraded
Dep. Chief Projects
Officer                               Vacant
Section
Pricing Policies
and Marketing         Principal Economist                      Vacant
Senior Economist
(Marketing)             Filled
Senior Economist
(Price Policy)                        Vacant
Economist (Marketing)     Filled
Economist
(Price Policy)          Filled
Planning and
Budgeting              Principal Economist       Filled
Senior Economist
(Budgeting)                           Vacant
Economist (Budgeting)      Filled
Senior Economist
(Planning)              Vacant
Economist (Planning)       Filled
Project Preparation      Principal Economist                     Vacant
Senior Economist          Filled
Senior Economist                        Vacant
Economist                  Filled
Economist                  Filled
Surveys, Statistics
and Evaluation        Principal Economist        Filled
Senior Economist
(Agro-Economic
Surveys)               Vacant
Economist (Agro-
Economic Surveys)       Filled
Economist (Agro-
Economic Surveys)       Vacant
Senior Economist
(Evaluation)            Filled



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Table T-3
Page 2 of 2
Division                       Position        Establishment    Proposed new
positions
Economist (Evaluation)    Filled
Economist (Evaluation)    Filled
Senior Statistician       Filled
Statistician              Filled
Data Processing          Senior Systems
Analyst                 Vacant
Systems Analyst
(Planning)              Filled
Systems Analyst
(Accounts)              Filled
Staff position as of July, 1985



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Table T-3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
National Extension System - Staff Establishment
Staff Ranks and Responsibilities                  Establishment a/    Vacancies
No.         %       No.     %
Superscale Officers
Ranking professional officers at higher
salary levels, primary DOA and                     68     ( 2)       10    (15)
ADD managers and senior subject matter
specialist (SMS) staff
Professicnal Officers (po) b/
B.Sc. or advanced degrees, mostly ADD deputy        124     ( 4)       19    (15)
managers; RDP managers and senior SMSs
Chief Technical Officer (CTO)
Diploma holders, experienced SMSs
and supervisory staff at ADD                       16     ( 1)        2    (12)
or RDP levels
Senior Technical Officers (STO) and
Technical Officers (TO)
Diploma holders, mainly extension or
credit supervisors, SMSs at RDP and EPA           402     ( 12)      18    C 4)
levels and EPA managers
Senior Technical Assistants (STA)
Certificate holders, mainly supervisory             238     C 7)       25    (10)
staff at RDP or EPA level
Technical Assistance (TA)
Certificate holders: technical assistants,
credit assistants, farm home assistants,
land husbandry, and veterinary assistants,      2,476     C 75)     131    ( 5)
who are in direct contact with farmers as
field extension workers
TOTAL                                             3,324     (100)     205    ( 6)
Source: MOA Planning Division, July 1985
a/   Includes established positions for Extension Aids Branch.
h/   There are an average of 4 superscale grade officers and 8 professional
officers in each ADD. Of the 141 professional staff in these
categories, there are 15 professional officers with a M.Sc. degree and
10 additional officers are currently pursuing advanced degree courses
overseas.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Table T- 4
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
National Extension System - Staff Establishment
Staff Ranks and Responsibilities                   Establishment A/    Vacancies
No.         X       No.      X
Superscale Officers
Ranking professional officers at higher
salary levels, primary DOA and                      68      ( 2)       10    (15)
ADD managers and senior subject matter
specialist (SMS) staff
Professional Officers (Po) b/
B.Sc. or advanced degrees, mostly ADD deputy         124      ( 4)       19    (15)
managers; RDP managers and senior SMSs
Chief Technical Officer (CTO)
Diploma holders, experienced SMSs
and supervisory staff at ADD                        16      ( 1)        2    (12)
or RDP levels
Senior Technical Officers (STO) and
Technical Officers (TO)
Diploma holders, mainly extension or
credit supervisors, SMSs at RDP and EPA            402     ( 12)       18    ( 4)
levels and EPA managers
Senior Technical Assistants (STA)
Certificate holders, mainly supervisory              238      C 7)       25    (10)
staff at RDP or EPA level
Technical Assistance (TA)
Certificate holders: technical assistants,
credit assistants, farm home assistants,
land husbandry, and veterinary assistants,       2,476     C 75)      131    ( 5)
who are in direct contact with farmers as
field extension workers
TOTAL                                              3,324      (100)     205    ( 6)
Source: MOA Planning Division, July 1985
a/   Includes established positions for Extension Aids Branch.
bl   There are an average of 4 superscale grade officers and 8 professional
officers in each ADD. Of the 141 professional staff in these
categories, there are 15 professional officers with a M.Sc. degree and
10 additional officers are currently pursuing advanced degree courses
overseas.



tIAAWI
NATIONAL EXTENSION ANDt PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cosponents bh Year
(KIACHA '000)
Base Costs                        Total
85/86   86/87    87/88   88/81   89190    KUACHA  (US$ '000)
U :*        U  -:                  .   ::::U-
A. PLANNING DIVISION                                      876.3  1,267.2   676.9   505.4   373.4   3t699,3    2.055.2
B. NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROGRAM                           1,628.8  24956.1 29591.2 1,859,0 1100.4  10,135.5    5i630#8
AGRICULTURAL COMtUNICATIONS BRANCH                    291.6  1466o2  457,4   343.9   349.6   29908.7    1o615,9
ADAPATIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM                                  -     63.0    75.0    76.0    87.0       301.0      167.2
NZUZU ADD                                                6.0  3i452.5   386.1   512,3   64.2   5.051,1    2P806i2
SEASONAL CREDIT                                        947.0    576.0   577.0   641,0   709.4   3.450o4    191609
Sub-Total NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT         2,873.4  8W513.B 4P086.6 3.432,2 2o940.6  219846,7   12i137,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      3.749,7  9.781,0 4.763#6 3o937.7 3.314,1  25.546,0   14.192,2
Phgsical Contingencies                                   3N9    11034.0   453.1   3?9,3   394.1   2.630,4    1.461,3
Price Contingencies                                      480.9  29275.7 1.559,9 1,927.2 2,018.5   8.162,2    4953445
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       4.580,3 13,090,7 6.776.6 6,164.2 5.726,7  36,338.5   20,188,1
Foreign Exchange                                       3t86693  9,530.7 5,474.1 44561,7 4,173.9  27.606,7   15P337.0
InH




HALAUI
NATIONAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cosaonents bv Year
Totals Including Contingencies                       Totals Including Contingencies
(KUACHA '000)                                          (USi  '000)
85/86   86187    87/88   88/89   89/90   Total        85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   Total
A. PLANNING DIVISION                                     1.095,5  1,690.0 1,061.9   798.8   643.1  5,289,3    608.6   938o9   589.9   443,8   3!7,3  2p938t5
8, NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROGRAM                            10855,4  30713.8 3,528.3 2.807,4 10845.3 130750,1  1,030.8 2,063,2 1,960.2 1.559,7 1.025,2  7.63960
AGRICULTURAL COMMUNICATIONS BRANCH                      322,8  1879.2   584.1   516.1   571.2  3,B73.4    179.3 1,044.0   324,5   286.7   317.3  2s151.9
ADAPATIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM                                  -     82.7   108,3   120.2   149.3    460,5           -    46.0    60.1    66.6    82.9    255.8
IZUZU ADD                                                 6,7  4.873.5   568.4   805.3 1,176.2  7.430,3         3.7 2,707.5   315.8   447.4   653.4  4.1279
SEASONAL CREDIT                                       1,299.9    851.4   925.6 1.116,4 1,341.6  5.535.0    722.1   473.0   514.2   620.2   745,3  3,075o0
Sub-Total NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT          3P484#8 119400.7 5,714.7 59365.4 5.083,6 319049.2  19936.0 6s333.7 3P174.8 2,980.8 24824.2 179249,6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        4,580.3 13.090.7 6,776.6 6,164,2 5,726.7 36,338.5  2.544,6 7,272.6 3,764.8 3P424,6 3.191.5 20,188.1
xzz:axx c:x:aw: gam:s:= c:ssw:s a:namoz :Xs::sgs  zr::s:: ::Xs:g: oa:nazs ::::sa ::::::: ::::::::
August 22, 1985  14:36
I H



NATIONAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING  PFORT PROJECT
Sumarv kcomt bw ProJect Coeomwnt
IKUACHA '000)
NATIONAL EXTENSION SYSTEM DEYELWHENT
---------------------      ------------------------------------------                Phwsical
MTION.  ARICULRILT         AI1WATIVE                             MEDIUM             Cantl1nkies
PLAiNING  EXTENSION COMUICATIONS RESEARCH               EXTENSION SEASONAL  TERM              .............
DIVISION   PRM          BRANCH      PR06RAM  MZUZU ADD SERVICES   CREDIT  CREDIT   Total        l   Amot
*rJ--ass  -AlilIzAlsil zxxxiis- mara--  asallasixor -azzaS--X *astozxxans swx=w  xzzz=  Faszza=Us x   azzU   saw
1. IWSSTHENT LOSTS
A. FUILOIN6S                                                   -           -              -         -     522.0          -        -      -     522.0   15.0    78.3
3, HoSES                                                       -           -              -         -   19982.6          -        -      -   1:912.6   15.0  297.4
Co EQUIPMENT                                                   -        40.0          843,0         -      100.0         -        -      -     791,0   15.0   148.7
D. OfFICE EQUIPMT I FURNITURE                               28.7        14.1              -         -      72.2          -        -      -     115.0   15.0    17.3
E. VEHICLES                                                 4000       188.0           60.0     105.0    697.5           -        -      -  J:099.5   10.0  109.9
F. TECHIICAL ASSISTMCE
EXPATRIATE CONSltTMNTS                               1944.0   5&388.1           1433.7          -         -          -        -      -   9S765,    3.7   327.6
Sub-Total TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE                           1:440    5.388.1           1:433.7         -         -          -        -      -   8.765,8    3.7   327,6
0. FELLONSHIPS
FELLOUSIPS SHORT - TM                                   607.5           -              -         -          -         -        - -          607.5   10.0    60.8
FELLOSHIPS NSC                                          295.9    1.54.0                -         -          -         -        -      -   19 79.9  10.0   1W.0
FELLOUSHIPS DIPLOA / SPECIALIZATION                         -      642.6               -         -          -         -        -      -      4421   10.0   44.3
REGIONAL - INTERNIOWNL TRAINING                          45.0           -              -         -          -         -        -      -       45,0   10.0     4.5
EX)TEW   STIUN  7WS                                         :      31342               -         -         -          -        -      -     313,2   10.0   31.3
SHORT TERN TRAINING MED SEMINEAS                            -       173.9              -         -          -         -        -      -     173J9   10.0    17.4
IN CM.RT TRAINING                                       289.3    1:395.8               -         -         -          -        -      -   1,685,1   10.0   168.5
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS                                    1,237.7    4IO95                 -         -          -         -        -      -   5:347.2   10.0   534.7
N. CREDIT                                                      -           -              -         -          -         -  3:450,4      -   3:450,4   22.0   759.1
Total INSMENT COSTS                                         3,258.4    9:739.7        2W336M7      105.0  3,382.3           -  3:450,4      - .22272,5   10.2 2272,8
11. RECIRINT CSTS
INCRMTAL SARIES LOCAL STAFF                               2".0       107.0               -      21,0         -          -        -      -     426.0    1.0      4.3
INCREMENTAL TRAYEL COSTS                                      -           -              -         -       30,0         -        -      -      30.0   0.0       0.0
YEHILE O ATION I MAINTENACE                               106.8      280.8            70.0     175.0  1233146           -        -      -   1944,2   15.0   294.6
EQUIPMENT OPATION I MINTENUICE                             36.2         8.O          502.0         -       38.7         -        -      -      5849   10.0   58.5                            ,4
*BUILD111 MINT. I VEPAIR                                      -           -                        -      267.2         -        -      -      267.2    0.0     0.0                          : 1
OFFICE EQUIPMEN1 I FLRItNITUIE MINTEWCE I REPAIR              -           -              -         -        1.4         -        -      -        1,4   10.0     0.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                         440.9       395.0          572.0     196.0   1:668.8          -        -      -   34273.5   10.9   357,5
Total  ASELINE COSTS                                         3:6"993   10:135.5         2p9OG&7    301.0   5,051.1           - 3&450.4       -  25W546,0   10.3 2:630.4
Phlslcal Continuncies                                       483.1       481.           193.2      37.0      676.2         -    759Y1      -   2,630.4    0.0      0.0
Price Continencies                                        1,106.9    3,132.9           771.6     122.5   1,702.9          -  1.325.5       -   9,162.2    9.7   m.o
Total MJECT COSTS                                            5:2893   13,750.1          3,873.4     460.5   7s430.3          -  515350        . 36:338.5   9.4 3:420.4
Forein Exchat,                                            4:247.9   10:605.9         3,7685.     396.7   4:629.7          -  3:958.1       -  27h607    8.9 2:458.5
_ _ -  --  -  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  -- - - -- - -  -  -- - - -- - - -   -   -   -  ----                                       _  _ -- - - - - - - - - -   -- -- - -- -  -_-- - -- - -- - - -



KWMI
NATIONAL EXNSION AD KPAING SUPOR? PIOCT
SUMMT fiCCOUNYS COST SU"m
(KUACHA '00)              (USS '000)                   Z Total
----- - -----------------  Z Forti*   lass
Local Foreign   Total    Local Forwisn  Total   Excarde   Costs
222222  3223zz =mUa  =223352       33=  3333223 31411132233322  =33E1233
I. INMSTRENT COSTS
A. KUILDINOS                                         313.2  m28       522.0   174.0   116,0   290.0          40        2
3. HOUSES                                           14189.6   793.0  1,M.6   660s9   440.6 j1:101.4          40        8
C. EGUIPiNT                                              -   "1,0   991.0          -   550.6   550,6         100       4
D. OFFICE EGUIPIENT I FURNITURE                       11.5   103.5   115.0       6.4    57.5    63.9         90        0
E. WHICLES                                               - 1,098.5  1,098.5        -   610.3   610,3        100        4
F. TECHNICL ASSISTANCE
EXPATRIATE CONS%LTATS                                 -  9,765.9  8,765.8       - 4,869.9  4.869#9        100      34
Sub-Total TEDIEICAL ASSISTANCE                           - 9,765,8 89,7658         - 4,969.9  4,869.9        100      34
g. FELLOWSHIPS
FELLOSHIPS NOURT - TERN                            121,5   486.0   607,5    67.5   270,0   337.5           s0       2
FELLOWSHIPS NSC                                    376.0  1:503.9  1.879.9   208.9    35,5  1,O44.4        s0       7
FELL01U5IPS DIPLOrA / 6PECIALIZATION               365.6   257.0   642.6   214.2  . 142.9   357.0          40       3
REGIONAL - INTEMTIWW. TRAININh                       4.5    40.5    45.0      2.5    22.5   2M0            90       0
EXTERNAL STUDY TOLRS                               197.9   125.3   313.2   104.4    69.6   174.0           40       1
SHORT :tZ TRAINING AND SEMINARS                    104.3    69.6   173.9    58.0    39.6    96.6           40       1
IN COInRY TRAINING                               11011 1   674.0 1:685.1   561.7   374.5   936.2          40        7
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS                               2,190.9 3:156o3 5:347.2  1:217.1  1,713.5 2.970,7        59       21
H. CREDIT                                             897.1  2:553.3  3:450.4   498.4  1,418.5  1:91649      74       14
Total INVSTNT COSTS                                   4:602,2 179670.3 22,272.5 2:556,9  9:916.8 12:373.6       79       97
It. REMOT COSTS
INCIENTAL SALMIES LWAL STAFF                         404.7    21.3   426.0   224.8    11.8   236.7           5        2
INMETAL TRMW  COSTS                                   6.0    24.0    30,0       3.3    13.3    16.7         80        0
MCHICLE OETION I MAINTENANCE                         196.4  1,767.7  1:9642    109.1  M9l 1:091.2           90        8
EGUIPINT OPERATION I MINTEIWCE                        58.5   526.3   584.8    32.5   292.4   324.9           90       2
BJILDING MAINT. I REPAIR                             160.3   106.9   267.2    8991    59.4   148.4          40        1
OFFICE E0UIPtET I FUNITURE MINTEIOWCE I REPAIR         0.1     1.3      1.4     0.1      0.7    O.          90       0
Total RECUWENT COSTS                                    926.0 2.447,5  3:23.    458.9  1:397  1:918,6           75       13
Total DMELIIE COSTS                                    5:429,2 20&117.9 25:546.0 3:015.7 11:176.5 14:192.2       79      100
Ptnical Continicies                                    613.0  1:947.4 2630.4   379,4  1:01319 1,461.3         74       10
Prict Contimncius                                    2620.7  5:541.5  8:16.2  19455.9 3:078.6  4:534.5        68       32
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   89731.9 27:606.7 36:3385  4:651,0 15:33740 20:18.B1        76      142
_ ...... __._ ........... .                               2       _ .   .         3        _  _.



riLwl
NATIWd. EXl S1I0  AND PLWUINO sPoAT PRUJECT
SBump kAomts bh Yoes
1w  Costs                     Fori*L ExdchN
95/86  86/87   97/S  98A19  89/90   To Zl        Z    Aont
1 INIE5TIIDT COSTS
A, DUILDINOS                                             -   522.0       -       -      -   522.0   40.0   209.9
B. HOUSES                                                - 1982.6       -           -  - 1,982.6   40.0    793.0
C. EGUIPT                                                -   961.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   991.0  100.0    991.0
D. OFFICE EGUIPENT I FURNITURE                           -   112,5    2.5        -      -   115.0   900       103.5
Et VEHIMES                                               -   795.6   30.0   15.0  257.9 1,099.5  100.0  1.099M5
F. TECHICAL ASSISTMNCE
EXPATRIATE CONSILTANTS                           2,295.6  3,01.82 2150.   960.9  340.2 9,765.8  100.0  9,765.8
Sub-Total TECHNIC-AL ASSISTANCE                    2,2S.6  3J0IB.2 2,150.9  960.   340.2 3t765.8  100.0  3,765.9
G. FELLON1IPS
FEILOSIPS SH0RT - TERN                              60.3   136.9  136.9  136.9  136.9   607.5   90.0    486.0
ILLONUIPS NC                                       26.9   503.6  606,2  529.0  212.2  1,97999   O0,0  14503#9
FEL.LMSHIPS DIPLOIA / SPECIALIZATION                75.6   151.2  151.2  139.0   75.6   642.6   40.0    257.0
RE610G1A  - INTMTIN   TRAINING          ,           5.0      7,5    7.5   12.5   12.5    45,0    0.o        40.5
EXT1RN  STUDY TOURS                                 32.4    86.4   64.8   64.1   64.8   313.2   40.0    125.3                  W
SHOT TERM TRAINING AND SEIMIS                         -    97.2   3859   21.6   16,2   173.9   40,0         69.6
IN COWIYRT TRAINING                               24.7   467.6  342.6  320.6  305.6 1,635.1   40,0    674,0
Sub-Total FELLOUSNIPS                                448,9  1,450,3 1,350,0 1,274,3  823,7 5,347,2   59.0  39156,3
o. CDIT                                              947?0   576.0  577.0  641.0  709.4 3,450.4   74,0  2,553,3
Total INIST1N  COSTS                                  3.691,5  9,41e.2 4,220.4 2W901.2 2,141,2 22,272.5   79.3  1770J3
11, RECIRllT COSItS
IKREMENTAL SAIES LOCAL STAFF                         52.2    91l2   93.2   94,2   95.2   426.0    5.0         21.3
IND1fT^AL TRiE. COSTS                                 6.0      6.0    6,0    6.0    6.0    30.0   80.0        24,0
YEHICLE OPERATION I MINTEWCE                            -   252,6  515,4  530.4  665   I,964.2   S0,0  1.767#7
EDUIPINT OPERATION I AINTEIMNCE                         -    13.0   21.4  275,2  275.2   584.9    no,    526,3               '
BUILDING  AINIT, I REPAIR                               -        -    7,2  130.0  130.0   267.2  4O0O        106.9
OFFICE EWIFt-PT I FURITURE MINTEICE I REPAIR            -        -      -    0.7    0.7       1.4   SO.0       1.3
Total RECXT COSTS                                        58.2  3U2.9  643.2 1,0365 I,172   J,273,5   74.9  2.447.5
Total DASELIIE COSTS                                   3,749,7  9,781.0 4,763.6 3.937,7 39314.1 25.546U0   78.9 20,117.9          S
Ph,sical ConilrE sles                                 349.9  1,034.0  453.1  399.3  394.1  2,60,4   74,0  1,947.4
Pric Contienciss                                    4U0,9 2,275.7 1,559.9 1,827#2 2,01895  ,1I62.2   67.9  5,541.5
Total FROJECT COSTS                                    4,580.3 13090.7 6,776.6 6,164,2 5,726,7 36,338.5   76.0 27,606.7
Forlein Exhw                                        3,566,3  9.530.7 5,474.1 4,561.7 4,173.9 27,606.7    0.0     0.0
AuNust 22. 185 14136



-56-                  .nnz II
Table T- 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
IlA FY                    BY HAL YEAR        CzumaATIVE
1985/86
1st Half Year                      0.7               0.7            6.0
1986/87
1st Half Year                       l.l              1.8           16.0
23d Half Year                       1.5              3.3           28.0
1987/88
Ist Half Year                      1.9               5.2           45.0
2nd Half Year                      2.0               7.2           62.0
1988/89
1st Half Year                      1.5               8.7           75.0
2nd Half Year                      0.6               9.3           80.0
1989/90
1st Half Year                      0.8                 10.1        87.0
2nd Half Year                      0.7                 10.8        93.0
1990/91
1st Half Year                      0.4                 11.2        97.0'
2nd Half Year                       0.4                11.6      lO.0
Assumes Project becomes effective February 1986.



57                        AIH     il 1
Table  - 9 (a)
MWL
AGCMERNAL EU5IQAD PL P!            S
Goverrmnt Cuh Fl  Projectka a/                             -
lKnd111
Year                   1      2        3       4         5       6          7         8        9        10
Cash Iflow
MDA                360   3,240   9,000    4,140    2,700       1,440
USAID             1,080   3,420   3,560    1,300       650       490
Total Ch Infli    1,440   6,660   12,560    5,450    4,000    1,930
Cash Outflo
Projert Costs b/  4,000   13,2D0   7,20O    6,300    5,700    1,8D0     1,900    2,000    1,900    1,900
Debt Service
Mk C/              106      113     135       146      153       157      157      157       157      157
Tomal Cash OUtflow  4,106   13,313   7,335    6,446    5,853    1,957    2,057    2,157    2,057    2,057
?et Govt. CAsh
Flow            (-2,666) (-6,653) (5,225)   (-996) (-1,853)    (-27) (-2,057) (-2,157) (-2,057) (-2,057)
Qzmi1atie   Net
Cash Flow               (-9,319) (-4,094) (-5,090) (-6,943) (-6,970) (-9,027) (-11,184) (-13,241) (-15,298)
a/ At awrert prics up to 1989/90 and at 1990 cmutam pI r     iuaeaEter emcpt debt serv1m dre.
b/ AsSiUe   repla eamw: of equip.t ad v4dcm every five yeams,    rcyclm evy tlnee years.
A Asaes  a 10 year gm   period and an aual          ofrge i 0.5%k m tu iwzdqbuzed b1lam  and 0.75Z m tde
disbrsed balance.



- 58 -                     ANNEX III (A)
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
MOA - PLANNINr- DIVISION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Price Policy and Marketing Section
(a)      analysis of each crop in terms of production potential
and constraints, trade position, profitability,
production costs, credit needs and subsidies;
(b)      impact of prices on farm income, urban income, ADMARC
cashflow, foreign exchange earnings and balance of
payments;
(c)      preparation of annual price policy proposals for both
agricultural inputs (i.e. seeds and fertilizers) and
commodities;
(d)      study of trends in international commodity prices for
Malawi's export crops; and
Planning Section
(a)      review, coordinate and prepare annual capital and
recurrent budget proposals for MOA and assist ADDs in
budget preparation;
(b)      coordinate and prepare long-term capital and recurrent
budgets requirements for MOA;
(c)      prepare long-range forecasts of production, input
requirements, crop and livestock production and
population trends;
(d)      prepare annual supply plans and programs for main
agricultural inputs;
(e)      prepare annual and long-range projections for food demand
and supply in relation to population trends; and
Project Preparation Section
(a)      identification, preparation and control of all
agricultural projects in collaboration with other
Departments within MOA;
(b)      identification of regions, commodities and agro-based
activities with maximum potential for development; and



- 59 -                    ANNEX III(A)
Page 2 of 3
Surveys, Statistics axid Evaluation Section
(a) supervise annual crop production estimates;
(b) provide guidance and assistance to ADDs on preparation of
annual evaluation reports for ongoing rural development
projects;
(c) prepare periodic (quarterly/half-yearly) project
implementation reports, mid-term evaluation reports and
project completion reports;
(d) plan and conduct annual agricultural surveys in
collaboration with the National Statistics Office;
(e) plan, supervise and analyse field survey data on
agricultural production practices and farming systems and
from field tests of improved technologies;
(f) collect data to measure fertilizer aoplication rates and
total use by ADDs and RDPs for specific crops; measure the
impact of fertilizer use on crop yield and productivity;
(g) in collaboration with Data Processing Unit, assist ADDs in
the introduction, maintenance and operation of micro
computer facilities;
(h) establish, update and expand the computerized agricultural
data bank;
(i) compile all the relevant statistics at the ADD, RDP and EPA
levels;
(j) prepare annual statistical sumaries.



- 60 -                   ANNEX III (A)
Page 3 of 3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE - PLANNING DIVISION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
A. Duties and Responsibilities
The planning and management advisor will work in MOA's Planning
Division and will be directly responsible to the Chief Projects Officer.
In addition to assisting in routine management functions, he will be
required to:
(i)      act as senior policy advisor to the Chief Projects
Officer of MOA and will be responsible for providing
technical advice to the Sections within the Planning
Division;
(ii)     provide guidance on price and policy analysis and
selection of commodities and location-specific
investments;
(iii)    provide advice on agricultural project investment
proposals to ensure that the investments fit within the
overall framework of the agricultural sector strategy and
available financial resources;
(iv)     provide guidance on the development of agricultural
programs and supporting budgets, including long-range
financial forecasts; and
(v)      assist in the formulation of a five-year agricultural
sector strategy plan.
B.   Duration
The planning and management advisor will be required for an
initial period of 30 months with the possibility of extending the
contract.depending on agreement reached between GOM and IDA.
C.  Liaison
The planning and management advisor will be required to work
closely with MOA's technical departments, ADD program managers and chief
planning officers of other ministries.
D.   Qualifications
A PhD degree in agricultural economics with at least 10 years of
experience in national agricultural sector planning and management of
planning departments. Experience in developing countries would be useful.



- 61 -                    ANNEX III (B)
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Draft Terms of Reference
Agricultural Extension Planning and Manasement Advisor
A.  Duties and Responsibilities
The extension planning advisor will work within DOA and be
directly responsible to the Chief Agricultural Officer. He will be
required to:
(i)     provide advice to the Principal Secretary and the CAD on
establishment of national extension operational policies,
priorities and programs;
(ii)    assist DOA and ADDs in the planning, organization and
supervision of agricultural extension programs to meet
national needs in accordance with the broadly defined
agricultural sector strategy. To this end, the advisor
would be responsible for assisting DOA and ADD staff with
the preparation of extension annual work plans and
collation of work plans into a national extension annual
work plan (including physical and financial reqairements)
for submission to MOA and Treasury;
(iii)    prepare, in consultation with DQA staff and MOA's
Planning Division, a five-year national extension
strategy plan, covering major commodities to be promoted
by extension, production targets, staff training, and
financial resources requirements;
(iv)     in consultation with the training specialists, assist in
the preparation of a training program for DOA and ADD
staff;
(v)      in consultation with the training specialists, assist DOA
heads of branches and ADDs Program Managers, in the
design of the training program for SMSs;



- 62 -                    ANNEX III (B)
Page 2 of 2
(vi)     assist in developing necessary linkages with agricultural
research staff at national, ADD and RDP levels;
(vii)    coordinate with the financial advisor/controller the
implementation of the new extension program and budgeting
system, train staff as required and monitor performance
of the system; and
(viii)   coordinate the preparation and implementation of
reporting and monitoring procedures, and assist in the
preparation o- periodic progress reports to the MOA's
Principal Secretary.
B.   Duration
The extension planning advisor will be required for a period of 30
months.
C.   Liaison
The extension planning advisor will be required to work closely
with MOA's Planning Division and Agricultural Research Department in the
formulation of extension policies, priorities and programs.
D.   Qualifications
Advanced degree in agriculture and management with at least 10
years of experience in managing and planning national agricultural
extension programs in developing countries. Experience in developing
countries would be useful.



- 63 -                   ANNEX III (C)
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Draft Terms of Reference
Financial Advisor/Controller
A.   Duties and Responsibilities
The financial advisor/controller will work within MOA and will be
directly responsible to the Chief Accountant. He will be required to:
(i)      review the existing programming and budgeting mechanisms
for DOA and the ADDs;
(ii)     assess the effectiveness of existing resource utilization
and investments in DOA and ADDs;
(iii)    identify potential areas for cost savings and cost
recovery;
Uiv)     estimate on an annual basis the budget requirements for
DOA and ADDs based on priority programs to be developed
at each administrative level;
(v)      design, organize and implement an extension programming
and budgeting system at both DOA and ADD levels;
(vi)     develop criteria for measuring the results of ADD annual
work plans as related to objectives set and budget
available;
(vii)    organize short training program for MOA and ADD staff at
all levels to learn, implement, operate and monitor the
new programming and budgeting system; and
(viii)   assist in reviewing the existing programming and
budgeting system of MOA (including Ministry's HQs, DPA
and CVO), and in the development of suitable and
appropriate budgeting and accounting systems in MOA.
B.   Duration
The financial management advisor will be required for a period of
thirty months.



- 64 -                    ANNEX III (C)
Page 2 of 2
C.   Liaison
The advisor will be required to collaborate with the DOA and ADD
program managers and the Planning and Budgeting Section in the MOA's
Planning Division in the development and introduction of the new system
at the DOA and ADDs.
D.   Qualifications
The financial advisor/controller should have a degree in public
financing and/or cost and works accountancy with at least 10 years of
experience in programming and budgeting for national agricultural sector
programs. Experience in developing countries, especially in Africa, would
be useful.



-65 -                    ANNEX III (D)
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Seed Multiplication Specialist
A.   Duties and Responsibilities
7Ie Seed Multiplication Officer (or Seeds Specialist) will be
based in Mzuzu ADD and will directly be responsible to the Mzuzu ADD
Program Manager. He will work closely with the ADD senior crops officers
and the four RDP crops officers. He will be required to:
(i)      select, organize and register individual seed growers and
seed growers clubs for yearsl, 2 and 3 of the Project,
establish seed multiplication plots in training centers,
farmers' clubs, block gardens or on contract basis on
selected semi-commercial smallholders farms;
(ii)     make immediate arrangements with the National Seed
Company of Malawi (NSCM) and/or Chitedze Research Station
to bulk sufficient Chatambana foundation seed to provide
first generation seed for 100, 200 and 300 hectares iu
years 1, 2 and 3 respectively of the Project;
(iii)    make immediate arrangements with the Bunda College to
bulk sufficient foundation seed of improved Phaseolus
beans to provide first generation seeds for 10, 20 and 30
hectares in years 1, 2 and 3 respectively of the Project;
Uv)      arrange and supervise (with the assistance of the Program
Manager) a credit facility to procure the required
amounts of foundation seed for the registered seed
growers and seed growers clubs and supervise the
collection of the cost of the distributed seeds from the
growers after harvest and sale of the first and second
multiplication of the originally provided seed (i.e.
second and third generation);
(v)      arrange with NSCK, Chitedze Research Station and Bunda
College regular field inspections to maintain the purity
of the distributed varieties and to certify the quality
of the second and third seed generations;
(vi)     arrange with ADMARC the procurement (and storage) of the
bulk of the second and third seed generations against a
fair premium price from the registered seed growers. The
groundnut seed will be stored "in shell" by ADMARC and



- 66 -                    ANNEX III (D)
Page 2 of 2
protected against storage pests and sold "in shell" to
Mzuzu ADD farmers at least one month prior to planting
against a regulated "in shell" seed price for improved
groundnut seeds; and
(vii)    provide better performing seed growers with new
foundation seed in the third year to start a new
multiplication cycle.
B.   Duration
The Malawian seeds multiplication specialist would be required for
the duration of the Project.
C.   Liaison
The specialist will be required to work closely with NSCM,
Chitedze Research Station, Bunda College and the groundnut seed
multiplication scheme of the Kasungu Agricultural Development Project to
facilitate rapid dissemination of improved varieties and high quality
seed at affordable prices to farmers.
D.   Qualifications
The seeds multiplication officer should be at STO or P0 level with
at least 5 years of experience in seed production including groundnuts
and beans, and have equal technical and managerial skills.
E.   Contingency
In case no local qualified candidate is identified, the Project
would finance an intevnationally recruited seed production specialist for
three years, who, in addition to the above responsibilities, will train
the RDP crops officer to establish the seed multiplication scheme.



KAIAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
CROPPING PATrERNS, AREAS, AND AVERAGE YIELDS
MZUZU ADD
PERIOD 1980 - IqA4
Rumphl  |  North      HzaIbs     C a n t r a I H a I a b a        S o  u t h    N a i m b  .      N k h   a t a    *
Crop/Crop Mixture                 I         ha       kg7ha       * %        h         kg/ha                ha         he/ha      S       he      kgah
Katte    Local                    43.1      12,240        1,210     54.0    25,910         980      46.6   15,940          800  10.8      1,650       1,200
Hybrid                   12,4       3.600       3,000       6.0     2,870       2,400       2.9      990        2,125
Composite                 8.6       2,400       2,230       9.3     4,440       1,490       1.2    1,090        1,750    4.4       680       2,250
Sub Total                         65.1      18,240        1,700     69.3    33,220        1,170     52.7   17,920          930   15.2    2,330        1,120
Local    Malze/Pul.aa              15.0      4,200   1,170/160       4.5      2,170    710/200      II.)    3,840   1,050/170
Local    Hafe/Croundanuts          2.4         680   1,150/160       4.0      1,930    7115160       O.8       210   1,0501150
Local    Maize/Other               0.6         170                   0.7        330                                                7.2    1,100  S50/1000
Sub Total                         18.0       5,050                   9.2      4,430                 12.1    4,110                  7.2    1,100
Croundnuts pure stand 2I           4.8       1,340          400      9.3      4,460         400     19.6    6,660           300    2.7      410         62S3I  <
Pulses pure stand 1/                            55                    I.)       630         250      0.7       240                 0.2        35       2I0   ..
Oriental Tobacco                               IOS          400      0.8        380         490      0.6       200          650
Western Tobacco (DFC)                                       360                             400                             400
Finger millet                       9.0      2,520          625       9.9     4,755         625     14.3    4,860           625    1.8      270         723
Root Crops (Cassava) 4/             2.1        624       I1.OO       0.4        170       1.500                                   65.2    9,970      1I500
Lice ?i                                                                                                                            2.0       300      1,250
Cotton                             In          300          530
lAhest                                                                                                                                        25        950
Others                                                                                                                             5.7      RSS
TOTAL                   100.0     28,230                  100.0    48,055                 500.0   34,000               500.0   11,210
I/   Smlt Seeded oil and cnnfectinnary nuts.
2/   Shelled nuts
1/   Shelled beans
Fresh roots
TI   Dry paddy
6/   Seed cotten
Source:  National Sample Survey for Agrtculture and ADD's e.vauatoa sections.



HALAW I
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICES IN HZUZU ADD
INCREMENTAL YIELD, AREAS AND PRODUCTION IN YEAR FIVE
Ruphi  /  North        Huimba      C e       n t r a I HN   I     h a   S o u t h    H a I a b s      N k h a t a  P a y
kg/ha        ha        tonnes        kg/ha    ha       tonnes          kg/ha      ha    tonnem        kgs/hEaha   tonne
Maize      Local                    190         --           624          170      --         909          450       --       442          450      -        85
Hyhbrd                   580         1,500      1,054          800    3,000    2,501          1,125    2,000   2,278             --      --      --
Composite                520           550'       408          860    1,000    1,016            600       500      330          750   1,500   1,160
Sub Total                                      2,050      2,086            --    4,000    4,426             --    2,500   3,050             --   1,500   1.245
Tobacco   Western DFC                70            SO         22           --       100        40           50        100      45         (450) I/  70        32
Oriental                  SO            25         Is           40       450       255           50        150     117           --       --     --
Sub Total                            --            75         37           --       550       295           -        250      162           --       70       321
Groundnuts                            6n          550        301           65       550       416            70        --      ISO          5n       --       23
Cotton                               120          130         99           --      --         --             --        --     --            __       __      __
Rice                                 --           --         --            --      --         --             --        --     --           750      600   1,234
Wheat                                 --         --          --            --      --         --             --        --      --          450      265      373
TOTAL                      --       2,805         --            --    5,100        --             --    2,750      --            --   2,435       --
I/ Introduction, outtlated yield/ha.
2/ Assumptions for Incremental production In Working Paper.



FtALAW I
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PIANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
STRF.NGTHENINI EXTENSION SERVICES IN NZOlZU ADD
PACKACER AND VARIIIALE COSTS
(Ikeet are)
llnit                                      male        Cr. Nuts     Tohacen        Tobacco
Cost NlK   Klese Local   Msize Hybrid    Cn-poeite       Confect.      Western       Oriental    C o t t a n    W h a a t    R I c a
Seeds
Kg/ha                                          25'             25              25         90                                        25                 70           30
NK/kg                                           0.12            L.0o            0.50       0.70           --             --                             0.22        0.1s
NK/ha                                           1.00           25.00           12.50      63.00           n1..00 I/      40.00 1/       --             15.40         4.10
Fertil1ier
C.A.N. (50 kg hag)                 15.50    2  31.0n      4    62.00      4    62.00                 4    62.00                                   4    62.00
20:20:0 (50 kg hag)                17.50                  4    7n.0n      2    15.10                 1.   70n00          39.00                    2    15.00   2   31.00
l.A (50 kg hag)                    1L.50                                                                                                                       2   21.0o
Rub-Total                                      31.00          112.00           97.00       --            112.0n          39.00                         91.nO       62.00
iI. chemAcele
Sevin 851 UP (sachet)              0.38                                                                                             100  38.00
Dinmthoat. 20  UP (achet)          0.16                                                                                              20   1.20
DOT 751 WP (eachet)                0.17                                                                                              60  10.20
Total Package Cost                                34.00          157.00          10Q.50       63.00          172.00.        79.10            51.40       112.42        66.50 W
Fmily Labour
ftondaya/crop                                 IIS             ISO             135         190             32S           625             210           120          220
Other latimated Variable Cost
tor Packing, Transport
Credit Charge, etc.                            20,60           S9.40           17.2n       I4.(O           30.70          8.60           46.70         31,10        32.70
Total Var. Coats                                   54.60         216,60          146.70       77.00          202.70          67.6n0          96,10        142.70       g.20
- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~         ~         ~        ~~                 ~~                 ~~               ~        ~       ~.
11 Nursery chemicals
lb
IL



I                                          M~~~~~~~~~~ALAM
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICES IN HZUZU ADD
CairAR.ATIVE ENTERPRISE COSTS AND RPTURNS (15114/11 PRICES)
(per ha)
Enterprise                                               Witholt Prolec                                                           With Project
Crous        Tnt.Var.      Cross         Return                           Or..o      Tot.Var.        Crose        RAtura          Improvem_nt
Rumphi/North  ailaba          _ield                Revenue        Cnst,         Margin      per lAh;.dy       Yield          Revenue      Costs          "Arin    -per- lab-do         per  eaday
Haims local                                    1,21n        147.60         46.2n        111.40          0.18          1,4nn           Iin.Jul       55.11        115.t6i         0.91               II
hybrid                                   1,000        361.00       116.61        119.31           1.2n         1 ,5n           416.7s        220.10       216.45           1.17              14
composite                       .        2,2)n        212.00       0n4.71        1s..2i           1.24         2,75n           11i.0n        150.51       164.95           1.21               1
Tobacco V.mtern/DFC/$.A                          1h         124.nn        Zn2.nn        122.80          0.18            410            81.80       202.7s        184.25          O.SS               45
Oriental                                 400        316.00        94.60        221.41          0.18            450           3ss,sn         96.10       259.40          0.43               1I
Crountnutn                                       4n0        2R0.00        57.50        222.541          1.17           460           122.00         11.10       244^.U          1.21                7
oroundftuts with dacnnyl                                                                                                640           445.10       224.70        221.20          0.61              -27
Cotton                                           510        241.0         142.10        161.50          0.11            *50           299.04       93.10         200.90          0.91               I
Finger millet                                    621          71.00        11.6n         63.40          0.51            721            3.00          12.10        74.20          0.57 w
Central Kaimba
Maine focal                                      gln         119.%         41.25         18.11           M7s          1,1so           140.14         s2.10        81.20          0.71                3
hybrI4                                   2,400        292.80       168.55         124.21          n.s0         1,2n0            190.40       214.70       175.70           1.17              10
composIte                                1,490        IR1.71        90.35         90.93           0.16         2.1so            2J6.70       141.65        143.05          1.01              42
Tobacco  eonstern                                   _         __           __              _--                         400            1611.00      212.50        157.50          0.48               --
Oriental                                 490        17.1I         96Isn        2n. 611          0.43           510           41R.10         96.95       321.7s          0.52                a
Cirnundnugn                                       400        280.0o        56.95        221.05           1.19           465           121.80         77.50       248.0O           1.21               a
finger :illet                                    425          75.00        11.60         61.4n          0,M            125            81.00         12.80        14.20          0.57                I
South Hloabs
Haiti  local                                     800         97.16         21.5n         16.1(1        O.S           1,254)          152.50        53.40         99,10          0.o6                I
hybrid                                  2.125         259.65       141.1n        112.15          .Om           1.250           396.50        215.4n       111.10           1.21              46
comoslte                                1,110         211.10       111.4n        100.10n          0.1          2,350           256.70        144.20       142.50          1.06               33
Tobacco Western                                  40         160.00       201.00         IS.0n           0.49            45            4nS.00       2n0.10       2nl.90           0.58               12
Oriental                                  n)       SL.SO 5        9.SI         41s.1)0         0.5s            Ion           ss5.0        q9.n00        454.00           M.Y7              I
Grountn,are                                      300        21n.nn         56.0         11S7.10          M.6S           170           259.A0         16.40       182.60          0.99               16
Finger millet                                    625         75.nn         11.6n         61.4n          O.51            ?iVI           9n.n0         12.4n        77.2n          0.64               la
Nkbhte lay
Maims local                                    1,200         146.40        20.7)        125.171          1.U5         1,950           237.90         61.40       176.50           1.16              10
coaWoIte2                                             274.50       1n0.90        165.111          1.23         3,000            366.00       1S2.40       211.60           1.42              IS
Tobacco PFC/|Wtern                                  _         --           --            --            --               450           405.00        203.10       20I; 0          O.s1
Orouauaute (PAIl-ba)                             625         211.10        21.10        251.60           1.19           615            303.0O        24.40       219.40           1.41               8
Finger illet                                     72s         17.on         12.10         14.20          0.S1            72S            81.00         12.80        74.20          0.51                a
Most (Keac  Yatta)                               ISO          -            --            --             --            1,400           420.0o        145.40       214.40           1.96 
lice                                           1,250         212.10       is.so         IS.nn          0.79          2,000           340.00         18.20       241.0            1.10 ln
Cac^aae                                         1, SW         60.nn        17.40         42.60          n.14          2,400            10,00         23.10        56.90          0.41               ii
fIi



IBRD 1e833
MALAWI
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION AND
PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
MZUZU ADD
\  --  MPOUNOARIES OF AGRtCULTuPAL
DEVELOPMENT DIVISICNS (ADD.I
p     ADD HEADQUARTERS
X  \  |OCW                   MAIN ROADS
APILWAYS
r  chi.do   .   _           RIVERS
-     D   -| _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/                                    F  t~~~~~~~~~~~
Bo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Z    A   M,. B    I  A                                      /S
-Ir   .    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    \NI.sc        -L
o     i             60     0M    O    z   A    M                         B    I Q    U    E
it
M    f Z     M  B                           
0   20  40  60  90  140  160~~~~~~~~~~~~rft                     . Z
t                         W                                  C6 -
MNOt    OM ZAfi A   MP. Q U{
6   io  40  -s5o  I uCI140 *BO                               3e-  



