Report No. 1036b-LBR                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Second Education
Project Liberia
May 13, 1976
Western Africa Education Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $ 1.00 = L $ 1.00
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 square foot (sq.ft.) = 0.092  square
meter
FISCAL YEAR
Before 1976:  January 1 to December 31
Af'ter June 30, 1976:    July I to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ACRONYMS USED
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . . . .i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1 . . .  I
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING . . . . . . . . .                          1 . . . . .  I
A.   General   . .   .   . . .                                    1 .  . .        .     . . . 
B.   Manpower  . .                                               2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR . .   . . . . . .  . . . . . . .             3
IV.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              9
A.   Summary   . . .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
B.   Project Composition   . . . . . . . . . . . . .            l1
C.   Project Costs - Financing . . . . . . . . . . .            15
V.   IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             17
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . .             21
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Liberia in November, 1975. The mission consisted of Messrs. R. Romain
(general educator), W. Cooper (technical educator) and G. Hadjicostas
(civil engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 1      Comparative Education Indicators
Annex 2      Manpower in Liberia
Annex 3      Outline of the Liberian Education System:
its Development Requirements and its Financing
Annex 4 (a) Project Cost Summary
Annex 4 (b) Contingency Allowances
Annex 4 (c) Price Contingencies Assumptions
Annex 4 (d) IBRD Financing by Major Category of Expenditure
Annex 4 (e) Estimated Cost by Project Component and Category
Annex 5      Summary of Specialist Services and Fellowship
Program and Base Line Cost Calculations
Annex 6      Implementation Schedule
Annex 7      Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 8      Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure
MAP
IBRD 12137



ACROiYMS USLD
CARE              - Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
EFO                - Educational Facilities Office
(Ministry of Education)
LAMCO             - Liberian-American Mining Company
LSVTC             - Liberian-Swedish Vocational Training Center, Yekepa
MCSS               - Monrovia Consolidated School System
PIU               - Project Implementation Unit
(Ministry of Education)
ZRTTI             - Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute






LIBERIA
BASIC DATA
General
Land area                          110,940 km2
Population (1974):                 1,501,000
% urban                   29% (urban = community of more than
2,000 persons)
Population annual growth
rate (1962-74):                 3.3%
Urban annual population
growth rate (1962-74)           7.6%
Labor force growth rate (1962-74):3.1% (6.19% urban; 2.2% rural)
Education
1. Enrollments (1974):
Number         Female
(a) Elementary                             149,687           (35.5)
Junior High                              18,105         (25.2)
Senior High                               8,321         (23.2)
(b) Total Secondary                          26,426          (24.6)
(c) Technical/Vocational                      1,087          (16.0)
(d) Teacher Training (Primary)                  424          (19.6)
(e) Higher Education
Local - University of Liberia           1,384
Cuttington College               353
Total                1,737
Foreign (on Government scholarships)           125
Total                1,862
2. Teachers (1974):
Number   Female   Qualified
Elementary                3,818      30.3      23.1
Secondary                 1,308      14.2      67.3
Teacher Training             41      30.0      n.a.
3. Education Finance (1974):
Public Education Expenditure per capita                    $    8.8
Per pupil  Elementary Education                            $   28
Per pupil  Secondary Education                             $   98
Per pupil  Technical/Vocational                            $  442
Per pupil  Teacher Training                                $  817
Per pupil  University                                      $1,400
Percent of Current Government Expenditure                      13.9
devoted to Education (1974)
Percent of GNP devoted to Education (Public                     2.7
Expenditures only)






LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project for Liberia,
for which a Third Window Loan of US$4.0 million is proposed.
ii.       The First Education Project (Credit 305-LBR signed in May 1972) is
providing US$7.2 million for (a) constructing, furnishing and equipping two
rural multilateral secondary schools, extensions to a rural primary teacher
training institute, and a new college of Agriculture and Forestry; (b) equip-
ment for science education and technical teacher training; and (c) technical.
assistance for manpower and educational planning, project administration,
technical teacher training and secondary education,and fellowships for
educational and manpower planning. Physical implementation proceeded slowly
until December 1975 owing to late selection of architectural consultants and
to delays in completing satisfactory designs and bidding procedures for
civil works. However, the first of the construction contracts has been
awarded and the project's planning component is proceeding satisfactorily.
iii.      The proposed second education project would provide US$4.0 million
to assist in (a) increasing adult literacy and primary education in rural
areas under a community schools program; (b) strengthening education admi-
nistration and planning; (c) preparing projects in vocational training
and forest ranger training; (d) evaluating the community schools program;
and (e) determining the feasibility of radio for formal and non-formal
education.
iv.       The proposed project would be implemented over the period 1976-
79 and would assist the Ministry of Education in (a) improving the access
to education for rural children and adults; (b) improving the quality
and expanding the output of trained primary school teachers, particularly
women; and (c) strengthening education administration and planning. The
proposed project would also assist in the preparation of future invest-
ments in vocational and forest ranger training to meet two of Liberia's
most urgent training needs. It would therefore reinforce first project
objectives in regard to teacher training and educational planning, and
increase the capacity of the Ministry of Education to manage and develop
the education system.
v.        Specifically, the project would:
(a) Support the ongoing community schools program of primary school
improvement and adult literacy by:
(i) providing 12,000 school places (of which 4,000 would
be additional) in the six relatively disadvantaged
counties of Lofa, Bong, Cape Mount, Nimba, Montserrado
(outside of Monrovia) and Grand Bassa;



- ii -
(ii) expanding and improving the Zorzor Rural Teacher Training
Institute to accelerate the output of better trained
teachers and to raise the female proportion of the
national output from 20% to 30%;
(iii) providing transport, equipmen% technical assistance
and training to strengthen the adult education (literacy)
services; and
(iv) evaluating the community schools program, its implementation
problems and success in achieving objectives.
(b) Strengthen the central administration of the Ministry of Education
by financing staff training, expertise and related equipment,
supplies and vehicles for:
(i) reforming administrative organization and methods,
systems and procedures;
(ii) establishing viable units for curriculum development
and textbook production and strengthening the
educational testing service; and
(iii) finalizing a long-range education plan, preparing a
feasibility study of educational radio broadcasting,
and strengthening project implementation.
(c) Support the preparatory measures being adopted for establishing
centers to train craftsmen and forest rangers by financing
architectural studies, training and planning expertise.
vi.      Project Administration. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
established for the first project within the Ministry of Education would be rer-
ponsible for project implementation; thus exploiting the successful experience
it has already gained in Bank/IDA project implementation procedures. The PIU
would be assisted by staff in the Government ministries and agencies concerned
with the second project. The Ministry of Education would nominate and assign
liaison responsibilities to officials responsible for the primary school
building program, primary teacher training, adult education, research, central
administration, curriculum development, educational testing, publications and
educational planning. The Ministry of Labor, Youth and Sports and the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs would also assign officials to be responsible
for liaison on vocational training and the Ministry of Agriculture would do
the same for forest ranger training. Their responsibilities would include
professional judgments, quality control and integration of the project with
on-going activities. One accountant and one procurement specialist trained
under the project would be assigned to the PIU. The PIU would be staffed by
(i) a Director whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) two deputy directors, (iii)
an architect, {iv) an accountant, (v) a procurement specialist, and (vi)
support staff. The Project Director would be responsible for:



- iii -
(a)  general supervision of all aspects of implementation of
the second project;
(b) coordination with the units/agencies/ministries involved
in the second project to ensure timely implementation;
(c) supervision of technical assistance personnel and evaluation
of their effectiveness in achieving required objectives; and
(d) collection and preparation of data for an evaluation of the
project.
vii.      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and customs duties, is
estimated at US$5.4 million with a foreign exchange component equivalent to
the proposed loan of US$4.0 million,or 74% of the total cost. The cost
estimates for the Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute are based on
building prices and transport costs prevailing in Monrovia in November 1975,
updated to April 1976. The primary schools cost estimates are based on an
analysis of the costs experienced by CARE for the construction of such
schools in its 1974-76 construction program. The estimated base line cost
(April 1976), net of taxes per square meter of gross area, is: primary
schools, US$60; staff houses, US$150; boarding accommodation, US$200; and
workshops, US$160. Monrovia was taken as a reference point and appropriate
cost adjustment factors have been applied, depending upon the location of
the project institutions. These unit costs compare favorably with those of
neighboring countries, particularly in the case of primary schools. Site
development of about 20% of the construction costs has been included in the
case of ZT,TTI, while for the primary schools no allowance for site develop-
ment has been incorporated in the building costs because the communities
will provide prepared sites. The cost of furniture, equipment and vehicles
has been estimated on the basis of provisional lists and November 1975 prices
adjusted to April 1976. The cost of technical assistance totaling 28 man-
years is estimated to average about US$40,000 per man-year (of which
US$27,000 is estimated to be for salaries). These costs are based on the
most recent experience of ILO, Unesco and the Government in recruiting
technical assistance personnel for Liberia.
viii.     Procurement.   Civil works for the teacher training institute
amounting to US$300,000, furniture valued at US$609,000, and equipment
valued at US$742,000 would be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The renovation of
two staff houses for the ZRTTI staff (US$34,000) and minor works for
adapting and a r-coreitioning the publications unit (US$50,000) would be
undertaken on force account by the ZRTTI staff and by the Ministry of
Public Works, respectively. Furniture, equiprent, vehicles and other items
which cannot be grouped in packages of at lea,.t ILS$5G,OfO equivalent each
or which are not suitable for international comlpetitive bidding may be
procured on the basis of quotations in accordance with local procedtures
acceptable to the Bank. Local manufacturers of furniture and eauipment
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
competing imports or the total applicable customs duties and irport taxes,
whichever is lower.



- iv -
ix.       The Government plans to construct the 100 primary school units,
valued at US$1.74 million, using CARE as its executing agent. This arrange-
ment would ensure continuity between the ongoing 1974-76 primary  school
program, under which CARE has successfully constructed 35 such schools for
the Government, and the primary school component of the project. CARE, whose
costs are 50% of those quoted by commercial contractors for comparable buildings,
has proved itself to be efficient in this type of construction; it offers its
services and experience to stimulate local self-help and its expertise and
a financial contribution of US$25,000 to train villagers in basic construction
skills. CARE would employ and train local personnel in building management,
particularly site supervision, procurement, and mobilization of community
support; Government would employ such persons on satisfactory    completion
of their assignments. These provisions will be included in an agreement between
the Government and CARE, a draft of which was discussed during negotiations and
which also includes provisions for:
(a) a revolving fund, established and funded by the Government,
to prefinance CARE's operations;
(b) the phasing of the construction program;
(c) the establishing and review of costs;
(d) the maintenance of records by CARE on community participat-on.
The agreement will be acceptable to the Bank.
x.        Disbursements. The funds from the loan account would be disbursed
as follows:
(a) 45% of civil works expenditures;
(b) (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
furniture and equipment;
(ii) 80% of expenditures for locally procured furriture, and
75% of expenditures for locally procured equiprent:
(c) 70% of expenditures for consultants' services;
(d) 80% of expenditures for technical assistance;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships.
US$0.7 million would be unallocated. All dilsbursements would he made against
satisfactory docurentation. Any funds remainling undisbursed at the completion
of the project would be cancelled. The project is expected tc be completed in
about three years after the signing of the Loan Agreement.
xi.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Third Window
Loan of US$4.0 million for a period of 25 years, including a seven-year grace
period.



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The First Education Project (Credit 305-LBR signed in May 1972) is
providing US$7.2 million for (a) constructing, furnishing and equipping two
rural multilateral secondary schools, extensions to a rural primary teacher
training institute, and a new college of Agriculture and Forestry; (b) equip-
ment for science education and technical teacher training; and (c) technical
assistance for manpower and educational planning, project administration,
technical teacher training and secondary education, and fellowships for
educational and manpower planning. Physical implementation proceeded slowly
until December 1975 owing to late selection of architectural consultants and
to delays in completing satisfactory designs and bidding procedures for civil
works. However, the first of the construction contracts has been awarded and
the project's planning component is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.02      The proposed second education project would provide US$4.0 million
to assist in (a) increasing adult literacy and primary education in rural
areas under a community schools program; (b) strengthening education adminis-
tration and planning; (c) preparing projects in vocational training and forest
ranger training; (d) evaluating the community schools program; and (e) deter-
mining the feasibility of radio for formal and non-formal education.
1.03      The project was identified by Bank missions that visited Liberia
in April 1974 and November 1974, and was prepared jointly by the Bank, Unesco
and the Government. The appraisal mission, which visited Liberia in November
1975, comprised Messrs. R. Romain (general educator), G. Hadjicostas (civil
engineer) and W. Cooper (technical educator) and was joined by Mr. G. Abdi
(Loan Officer).
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   General
2.01      Liberia is a small country in terms of both area (111,000 km )
and population (1.5 million, growing at about 3.3% annually). Per capita GDP
is about US$333 and the annual growth rate in the economy over the past two
decades has been about 7%. The economy depends heavily on the GDP contribu-
tion of and employment in foreign enclaves, which contribute 42% of GDP (iron
ore 30%, rubber 9%, forestry 3%) but provide a livelihood for only 8%o of the
population. Subsistence agriculture accounts for about 25% of GDP and sup-
ports 70% of the population.  Trading at 10%, transportation at 7% and manufac-
turing at 5% account for most of the remainder of GDP. The non-enclave
private sector is characterized hy small-scale economic activities; there are
only about 100 enterprises which employ over 20 persons.



-2-
2.02      The urban elite -- the professional and managerial class which
constitutes only 5% of the population -- receives about 60% of the country's
total income. The remaining urban and other modern sector (concessions)
employment provides 15% of the country's income for 24% of its population.
However, the most urgent problem in Liberia is that the remaining 71% of the
population receives only 25% of the country's income. Over a million people
live in families whose per capita incomes are less than US$110. These low
incomes are due to low productivity, especially in the rural areas where the
population has not had adequate access to schools, health clinics and
agricultural extension work. It is this larger group of people with low
incomes -- "the under-employed" -- who are the intended beneficiaries of the
Government's proposed Drogram for decentrelization and rural development.
More jobs and better public services in the rural areas will be required to
improve the productivity and incomes of rural dwellers.
2.03      Unemployment has become a serious problem in Liberia in recent
years, particularly in Monrovia. A 1974 survey revealed that of the estimated
120,000 in the over-15 age group, 68,000 were in the labor force and 14,000
(21%) of them were unemployed and actively seeking work. While this survey
data almost certainly overstates the problem of unemployment because it does
not distinguish between those who find work at frequent intervals and those
who are unable to do so, the problem exists. If urban drift continues at
previous rates, the problem of open urban unemployment will persist, particu-
larly among secondary school leavers whose expectations as to type of job and
level of income may not be met by the economy, which is producing jobs at a
slower rate than the growth of secondary school leavers. Special measures
will therefore be introduced (para. 3.04) to improve the relationship between
the education and training system and the employment world.
B.   Manpower
2.04      The education and training system is not producing sufficient
Liberians with the technical, managerial and administrative skills to man the
economy at current levels of activity. At the same time the Government's
development plans, particularly for the long neglected rural areas of the
country, are severely constrained by the small supply of trained manpower and
by weak local public sector administration. A start has been made under the
first education project to determine manpower needs as a basis for planning in
education and training. Early results of this work show that Liberia's
education and training facilities are inadequate in terms of the quality of
output and the types and capacity of training and education provided. Man-
power planning work is continuing and as more detailed information becomes
available it will be possible to quantify training needs more accurately than
at present (Annex 2).
2.05      The shortfall of Liberians to manage the economy has been compen-
sated for over the past decade by technical assistance, the cost of which
has averaged about US$8 per Liberian per year. This technical assistance
has been concerned primarily with manning the economy rather than with
training Liberian replacements, andi Liberia is likely to remain dependent
upon technical assistance on an extensive scale for many years. There is



-3-
room for improvement in planning the efficient use of the available technical
assistance and in relating technical assistance programs more directly to
training Liberians to man the economy. Such measures would include a more
positive approach to supporting education and training projects within
Liberia and, on the part of both Government and technical assistance person-
nel, greater attention to counterpart training and fellowship schemes. The
project described in this report combines these approaches.
2.06      In its plans for manpower development the Government is particularly
concerned with training Liberians for public and private sector management
and in skills that will bring immediate benefits, notably those associated
with exploiting the country's mineral and forestry resources. This approach
is sound as much of the known natural resources could be exhausted over the
next 10 to 20 years and thereafter the growth of the economy will depend
more than ever on efficient management, particularly on the managers' ability
to conceive and establish new industries.
2.07      In pursuit of a rational manpower development policy, the Govern-
ment has:
(a) established a manpower planning unit within the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs which is developing
essential statistical reporting and evaluation systems;
(b) created a Civil Service Agency through which it has
inaugurated a program of public sector job classification,
an examination of the civil service structure, and a review
of the entire structure of public sector remuneration with
a view to establishing a public service career with an
effective and equitable system of incentives; and
(c) established an Institute of Public Administration for purposes
of upgrading middle and upper-level manpower in the public
sector by offering training courses and by providing consult-
ing and advisory services to Government ministries in a
variety of subject areas.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
3.01      The education sector suffers from a markedly uneven geographical
distribution of school places, inappropriate courses and weaknesses in
administration and planning. Public and private investment in educational
facilities was traditionally concentrated in Monrovia and the southeastern
counties of Sino and Maryland. Despite prog-ress achieved over the past
decade in expanding education to the remote areas of the country, the



-4-
six northwestern counties (excluding Monrovia) still have average primary
enrollment ratios of 40%,compared with the average of over 70% for Monrovia
and the southeastern counties. At the secondary level, the divergence is
most marked between Monrovia and the rest of the country: 40% of the 1974
candidates for the grade 9 national examination and 62% of the grade 12
candidates came from schools in Monrovia,which has only 15% of the population.
Out of the 1974 education budget,rural public primary and secondary pupils
cost US$23 and US$95, respectively, compared with US$54 and US$103, res-
pectively, for Monrovia public school pupils. Girls constitute 36% of
enrollment at primary level and 25% at secondary level. At primary level
the educational standards are low because of the poor quality of school
buildings, the shortage and unsuitability of books and other teaching
materials, the high percentage (77%) of underqualified or unqualified
teachers and the unsuitability of the curriculum. At secondary level,
laboratories and practical-subject rooms are generally lacking or ill-
equipped. At both primary and secondary levels,less than 3% of the budgetary
allocation is spent on materials and equipment (Annex 3).
3.02      In December 1975 the Government established a National Council for
Vocational and Technical Education and Training to: (a) plan, coordinate and
set policy for all Liberian public and private sector programs of vocational
training, technical education and industrial skills training; (b) formulate
guidelines and procedures for institutions operating vocational and technical
education and training programs; (c) recommend the allocation of funds for
training programs; and (d) establish vocational training standards, testing
procedures and criteria for certification. This important step, which places
responsibility for vocational training in the Ministry of Labor, should
clarify the differentiation between vocational training and technical
education. The Council will oversee the creation of an apprenticeship system
for which legislation is being prepared, and will include representatives
from the Ministries of Planning and Economic Affairs, Labor, Youth and Sports,
Education, and Agriculture, as well as from the labor unions and employers.
3.03      The Ministry of Education is responsible for primary, secondary
and technical education. It suffers from (a) problems of organizational
structure, (b) a shortage of well-qualified staff, (c) an inadequate budget-
ary allocation, especially in regard to supplies, and (d) a shortage of
vehicles for essential staff field work and transport of supplies. The over-
all Ministry budget of about US$13.3 million in 1974 was equal to 14% of the
national budget and 2.7% of GDP -- a relationship which is low relative to
that in other developing countries. The bulk of the budget is used to pay
staff salaries both in schools and in the administration. In 1975 the sub-
sectoral breakdown of the recurrent budget was as follows: central
administration, 16.7%; primary education, 28%; primary teacher training, 5.6%;
secondary education, 16.2%; vocational/technical education, 11.8%; higher
education, 19.3%; and adult literacy, 0.6%. Miscellaneous subventions
accounted for the remaining 1.7%. The relative allocations for primary
education and literacy are lower than in most other West African countries.



-5-
Development Strategy
3.04      The main outlines of the Government's development policy for the
sector are indicated in several recent actions.  The Educational Planning
Unit, with assistance from experts provided under the First Education Project,
has prepared a draft 10-Year Plan. In 1972, a national conference on curri-
cula was held which gave some targets for qualitative changes. A develop-
ment plan for the University of Liberia has been drawn up under the first
project and published. A community schools program and a rural teacher
training improvement program are being implemented under a UNDP financed
project, which has received support from UNICEF. The principal new dimensions
to the Government's education strategy are:
(a) the assumption of greater central government responsibility
for the provision of buildings, furniture, books, equipment,
trained teachers and an appropriate curriculum for primary
schools;
(b) closer links between secondary schools and the labor market;
(c) establishment of a management system for vocational training
which would ensure its relevance and responsiveness to the
labor market;
(d) provision of increased opportunities for literacy among
adults as part of a broad national effort to improve rural
productivity and living standards;
(e) training of middle-level forestry staff; and
(f) major improvements in the administrative and central
educational services.
3.05      At primary level, a community schools program is being implemented
to improve education in rural areas. This program provides improved physical
facilities for primary schools that can also serve as literacy centers in
the evening. The basic construction units (2,250 sq.ft.) are capable of
accommodating about 120 pupils; they are of simple modular design with
movable partitions, providing flexibility in classroom size and space utili-
zation. The units are built with cement blocks manufactured on the site and
with plain metal roof sheeting on termite-proof timbers. Construction and
maintenance lend themselves to self-help labor where available. The
Government has already provided places for 12,000 pupils under this program.
To participate in the program, rural communities should comprise at least 500
persons, be relatively deprived educationally and be willing to provide a
cleared site and at least 25 acres of agricultural land with easy access for
vehicles. Through this program, the Government plans to raise the national



-6-
enrollment ratio for the 6-11 age group from 63% in 1974 to about 82% by
1985 (including improved ratios for girls) by concentrating on the north-
western half of the country. To increase the output of suitably qualified
teachers, particularly women, the residential facilities for female students
will be expanded and the training course will be (a) changed from a three-
year post grade 9 to a one-year post grade 12 course at one of the two
teacher training institutes, and (b) oriented toward rural activities.
3.06      At the secondary level, the Government plans to continue its policy
of introducing more science and practical subjects and will evaluate the
impact of the two multilateral schools financed under the First Education
Project. As an exploratory arrangement, the Government plans to introduce a
technology course and home economics at lower secondary level with a view to
broadening lower secondary curricula so that the grade 9 output can be better
prepared to enter careers after suitable apprenticeships or further training.
At the senior high school level (grades 10-12) graduation requirements will
include a wider range of subjects and be brought more in line with the standards
of the other English-speaking West African countries. A slightly reduced
enrollment growth rate is expected at this level for the next ten years, with
most public investment for growth concentrated in rural areas. Improvements
will be made in examinations which will stimulate greater use of practical-
subject rooms. The Teachers College of the University will be strengthened
to coordinate with the specialized University departments, such as Science
and Technology and Liberal Arts, in producing secondary school teachers in
various disciplines.
3.07      The Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the National Council
for Vocational and Technical Education and Training, will undertake detailed
planning for each institution offering technical education, particularly the
Booker Washington Institute and the proposed Harper Technical College.
Emphasis will be placed on developing links with private and public employers
and use will be made of the tracer studies on graduates of technical education
programs which are being compiled by the manpower planning unit. Technical
aptitude testing will be introduced to assist in career guidance in secondary
and technical education.
3.08      The Government plans to establish a center for vocational training
in Monrovia to offer basic training and skill upgrading courses in the elec-
trical, mechanical and building trades. This center will be located in the
industrial park and will be a minimum-sized center providing about 200 places
in the following trades: machine shop, sheet metal, welding, auto repair,
electrical installation, refrigeration/air-conditioning, electro;tics/radic,
carpentry/joinery, plumbing/pipe-fitting and bricklaying/masonry. WThile its
justification is based on the skill upgrading needs of existing small indus-
tries in Monrovia which are unable to provide the quality of training needed,
the center would be expanded to meet additional needs as necessary. Pre-
liminary forecasts by the manpower planning unit are that additional skilled
personnel needed between 1974 and 1982 in the above fields will exceed 6,200,
which is well beyond the capacity of existing private and public sector



training programs. It is expected that the entering level of apprentices
would eventually be that of a new type of grade 9 graduate (para. 3.06).
3.09      The FAQ/World Bank Cooperative Program is helping the Government to
prepare a program to improve its forest administration, the success of which
depends on a sufficiency of appropriately trained forest rangers. In 1974,
within the framework of their Mano River Union Agreement for mutual cooperation,
Liberia and Sierra Leone agreed that forest ranger training should be under-
taken in Sierra Leone. However, in the light of the problems and delays in
establishing a suitable center in Sierra Leone and the need for Liberia to
proceed early with forest ranger training, the Union has postponed indefinitely
the idea of establishing its own center. Consequently, the Government of
Liberia, anxious to improve its supervision of forest exploitation, revenue
collection and administration of concession contracts, has decided to establish
a training center to begin meeting its need for additional forest rangers,
estimated at 400 by 1980.
3.10       In adult education, the central problem is that in the age group 15
years and above more than 85% of the women and 60% of the men, principally in
rural areas, are illiterate. Between 1971 and 1974 the Ministry of Education
established, with some UNDP and UNICEF assistance, 24 village evening literacy
centers in community schools staffed by part-time instructors, supplied with
free instructional materials and serving 600 adults. By 1976 the number of
centers is expected to reach 60. The objective of the literacy program is to
make the adults more receptive to the educational efforts of other ministries
such as Agriculture, Health and Community Development, thus improving their
living standards. For effectively supporting these centers, trained adult
education supervisors (one for each county), will be provided with transport
and audio-visual materials, thus serving as both administrators and educational
resource personnel.
3.11       In higher education, the Government is reviewing the UniversJtv of
Liberia's development plans in terms of manpower and cost implications. The
issues are (a) the feasibility of moving the main campus out of Monrovia, and
(b) a choice between consolidation on the one hand and expansion in t'e number
as well as    the range of disciplines offered on the other hand.  The
administrative services of the University are being strengthened under the
First Education Project.
3.12       To cope with its increasing responsibilities, the Ministry of
Education intends to revise its organizational structure and its procedures
for financial and personnel administration and for procurement and distri-
bution of educational supplies. To lead the system toward greater relevance
and higher standards, it will increase its work on curriculum development,
educational testing and the production of teaching materials. Efforts tc
revise curricula have suffered from a lack of full-time and specialized staff.



- 8 -
The testing and examinations service has not been able to influence examinations
decisively because of a lack of transport for staff field work and insufficient
qualified staff. Efforts to provide cheap, suitable textbooks have proved
unsuccessful: first, a rental scheme failed because of rapid physical deteri-
oration and loss of books; and second, the establishment of two separate units
for preparing and printing books has suffered from insufficient capital and
recurrent financing and from poor organization. The Ministry has therefore
decided to (a) establish a full-time curriculum development unit for con-
tinuous revision of curricula, (b) strengthen the testing services, and (c)
establish a single publications unit to produce inexpensive textbooks with
assured sources of financing.
3.13      The Government's strategy combines a modest expansion of facilities
with project preparation and planning for the period 1976-80. During this
period it plans to continue to expand the community schools program (para.3.05),
strengthen the Ministry of Education, establish more scientific and practical
programs at the lower and upper secondary levels and in primary teacher
training, expand vocational training, and establish a vocational training
center. As a basis for future development it would (a) evaluate the community
schools program and, later on, the new types of secondary schools and the
vocational training center; (b) examine the feasibility of radio in the
context of formal and non-formal education; and (c) develop priorities and
projects to expand education and training facilities.
Role of the Project
3.14      The second education project would assist the Government in (a)
supporting the on-going community schools program (paras. 3.05, 3.10, 4.02-
4.06); (b) strengthening the central administration and planning of the
Ministry of Education (paras. 3.12, 4.07-4.10); and (c) supporting the
measures being adopted to reorganize vocational training and to establish
centers to train craftsmen and forest rangers (paras. 3.02, 3.08, 3.09, 4.12
and 4.13).
3.15      The project is modest and aims only at reducing the unequal distri-
bution of educational opportunities and establishing a sound basis for future
education and training development. Its scope and aims take into account
the manpower available to implement and run the education system and the
Government's ability to meet recurrent costs. Its pre-investment and plan-
ning activities would lay the basis for more ambitious investments in the
future to deal with the serious deficiencies of the sector (paras. 3.01,
3.03).



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary
4.01      The proposed project would be implemented over the period 1976-79 and
comprises:
(a) Assistance to a community schools program, including:
(i) construction, furnishing and equipping of 100 prinary
school units in about 50 villages and the expansion and
improvement of a rural teacher training institute; 10
man-years of technical assistance and 12 man-years of
fellowships in primary teacher training;
(ii) 2 man-years of technical assistance, 10 man-years of
fellowships and equipment to establish an efficient
administrative system for adult education; and
(iii) 2-1/2 man-years of specialist services, equipment and
supplies to evaluate the program.
(b) Strengthening of the Ministry of Education, including:
(i) minor works for preparing a building for textbook
production; and
(ii) 14-1/2 man-years of technical assistance, 12 man-years
of specialist services, 25 man-years of fellowships,
equipment and supplies to effect administrative reform
and improve curriculum development, testing, textbook
production, planning and project administration, and a
feasibility study on educational broadcasting.
(c) Preparation of future projects, including:
(i) 1-1/2 man-years of technical assistance for vocational
planning and 4 man-years of fellowships for training
forest ranger trainers, and
(ii) funds for architectutal studies and design work on two
training centers -- one for tradesmen and craftsmen, the
other for forest rangers.



- 10 -
B. Project Composition
Community Schools Program
4.02      Primary School Units.  The project would finance the construction,
furniture, and equipment for 100 primary school units (para. 3.05), in the
counties of Bong, Lofa, Cape Mount, Grand Bassa , Montserrado and Nimba, pro-
viding 12,000 places (of which 4,000 would be additional). The sites have
been selected using the criteria outlined in para. 3.05 and agreed by the
Bank. Ownership of the sites will remain with the communities in accordance
with current practice, which has proved satisfactory. Construction cost
estimates include the full cost of labor and materials. The architectural
designs would be based on drawings for existing units that are being modified
in line with suggestions from the Bank. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that final and working drawings for primary
school units will be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.03      The Government wishes to employ the Cooperative for American Relief
Everywhere (CARE) as its executing agent for the construction of these units.
CARE, a non-profit corporation which has successfully constructed 35 community
schools for the Government under its on-going 1974-76 construction program,
aims to build up a local capability for implementing this construction program
and to develop and encourage self-help and private or community initiatives
at the village level. As an incentive to community effort, the value of any
contributions made by the community toward the construction of the school in
the form of labor or materials would be assessed and an equivalent value of
textbooks and other school supplies (normally provided by parents) would be
supplied to the individual schools concerned. CARE would also make a contri-
bution of not less than US$25,000 to train villagers in basic construction
skills. A draft contract between the Government and CARE was reviewed during
negotiations (para. 5.06).
4.04      Primary Teacher Training. For the Zorzor Rural Teacher Training
Institute (ZRTTI), the project would finance construction, furniture, 2
vehicles, equipment, 10 man-years of technical assistance and 12 man-years of
fellowships. Construction would comprise a new 70-place women's hostel, 3 new
staff houses, renovation of 2 staff houses and the demonstration school, a new
agricultural workshop, improvements/extensions to teaching spaces (for home
economics, arts and crafts, biology/agricultural science) and improvement to
water and electricity supply. Boarding capacity would be increased from 240
to 310 and enrollment from 300 to 370. The Government would recruit 5 teachers
financed under the project by direct hire under two-year contracts in the
fields of adult education, language arts, science, educational psychology and
mathematics. These teachers would replace departing volunteer bilateral aid
staff (US Peace Corps, UK Volunteer Service Overseas) until Liberian staff can
be trained. The Institute would establish an extension service to (a) coordinate
with satellite primary schools in which its students would do practice teaching,
and (b) set up a tracer system on all graduates which will show both where



- 11 -
they go and, in the case of those teaching in primary schools, how they per-
form as teachers in the light of their training. The Institute would finalize
the curriculum for the new one-year post grade 12 course to replace the three-
year post grade 9 course and would incorporate adult education techniques in
this curriculum. The organization and functioning of the extension service
would be reviewed with the Bank within two years of loan signing, and the
detailed curriculum would be satisfactory to the Bank. For the new buildings
(hostel, staff houses ard agricultural workshop) the approved first project
designs would be adapted by the first project consultants, who would also
supervise construction. Retroactive financing of about US$10,000 is recom-
mended for work carried out by the consultants between negotiations and loan
signing.
4.05      Adult Education.   The project would finance 2 man-years of technical
assistance, 10 man-years of fellowships, and 10 vehicles to strengthen the
adult education service and to support the administration of literacy centers
in each of Liberia's nine counties (para. 3.10). The Ministry of Education's
Publications Unit would provide audio-visual materials for the literacy program.
Classes would be held in existing community schools as well as in those to be
buiit urder this project, and would be taught by primary school teachers sup-
ported by traveling supervisors trained under the project. The adult education
specialist would assist in (a) establishing administrative organization and
methods for the supervision and guidance of the literacy centers; (b) preparing
detailed plans for the growth of the centers; (c) preparing suitable teaching
materials and basic literacy tests; (d) evaluating the program; and (e) train-
ing local staff. A trained adult education supervisor would be assigned to
each county.
4.06      Evaluation.  The project would finance the evaluation of the entire
community schools program by providing office equipment and supplies, and a
vehicle and fuel for field work, which will be undertaken by the Research
Division of the Ministry of Education in cooperation with other relevant agencies
such as the Educational Facilities Office, the University and ZRTTI. The aim
would be to monitor in particular (a) the effectiveness of the new one-year
teacher training program; (b) the efficiency and impact of the design of the
primary school units; (c) the socio-economic profile of communities in relation
to the success of the community school and self-help concept; and (d) thelin-
guistic ccoitext of the literacy program. To assist in refining the design and
mectodology of evaluation and in analyzing data, the project would finance the
services of specialists in education, sociology and linguistics. The terms of
reference and timetable of the evaluation have been agreed between the Govern-
ment and the Bank. The evaluation report would be reviewed with the Bank within
three years of loan signing.
Strengthening the Miristry of Education
4.07      Administrative Reform.  The project would finance 4 man-years of
technical assistance to assist the Ministry of Education in conducting a



- 12 -
thorough review of its structure, organization, procedures and methods of
operation; 2 man-years for a Ministry of Education staff member to assist in
the review; 3 man-years of fellowships for training two persons in account-
ancy/business management; 10 man-months of fellowships for training two persons
in procurement techniques; two vans for improving the distribution of supplies
to the community schools; and office equipment for establishing a personnel
records system. The Institute of Public Administration would employ the
specialists and relay to the Ministry the following specified services:
(a) analysis of the responsibilities (terms of reference) and
operations of the Ministry;
(b) assessment of the optimal organizational arrangements and
staff positions required for discharging these responsibilities;
(c) an inventory of staff resources within the Ministry, its
projected growth and attrition, and staff development
requirements;
(d) identification of improved methods and systems of operation,
particularly in the fields of personnel and financial
administration, and the initiation of staff into these
new systems;
(e)  preparation of an implementation plan, including identification
of legislative, policy and budgetary requirements for imple-
menting the reorganization and reforms, and a comprehensive
draft of an education law and regulations as well as operational
manuals;
(f) identification and preparation of projects for administrative
improvement.
Agreement has been reached between the Government and the Bank on the nature,
scope and timing of the Institute's services to the Ministry. The Ministry
of Education would assign a member of the staff of the Ministry to work with
the Institute team on the study. The Government and the Bank would review
the findings and recommendations of the specialists' work and consult on the
introduction of measures for improving administration.
4.08      Curriculum, Testing, Publications. The project would finance:
(a) Technical assistance totaling 6 man-years (1.5 man-years for a
curriculum development coordinator, 6 man-months for a technology
syllabus specialist, and 2 man-years each for a testing specialist
and a publications specialist);



- 13 -
(b) Fellowships totaling 16 man-years for training Liberians (3 man-
years to train 3 curriculum developers, 4 to train 2 technology
teachers, 3 to train 3 staff members as testing specialists, and
6 to train editorial staff, a book production manager, typesetters,
photographers and equipment maintenance staff);
(c) Equipment and supplies for publications and four vehicles for
staff field work and transport of publications supplies and
materials;
(d) Minor works for the adaptation and air-conditioning of the
publications building;
(e) Salaries of specialists in syllabus and textbook preparation
to expedite the programs in those fields.
4.09      The specialist in curriculum development would assist in coordi-
nating this task and in establishing methods of operating the curriculum
development unit. The specialist in technology would prepare a syllabus for
grades 7 - 9 and advise on technological orientation at other levels. The
specialist in testing would assist in developing the testing and examination
programs of the Ministry, in particular assisting in (a) devising appropriate
test batteries for basic literacy and primary education, (b) improving the
grade 9 and grade 12 national examinations to reflect new directions of the
curriculum, and (c) developing pre-testing and selection of test items and
the analysis of and research on test results. The specialist in publications
would assist in planning, programming and coordinating the activities of the
publications unit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within
one year of loan signing, the Government will prepare and discuss with the
Bank a detailed program for textbook production for the succeeding three-year
period and that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made by
December 31, 1976, for (a) the operation of a replenishment fund with assured
sources of financing for renewal of printing and production supplies and
equipment, and (b) the distribution of books.
4.10      Educational Planning. The project would finance 27 man-months of
technical assistance, including specialists in educational planning (12
months), technical education (12 months) and educational radio broadcasting
(3 months). The project would also finance 5 man-years of fellowships to
train three Liberians in educational planning. The educational planner would
coordinate the finalizing of the draft long-range plan prepared under the
First Education Project. The technical education planner would plan the
dexelcpment of the technical education system in cooperation with the
vocational planning specialist (para. 4.12) and undertake detailed planning
for all technical education courses and institutions. The terms of reference
of the educational broadcasting feasibility study have been agreed between
the Government and the Bank.



- 14 -
4.11      Project Administration.  The project would provide 6 man-months of
technical assistance to finance a deputy project director to assist the
project director in implementing the first and second education projects.
This would be an extension of an existing position financed under the first
project. The project would also finance 24 man-months of technical assistance
for an architect to assist in (a) the design and implementation of the con-
struction and furnishing of the primary school units, (b) educational planning,
and (c) the planning and programming of the maintenance requirements of the
Ministry of Education. Retroactive financing of about US$30,000 is recommended
for the period from January 1, 1976 to loan signing to cover the cost of the
architect to complete primary school designs.
Preparation of Future Projects
4.12      Vocational Training.  The project would finance 18 man-months for a
specialist in vocational planning to assist the Government in (a) establishing
a national system of vocational training under the newly created National
Council for Vocational and Technical Education and Training, (b) planning
suitable programs for the training and upgrading of skilled workers, and (c)
finalizing plans and adapting equipment lists for a vocational training center.
The terms of reference have been agreed among ILO, the Government and the Bank.
Retroactive financing of about us$20,000 for the period March 1, 1976 to
loan signing is recommended. The project would also finance the preparation,
by January 1977, of preliminary designs and advanced cost estimates for the
vocational training center.   The PIU would prepare an architectural brief by
July 1976 to expedite the design work.
4.13      Forest Ranger Training.  The project would finance  (a) 4 man-years
of fellowships to train two Liberians in forest ranger training techniques,
and (b) architectural services for preparing preliminary designs for a forest
ranger training center. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that it will exchange views with the Bank on a schedule to
strengthen its forest administration, including institutional improvements
and related training of forest rangers.



- 15 -
C. Project Costs - Financing
4.14      The cost of the project is estimated at US$5,4 million, net of
taxes and customs duties. The distribution of project costs by major category
of expenditure is given in Annex 4(a), and the breakdown by project item is
summarized as follows:
Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
% of
Base
Local  Foreign  Taxes  Total   Cost
(net of taxes)
Project Item
A. Community Schools Program                 0.86    1.83    0.71   3.40   63.8
(a) 100 modular primary school units         0.65    1.08    0.55   2.28   42.8
(b) Improvements and expansion of            0.17    0.53    0.13   0.83   15.6
Zorzor Rural Teacher Training
:nstitute
(c) Adult Education Service                  0.03    0.19    0.02   0.24    4.5
(d) Evaluation                               0.01    0.03    0.01   0.05    0.9
B.  Ministryf Education                      0.23    1.30    0 .-1   1.71   32.1
(a) Administrative Reorganization            0.05    0.23    0.02   0.30    5.6
(b) Curriculum - Testing -                   0.15    0.93    0.14   1.22   22.9
Publications - Planning
(c) Project Administration                   0.03    0.14    0.02   0.19    3.6
C. Preparation of Future Projects            0.05    0.16    0.01   0.22    4.1
(a) Vocational Training                      0.04    0.12    0.01   0.17    3.2
(b) Forest Ranger Training                   0.01    0.04       -    0.05    0.9
Base Cost Estimate                      1.14    3.29    0.9(i   5.3`  100.0
Physical Contingencies                   0.03    0.07    0,03   0.13    2.4
Expected Price Increases                 0.26    0.64    0.21   1.11   20.3
Expected Cost of Project                 1.43    4.00    1-14   6.57  123.2



- 16 -
4.15      The cost estimates for the Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute
are based on building pr:ices and transport costs prevailing in Monrovia in
November 1975, updated to April 1976. The primary schools cost estimates
are based on an analysis of the costs experienced by CARE for the construction
of such schools in its 1974-76 construction program (para. 4.03). The
estimated base line cost (April 1976), net of taxes per square meter of gross
area. is: primary schools, US$60; staff houses, US$150; boarding accommodation,
US$200; and workshops, US$160. Monrovia was taken as a reference point and
appropriate cost adjustment factors have been applied depending upon the
location of the project institutions. These unit costs compare favorably with
those of neighboring countries, particularly in the case of primary schools.
Site development of about 20% of the construction costs has been included in
the case of ZRTTI, while for the primary schools no allowance for site
development has been incorporated in the building costs because the communities
will provide prepared sites (para. 3.05). The cost of furniture, equipment
and vehicles has been estimated on the basis of provisional lists and November
1975 prices adjusted to April 1976. The cost of technical assistance, totaling
28 man-years, is estimated to average about US$40,000 per man-year (of which
US$27,003 is estimated to be for salaries). These costs are based on the
m-ost recent experience of ILO, Unesco and the Government in recruiting
technical assistance personnel for Liberia.
4.16      The cost oF t-e project, net of taxes, by major category of
expenditure is as follows:
(US$ million)
Local  Foreign Total  of Total
Civil Works                                 0.65    0.98   1.63   36.8
Architects' Fees                            0.04    0.09   0.13    2.9
Furriture                                   0.14    0.32   0.46   10.4
qui-ment                                    0.06E   0.55   0.61   13.8
Scecialist Services                         0.25    0.94   1.19   26.9
Fellowships                                  .      0.41   0.41    9.2
Ease Line Cost                        1.14    3.29   4.43  100.00
Physical Contingencies                              0.07   0.1C    2.3
Expected Price Increases                    0.26    0.64   0.90   2C.3
Total Project Cost                    1.43    4.00   5.43  122.6
4.17      Contingencies. The cost of the project includes an allowance for
physical contingencies of 10% for c:ivil works and professional services for
the primary teacher training institute. For the primary schools the physical
contingency allowance is 5%; this is lower than for other project construct-
ion because the design incorporates the experience of earlier corstruction
of these schools. For office and school equipment an allowance of 5% is
made for physical contingencies. The allowance for local and foreign price
escalation is estimated to be about 20% of the base cost estimate plus
physical contingencies. Details of contingency and price escalation calcu-
lations are in Annexes 4(b) and 4(c)).



- 17 -
4.18      Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component amounts
to about US$4.0 million, or 74% of the total projecct cost of US$5.4 million,
net of taxes. This has been calculated as follows: civil works, 60%; fur-
niture, 70%; equipment, 90%; professional fees, 70%; technical assistance 88%
and fellowships, 100%. Local currency expenditure would amount to approxi-
mately US$1.4 million, or 26% of the total project cost.
Financing the Project
4.19      The proposed loan would finance the project's foreign exchange
costs,and the balance of the project costs would be financed by the Government.
Retroactive financing is recommended up to a maximum of US$60,000 to cover:
(a) architectural consultant fees for ZRTTI (US$10,000 - para. 4.04);
(b) the services of an educational architect, for the period
January 1, 1976 to loan signing (US$30,000 - para. 4.11);
(c) the services of a vocational training planner for the period
March 1, 1976 to loan signing (US$20,000 - para. 4.12).
Project Recurrent Costs
4.20      By full development in 1983, the project would increase recurrent
expenditures of the Ministry of Education by about US$400,000 (1976 terms),
accounting for about 1.3% of the Ministry's budget for that year. The annual
per student costs at ZRTTI would remain the same at US$930, the greater
economies of scale being offset by needed improvements in services.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Project Administration. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
est:ablished for the first project within the Ministry of Education would be
responsible for project implementation, thus exploiting the successful
experience it has already gained in Bank/IDA project implementtation pro-
cedures. The PIU would be assisted by staff in the Government ministries
and agencies concerned with the second project. The Ministry of Education
would nominate and assign liaison responsibilities to officials responsible
for the primary school building program, primary teacher training, adult
education, research, central administration, curriculum development,
educational testing, publications and educational planning. The Ministry
of Labor, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
would also assign officials to be responsible for liaison on vocational
training, and the Ministry of Agriculture would do the same for forest ranger
training. Their responsibilities would include professional judgments, quality
control and integration of the project with on-going activities. One



- 18 -
accountant and one procurement specialist trained under the project would be
assigned to the PIU. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that the PIU will be staffed by (i) a Director whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to the Bank, (ii) two deputy directors, (iii) an architect, (iv) an account-
art, (v) a procurement specialist, and (vi) support staff. The Project
Director would be responsible for:
(a) general supervision of all aspects of implementation of
the second project;
(b) coordination with the units/agencies/ministries involved
in the second project to ensure timely implementation;
(c) supervision of technical assistance personnel and
evaluation of their effectiveness in achieving required
objectives; and
(d)  collection ana preparation of data for an evaluation of
the project.
5.02      Ar.. architect acceptable to the Bank has been appointed for the
design and supervision of primary school construction. The Government has
almost completed arrangements to appoint architects acceptable to the Bank
for the design of ZRTTI,and has initiated its search for architects to pre-
pare preliminary designs for the vocational training center and the forest
ranger training center (paras. 4.04, 4.12 and 4.13).
5.03      Specialist Services and Fellowships. The specialist services
component of the project includes technical assistance, as follows:
(a) 48 man-months for the Institute of Public Administration,
to be recruited by that Institute;
(b) 18 man-months in vocational planning for the Ministry of
Planning;
(c) 120 man-months for teacher trainers to serve at ZRTTI,
to be recruited by the Ministry of Education;
(d) 153 man-months to be recruited by the Ministry of Education
for its units, as follows: Division of Adult Education (24),
Bureau of Planning and Research (51), Division of Curriculum
Development (24), Publications Unit (24), Division of
Testing (24) and PIU (6) (Annex 5).



- 19 -
Technical assistance personnel, under terms of reference that have been agreed
between the Government and the Bank, would be required to train local counter-
part personnel. The project would also finance Liberian specialists to
evaluate the community schools program (30 man-months), assist in adminis-
trative reform (24 man-months) and prepare syllabi (48 man-months) and text-
books (72 man-months). Most of these specialists wcu.ld be seconded from their
regular positions to work on the project. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will:
(a) employ, as specialists and technical assistance personnel,
persons whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment are acceptable to the Bank;
(b) award fellowships to suitably qualified persons, enroll
them in training programs approved by the Bank, provide
an appropriate budget and positions to absorb the trained
personnel, and require them to serve at least two years
in the positions for which they were trained.
5.04      Sites.  The sites for all project primary school units have been
selected by the Government according to criteria agreed with the Bank (para.
4.02). The sites for all works at ZRTTI already belong to the Ministry of
Education.
5.05      Procurement. Civil works for the teacher training institute
amounting to US$300,000, furniture valued at US$609,000, and equipment valued
at US$742,000 would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The renovation of two
staff houses for the ZRTTI staff (US$34,000) and minor works for adapting
and air-conditioning the publications unit (US$50,000) would be undertaken
on force account by the ZRTTI staff and by the Ministry of Public Works,
respectively. Furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items which cannot
be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent each, or which are
not suitable for international competitive bidding, may be procured on the
basis of quotations in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the
total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
5.06      The Government plans to construct the 100 primary  school units,
valued at US$1.74 million, using CARE as its executing agent (para. 4.03).
This arrangement would ensure continuity between the on-going  1974-76
primary schools program, under which CARE has successfully constructed 35
such schools for the Government, and the primary school component of the
project. CARE, whose costs are 50% of those quoted by commercial contractors
for comparable buildings, has proved itself to be efficient in this type of
construction; it offers its services and experience to stimulate local self-
help and its expertise and a financial contribution of US$25,000 to train



- 20 -
villagers in basic construction skills. CARE would employ and train local
personnel in building management, particularly site supervision, procurement,
and mobilization of community support; Government would employ such persons
on satisfactory completion of their training assignments.    These provisions
will be included in an agreement between the Government and CARE, a draft of
which was discussed during negotiations and which also includes provisions
for:
(a)  a revolving fund, established and funded by the Government,
to prefinance CARE's operations;
(b) the phasing of the construction program;
(c) the establishing and review of costs;
(d) the maintenance of records by CARE on community participation.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the
agreement will be acceptable to the Bank.
5.07      Disbursements. The funds from the loan account would be disbursed
as follows:
(a) 45% of civil works expenditures;
(b) (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
furniture and equipment;
(ii) 80% of expenditures for locally procured furniture and
75% of expenditures for locally procured equipment;
(c) 70% of expenditures for consultants' services;
(d) 80% of expenditures for technical assistance;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships.
US$0.7 million would be unallocated. All disbursements would be made against
satisfactory documentation. Any funds remaining undisbursed at the completion
of the project would be cancelled. An implementation schedule and estimates
of disbursements are at Annexes 6-8.



- 21 -
VI. AGREEMENTS PEACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that:
(a) final and working drawings for the primary school units
(para. 4.02) and the contract for the construction of
these units (paras. 4.03 and 5.06) will be satisfactory
to the Bank;
(b)  the Government will prepare and review with the Bank,
within one year of loan signing, a plan for the production
of textbooks for the succeeding three-year period and, by
December 31, 1976, will make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for (i) the operation of a replenishment fund with
assured scurces of financing for :_reT7ral of printing
and production supplies and equipment, and (ii) the
distribution of books (para. 4.09);
(c) it will exchange views with the Bank on a schedule of measures
to strengthen its forest administration, including institu-
tional improvements and related training of forest rangers
(para. 4.13);
(d) the PIU will be staffed by (i) a Project Director whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment will be satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) two
Deputy Project Directors, (iii) a Project Architect, (iv)
a Project Accountant, (v) a Project Procurement
Specialist,and  (vi) suFport staff (para. 5.01);
(e) it will employ, as specialists and technical assistance
personnel, persons whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.03);
(f) it will award fellowships to suitably qualified persons,
enroll them in training programs approved by the Bank,
provide an appropriate budget and positions to absorb the
trained personnel, and require them to serve at least two
years in the positions for which thev were trained (pera.5.03).
6.02      Retroactive financing is recommended for (a) US$10,000 for work
carried out by the consultants between negotiations and loan signing for the
primary teacher training component (para. 4.04); (b) US$30,000 for an
architect to complete designs for the primary schools between January 1, 1976
and loan signing (para. 4.11); and (c) US$20,000 for a vocational training
specialist betweern March 1, 1976 and loan signing (para. 4.12).



- 22 -
6.03      On the basis of the above assurances, the proposed project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for a Third Window Loan of US$4.0 million for a
period of 25 years, including a seven-year grace period.



COMPARATrVE  EDUCAT)IUN INDI1C0TORS                                                     4NNEX 
m.ssszsuusushhu:ssuaun~~~..:nsuzz                                              Page 1 of 2
C JANUARY 9, 2976 I
*        2        I           I          2                  I         I         I           I       2            2            I         2       2        I
I        i GNP9/  2 I GNP   23 TDTAL1%   OF PUBSLIC  I                I         I           IPRI,  IAV.PRI.   2                I        iSEC   i         I
I        2CAPCTA2  !IEVOTE02PU9LIC  I EDUCATION    oLITER-  2tPRI,  ,CONPLE-  iSTU-  9SCH.TEACH42P9RnGESS.I SEC.  3STU-  2                               I
I        I  AT   2 TO E0U.t  FXP.  I RECLIRRENT    mOOT               2ENROLL2TIUN          IDENTS2OALARY  INI)OON RATE *ENRULL2OENTOeINGH4EQU
2        0'ARKETt CPilBL2C2OEVOTED:EXP  ALLDCAED:   RATE :QATIO  IRATE FORPIPER   IRELATIDN  2FIOOm PRIaRATOO   IPE9   IENRnLL:
I POOP. iPRICES: EXP.    2  TO    2              TDOg       I(% OF   I NFI   tPA130.2CH. 0E0CH   TO 0.NP/ 2)20 SFC.   2 NFT   t2EACH.  RAT11,
093(0003  2 3  (391)2  04LYI   I  EOU. 11P92*  SEC. .41.:AnULTS)c 23)   iCYCLECOIER    I CAPITA   I  (31                         I (1)   2ER    I (5)   I
I        I        I2                     I 2                2I                  I           I       I            I            I         2       2        I
I (I) to   (2)  2   (3)    I   (A)   2           (          I  (61   2I(7)   2   (A)    2 (9)            (10)    I (tI)       2(12)   1(13)  2(10)   2
AUS-TRIA          73    7.SC 2,AIoc          4.3      9.9       070   250   200    99         9A         93         26         2.0        99         5t        t9       A,00
CAW460            72   21I. 8    0, 040      7 .7    29,4       30    39    19       99        99        991        20         2 .0        99        82        27       9.00
GERMANY F.REP.72   62I.6b 1 3,59)0           0.2    10.2        ..    74** Pep    99           92        99         33       . ..          99        91        22      17.0000
JAPAN             72  1016.90  2,5230C       0.3    P0.7        39    39    22       99       990        99C        25C        2 .0        (99       900D      20C    2S. 0)0D
4E2.H00LA050      72   23.1   7,90)          9*5    Iq.IG    32    05    9          99       95         95         29         3.0         97        73        20      11.00
JE0.  tFALON3    7 3     2.90  P,5600        3.2    ..          39    20    0 9      9 9      99         99         26       ...          9 9        67        2 9     20.100
0C19NAo           7 2     .9   3,503         7 . 0    15.2      S59    2 3    1 3    9 9      99         990        2 0        3,.9        99        7 6       104     I  1.0 0
soEDEN            73    9.10  o,093o         8.9    16.0        lb    18    23       99       9o         99         27       ...           90        9-5       In      50.00
J.~~~~.       70~~T   55.9SC P.6n0C     5 ,9    1 3 .9.9.        .I ..           7        99         ...       29                                so ** 59 )
3. ,0,           72  209.9   5,590          6 .0    15.0       ...   73** 2 7       99       99         99        25U        2.0         ..         9 3      192       9.
0REECF            72    9.00  I ,'1630       2. 2    2t.1I      50Y  290   100    A2A         9%0Y        .         320       ...          700       5A0       030    1 2. 03
IRELANDO          72    3.3   2,590A         5 .2I    23,90    45Y   42 1     004   99I       97         990        35       ...           950        75       l 9      7,000
PORT.IG00         72    9 .7      7 30.9100..                   ..    .        .     ...       RIY       ...  ......                       . . .      6300     . . .    7.b0Y
SPAIN             71 t3.SC  1I IOTnC         2. 08   15 .20A    093   220   150    94A        920A       .          350       . ..          .         PQ20     la       6.00A
ALESIA       ~~~~~73   24.20    Q300    9.0 0A.             ) . 4  32    1 6    25 A      67        96         03         6.0         37         199      26       3 .50
SENT N  ~     73    2.00      1 hOC     5 .3    32.0       0 7    23    1 0      21       3209       7 0       50so      2 .0 0F  43 9            79      090i     0.0000
SO TSwA NA        79   0. I       30(0       5.0    2 0 .0      39    20    IS5      25        700       75         15         5 .0        24         110x     1 A      0.300
R9RU 1J071        7 2    3 .        6). ..2709 X                                                          .F        369      ...           .           2090   I100    0.25901
CA0EQ00701         73    6.4 C    246C       5.9     20.         90 20    7                    74          .        5200      ..            .                  23 Cr    0."0cy
0 . . 0.          70    1.6C    ISn C        0.05   2 0. 0      56    29    ..         ..      60C0      25         65C3      . ..         29          50      2790    0.000
CHOA              75    .0c         000      3.0    10. 0       70    22       0     15        29x0Y      30        65BY      15            0          2Y00   30        0. 0100
01ONGI r9 I       70S     .3SC    3000       6.9      t 6.04    059Y 3590  2590   507      2390          .          63        *.            ;.        2        030      P.0005
ET-411P2A         73   25.90        go       3 .2    20a. 0     42    29    Is        7        270       02         50         3.0    0   "                   00       0.70:p
00A9751            73    0.50      90)(0     5.0    2 0. 6      25      9    I22     . ..    tu  29000   2C         .06 3c5.0              290        200      21C      1.4OCY
;MAINA            71    9.10      1000       0.7    24.4DR   390  1250   23)           .      56000    62           30C0     ...           14         220      1600    0.7090
(0390  C]J00T    72    .0 a       3O         6. 1    24.7       278Y 339Y 130         NA      5?         570        06        ,.            .          0       25       1299Vy
IHENO*            73   12.20       2700      6.0    27,0        63    II    11       00      2059K        ...       00o        9.0         10         12       23        2.0090
LESl0THrl          73    - 0.901    g0       0.7    22.0        45C   19C   20C    00          65        ...       045         *.           .                  22       0.03
L29ER00           701   2.6        hO3C      2 .7    2 3 .9     25    23    22       . ..      59        . ..       39         2.           .         20       Po        2.2000A 
A&L,kAl       70    0.70      20D0      S.2    00.0 .75..    .                ..          560        60        50         7.0         00 (I0              20        O.p600
4ALT         ~~70    5.10      700      0.6N   32.3        368   529i  129    10          29         27        00        20.0         37          a       27        0.2600
44Jokt1"20        70   2~1.20    297 0o.5    221. 0.2..                      ..      I0        150       ..         22         . ..        . ..        3       24
WA0.1920T1,9j     72    0.9       00         3 .7    I17        7       0     4      s0        96        99         3I..                   ..         2        30       100
MOR)OCCO          70   (5.90    2700         5.00    26 .5      90    07      9      267      Sax        22         37         . ..        St         23K      221      2.0
0130010A          72   69.50      2300       3.PrN   ...        4000   20A   200    ...        39XCY    *...        300Y       ...         ...         4       2000    0.3700
RI, h00           73    3.70        6000    3.2C   09.0    ..   ..  .         ...    23        52        . . .      s          ...2                               s     02C
E IE  G A L       72I    0.0  0   500        0. 0   21.50DR   390   020    50 A      2I0       09        ..                   ... ..                  20       5       17200
02E99A LEI)NF   73    2.70    1900C          3,0     23,        024        36    10  25?       300       05s        32         ;.OE        69         20       22 i     '  0S SA 
50O4AL20          7 3    2.90       - 900    ...      7 .0      5 7    I26    1 3     5        2 3       9 2        35       25.0          05          3       I29      1.0
01170A0           72 26S.35       220        0,5    2 3. 2      0 3    29    29      1 5       3g        7 5        '45        0 .0        25         1 1      2 0      1 .730
SWAIILAN)         72    0.00    2 60         0 .30A   19.7      37    26    15       29       6Id        2 2        39l        7 .0        ..         2600    20A         .0
T A It  A   I     70   (3.20    2100~        5 .2I    27. 0     3 6    ...   1 2     6 3       000   ..  .~    09               . ..        7          2       PIC      0. 3
7302941*           0)7A   3 5.30   1900      6.3    20.0        3 7    93    198     5 5       7        al         01a        6.0         32         1L 20  22          3.0
OGA41 A)          7 n.10n.0    2300 so       5,7     27 .609   000   2 23   250r   250         09000V    . ..       36                .~   14A         0000   22        8.5990
UPPER0  V1%TA    72    5.6          60       0,0    23,9        65    10       6       5       20        ...        oS        19.0         20          2       23        0.0190
Z0290             7I    2 3 .0    1 27       S.2C4 21. JC    54C   17C   290    1s             63        39         000A       6.0         03          9       20        0.9693
70 40)0           73    0.50      30cC       5.6    26.5        00    22    1 0      05       950        .          50         ..          20         251      2)       0 .4000
CE011AL  0409200  000  0.49 008299006
0(2570  0)0A      71    2.0S~ .2    22.1                        57    25    12       99        9600      65         29          3 .0       59P        22CY    25       12.1200
7r2423200'   90P.72    0 .2       090        2.5    15 S. S     02       20    22    51       90         2 17       50          3.00       6 3        23       20        7 .0 0
EL RALVA070    75    3.70         3oCC       3.6 0, 3.9         61      5    22      5900    71000       . ..       3900        . ..       . ..       loOCO   2200    0.359o
GiUATEMALA        73     53.60    0200       2.9    26.0        55    23    00    047          60        26         35          3.0a       65          9       25        0.099
.4A0I0T           72   0.0        1 30       0.9      6.60    A        I I1    a     209       22        25?        05          5.0        50          3       23        2 .00?
-14fl9Otj9q       72    2 .7      3 20       0.9    26.50)   60    2 3    29         52        92 I      19I        37          6.0        75         100      10        3 . 00
JA44TC0           72    1 .       920RI      6.50    29 .7      310Y  220    70y   96        20600       . ..       52          .           ..        3200     2 9       0,79Y
mE XIc 0l         70   50.10    ?SAC         2. 6     9,.3      54    20   I2a       76        721       32         0 6         3.          3         1        2 3       63200v
4124A9GU1&        70    2.20    630A         2.5    28I .2      61    23    2 3      57        65        22         37          a.0        93         17       20        7. 0
79260090  1, 0. 72    2.00        0000c      5,2     293.9      93    27    22       90        950       97         35          0.         15         019      25        2.5600
31230.4 090100Ic
OR'OCL            70   98.20    5100         9 .1    1 2.0 0c    2    20       37    79        900        ..        2700         . . .     . ..       19        1500SC   6.005
CHILF             72   1 0 .0     90n0       L 0.,0   106I        00   50000                   200  ..by.           3790         ...(a   .....I.      09000 .  7B
Cfll17482A        70   23.00    40000            )  0,3 2. 9    35    29 a    20     7 3       6 7        20        36          0.          o         2         20        ,0
FC JAIrOR         72    6.5       360        3 .7    ?7.7C    0500  0200  1000   69            72         . . .     38           I. ..                19        10       0,97TY
0110050           70    0.70       0000      59.R    14. 2070    47    35    to      93AS      920        39        03          6.0        19q        620      20        1 . 00
PARAGUAY          70    2.00      3200          .A ,9  7,.9     57    is    25       92 I      99         26        29           2.9       65         is  250   1        0. 00
PE 0u             71 114. 10      5200       4  0,9    7014     90I s  22    2 5     7 2       930        39        3900         3 .0      70         30       2300   12.00
VE'JEZbOL         7 3 t 1.2I0   12000        0,.6    19.9       300   29 J   350f   770        92I        . ..      3 3         2.0        ...        3 3       ...    10.6300



COMPARATIVE EOUCATION  1NOICATORS   (CONTI)                                       ANNEX I  PAGE2
2332133:332333233222:33323:;:                                         o~~~~~~~~~~~f 2
(JANUARY 9. 2976)
I      G'AP' I I GNP   at TOTALIX   OF PUBLIC a                        I          :PRI*  IAV.PRI.   3             3        ISEC   3        a
a       ICAPITAI DEVOTFDaPURLIC  a EDUCATION    ILITER- 2PRO.  CICOPLE.  ISTU.  aSCN*TEACHsPPGROES3-j SEC. ?STU-I                               I 
a   AT   : TO EnO.:   loP. IRECURkRENT    EACY                2ENROLL:TlIN        IDENTSISALAPY INIION RATE IENBT3LL3DENTSIRIGHERI
I       IMARKETI  (PIJBLICIDEVOTEMIEXP ALLOCATEC,   RATE IRATID IRATE FORIPER  IRELATION tFRnAM PRI,IRATIO IPER   IERBOLL,
i POP, jPRICEBI EXP,    I  TO)   I            TI:       3(1 OF   I NET   IPRI.SCN.lTEACHI  TO GNPI' iTO SEC.   a MET   aTEACH- RATIO,
VRI (I0D00) a (UISS)g  ONLY)   a  EDtl. aPRIl  SEC. MI.aADULTSIi (ID   ICYCLE(I)IER    u CAPITA   .  (%I                  * (I)   $ER    a (3) I
I            I          3         a                 A         I        I          I      I            I            I       3       I       I
* TI) maI   (2 1 a   3)    a  (A)   1         (3)       a (6)    I (7)   I  (a)   * (9) a      10)        I I (        I1)  aO2)   3 (1 3 I '(104)   I
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AANGLAOEVO  7)  ~~72.SC       C Inc  1.      0.?. .    .....             753      563       . ..      AS          ..         .         sA      29      ...
CMI'vA(TATWAN) 73   23.1:'   a9DC         1. 3    I'* .o    8    '2    72      aZ       95        94       '*0        1A.D       RuA       55       26      5.00
IN)IA            71 563.SC    lIST        2.650                          ..... . . 9     79X                  l          . ... 43AG8    2OAY    2.DOY
INDONESI 7173D                  IO        I,0    33.        63    23    1       6        b3        40        32         I. 3                3        I6       70
IRAN             73  29,NjC    usoc       3 .3    22.6      500t  95   120    s0        77        14A       32         S.018    80A        0I      32       A1.32CY
IRAnl            77    20.1     3 70      6. 7    6.3r0R.........              726      61CY      .. .      27         ...       ...       2'*XCY  26        6.2RCY
TOIO0oo          73    ?.AC    POet       7.0n     0.B     92    Is    71       59      9 1%       76        38         5.0(      8*1       sox      22      0.00
KOREA            73  02.3SC   floG          2.9  19,3      60    26      9     9?       97        90        53        35. 00     71        52       39       6.00
LE3*'1tN         72    2 .9     7 00      3 .3    1 8.0     SR    an    Io      68       06        65        19         7.00      63        26ui    25       21.00o
MALAYSIA         72   21 .4     400       0 6.4    22, 70........               65       903        ...      3?         ...       2..       l. .26
3009             72    0 .6     930o      7.3      3.R      96     -    -       70       700       99        33         7.00       ...        0.40    0            
PA<1qTAN         75  6',7C      I flOG     2.      6*.7 2    5    75    39      7 1      470       s0        39        27. ao      . ..      270      10P     6 .0 0
PHILIPPINES    T4  39.OC    720C          7.9;   20.9       75    is    j2      07      104X       ...       50          Is        ...       060X    ...    21.00
STI'GAPO0E       72    72      2700Ro     3 .2IN   2 6 2    00    31    235    75A    1072         77        33         I...      99        '27      29       8.p50
7041I.0A90l      7 3  3R,5      770C      3.01N  I20.7      65     0     26     02       871       91C       32         3 . 00*'    NIC     PlO      24       7. 00
TURKEY           77   17.0      370       ...    23.0DR.         .....toSxCe    ...                          34DY0       ...       ...       770Y    2770     5.3ltB
YEHIEN           71    6 .      23  0     0n. 5    4 .0     'hP P        23     2        15x       I2A       36         5.00      75          20    I39       0 . 059ol
YEMEN P.0.0*   77    2.5        Ion       7.14   t27,6      79    27            0        Sox      31        29        10.00      99         lbw     20       0.oBAY
143M0EV  IF COUNTTIE91                    67      S?       61   50)           62,      73        42        70          35       02        73       69        '*7
OuE  --0------                              ( 5 3 .8-  (?79   20-   (0-    (5-     210 -     (27 -     (19-       (1.0.    (-         lA        N        *l
9.0  1  372.32 )   6 252)   40)    OR?)       I2049)    09 9      6 6         2 750)    901       75,O)   *3)       23.0)
JAOTILES3IUPPER                         4 .7    Pt. I0   50    36    20      60       03        7 6       45           7        76        ?6       6      0 .79
ME 7 IAMa4i                0.0    108. 2     90    27    15      90       72        3 6       38          0        63         2 6     23       7 .0 0
LOwRF   3                  3 .0    1 4.0     AZ    17    it      20       OR        25        33           3       735         8       29      0.,53
-   AGNITfIDE NIL OR NEGLIGIOLE  R:1971                            NaGDP....
?ODLIESTII'JMLE                       C2i07a                        P.INCLUDINr FOREIGN AID                      COLIJANS.l  AnY  2 WORLD SANK
INCLUDED  PAOT.TIME,STUDENTS 3:20973                             luCENIRAL Gt2VTj, ONLY                                           ATLASBM
** CONNIN1ED  (TIM PR TMAPy          E  075 40ROINISTRY  OF EDUCATION (ROE) nNLY                                           3 TO 10 IARD 03551tN9
SaMUE AND STATF GOVT. ONLY                                       AND/OR UNESCO
T:EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVT.                                        STATISTICAL
j.PUO.,C ONLY                                                    YE ARBOBK
V3JNCL.UDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
OINCLUDING JOVERAGED STUDENTS
YaUNESCO SOURCES
CnOMPAPATIVE F[),CATTIN DATA ARE JOEFUL IN THE EvALUATION COF AART?22S ErDoCATIrON SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
)EVEL IP4EN0 NETOFEN 5001031J CJIIINTRIES. HOOWFVFR,DVN THE BASIS OIF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS.NATIONAL COMPARISON SMnULD BE APPROACHED 910,4
GREAT CA,ITTON. DATA PRESFNTET IN THE AR0VF TASLE NAVE BEEN COLLECTED LAOTrELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVAERNMENT SOLIRCESg THE
REOANIOEO oAF STAFF ESTIMATES 00 DTAT FORTY UNESCO. EFFORTS NAVE BEEN AA00E TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT 10 SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE RANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE TIEME
003G0ESSTvELY ON T4E ICCASTION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WOR8K. IN TOE UJSE OP THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWINAG QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD OE BORNE IN
NIT'Ao
(I,)"F)IOCA*TIIN" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUICATION AND) TRAINING, F:IRMAL ANU) NON-FORMAL:
TOI"PRImARY EDLOCATIP4N REFERS TO FDJCATIUN AT THE FIRST LEVEL A9ND 'SECONTARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT TOE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE TE.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) i
(3)"LITEOACY RATES'UCOL.A) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXImATIONS AND IT IS
DQOJOTEUL THAT ANY UNIFORm OEFINITTON OF 'LITERATE" HAS REEN FOLLORED CONSISTENTLY,
(efl"WJ9LIC EXPENDITURE 14 EDUCATTON'(CnLS.3.A AND 5) REFER 10 ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITUIRES DEVOTED TO EDtUCATION 90
PUBLIC AN90 OUASI.PURBLIC AGENCIESI
CNI"ENROLLMENT RATTIOS'TCOLS 7. 12 ANT 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND mFAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TITmE
IN TOE APPRTPOIATE SCHOOIL. PURLIC AND PRIVATE 00 LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SURUECT TO) A wIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN IRE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING 101 VARIATIJN IN TOE ACCIJRACY OF BASIC DATAII.E. Aol-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENRPOLLmENT FIGURES
FREDfFr*TLY *0F '41r0ER THAN THE NUM9EN  OF STODFNTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOIOL. IVEHAGED STUDENTS WHOsE  INCLtISITIN IS INDICATED  00
FOOTNOTED ALSO CAN TNFLATE THE RATIO)S.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER IN LIBERIA
1.        The Government has underway a process of manpower planning which
will enable it to assess Liberia's stock of available manpower and future
needs. The first step in this process was taken in 1973 with the establish-
ment under Credit 305-LBR of a manpower planning unit within the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs. This unit has so far concentrated on
general problems and on establishing statistical reporting systems which
should provide the kind of detail necessary for planning specific training
programs, designing a rational policy of Liberianization and identifying
unemployed or underemployed groups within the society.
2.        The manpower planning unit has completed a manpower survey at the
three-digit level of the ISCO classification for professional, technical and
related personnel only. There are severe shortages in a number of high-level
manpower occupations, i.e., those requiring a university degree or the equiv-
alent in formal education, training and experience including civil engineers,
surveyors, engineering technicians, biologists and those in related occupa-
tions, pharmacists, professional nurses, para-medical personnel, accountants
and secondary school teachers. Projections of national manpower needs across
all job classifications are published in the Indicative Manpower Plan for
Liberia, 1972-1982, and reproduced in the attached Table 1. These data re-
veal the overall occupation structure of employment but are not useful for
education and training institutions because of their level of aggregation
which combines for each category a wide variety of occupations and the full
range of minimum entry requirements in terms of educational attainments and
experience.
3.        Although the Indicative Manpower Plan does contain much useful
information on expatriate employment by occupation and by industry, the
totals and percentages do not reflect the concentration of expatriates in
high and middle-level occupations. Professional, technical and related per-
sonnel comprise nearly 28% of all expatriate employment (40% of thbesc teing
in the tinirng industry); administrators and managers, 19%; managers of
tradina operaticns, 13%; and skilled craft occupations, 20% (one-half
being fcreman and superviscry positions).
4.        While it is anticipated that the current statistical studies will
provide a solid analytical base for a national manpower policy, the major
outlines of that policy are already evident and the Government has taken a
series of steps to implement it; for example, in regard to the public service:



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
(a) the civil service agency is in the process of drafting job
descriptions for all government occupations;
(b) work has begun on the introduction of salary scales to be
associated with these job descriptions;
(c) an Institute of Public Administration has been established for
the improvement of middle-level management and administration
through training programs and through assistance to ministries
on a consulting, research or advisory basis.
Liberianization, Technical Assistance Planning and Foreign Scholarships
5.        Both the public and private sectors rely heavily upon the use of
expatriates in high and middle-level occupations (see Table 2). This heavy
dependence will probably persist through most of the 1980s until improved
education and training systems begin to provide sufficiently qualified man-
power. The adoption of a rational policy of Liberianization for specific
occupations will be possible when detailed manpower data become available.
In general, it is anticipated that these data will reveal a long-term
dependence on expatriates in a wide variety of occupations in both the
public and private sectors.
6.        It is particulalry important that the public sector evaluate the
uses and effectiveness of technical assistance in Liberia, which has received
massive amounts of technical assistance over the past two decades. This
assistance has not produced efficiently operating institutions staffed and
managed by Liberians; hence it is essential that the reasons for failure be
made clear, whether it is due to unrealistic objectives or to the uses to
which technical assistance was put or to the inadequate provision of fellow-
ships and counterparts. Most likely, a combination of all these factors has
contributed to the failure.
7.        It is desirable that manpower planning for Liberianization, tech-
nical assistance programming and evaluation, and the foreign scholarship
programs be better coordinated, ideally by placing all of these functions
under a single agency. Given the fact that manpower shortages are the
severest constraint on Liberia's development, this reorganization should be
given a high priority.
Training
8.        The Government has taken significant initiatives to resolve the
most apparent manpower problems in some middle-level occupations. For
example, it has established its own forest ranger training school in tempo-
rary quarters and has started to formulate plans for a greater effort in
vocational training.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
9.        The forest ranger training school is based on the Government's
projection of a requirement for 400 rangers in the public sector by 1985.
In the area of vocational training, the Government is seriously discussing
the following proposals:
(a) establishment of an interministerial national training council;
(b) establishment of an industrial training authority with tripartite
representation (labor, employers and Government) for craft and
artisan training and industrial skill-upgrading;
(c) imposition of an industrial training levy to bear a large share
of the burden for financing skill-upgrading and craft training.
These proposals indicate that the Government is moving in the right direc-
tion in terms of organization, particularly in craft training, where it
wishes to achieve greater employer participation in the planning, financing
and operation of programs and facilities. In general, these proposals are
designed to ensure that the vocational training needs of both industry
and Government are met and that resources are not wasted through an over-
supply of improperly trained people.
Quality
10.       One of the more difficult problems facing manpower and education
planners in Liberia is that of quality. While the Government recognizes the
severity of this problem, coping with it must involve a long-term strategy
implemented in different stages. For example, while efforts are being made
to improve primary education, education at higher levels should be heavily
remedial (and unfortunately expensive). As primary education improves, the
curriculum at higher levels must be progressively revised to accommodate
and fully exploit the imDroved output of the primary schools (this would
also lower costs at higher levels through the elimination of remedial work).
The implications of the Government's objective to increase quality have not
been adequately planned in terms of the organization and staffing required
to achieve desirable long-term flexibility in curriculum and in the capa-
bilities of the teaching staff. Improvement of the external effLciency of
the school system is necessarily a slow and long-term undertaking, but its
foundations should be laid as early as possible.



LIBERIA
ALTERNATIVE PROJECTED EMPLOYMENT AND
NTE JOBS, 1972-1982
1982          ProJ ection A          Pro ection B        ProJection C
1972     Employ-      Total                 Total                 Total
TSCG Code              Total    ment         Employ-    New        Employ-   New          Employ-  New
Employment  Structure   ment         Jcbs      ment       Jobs       ment      Jobs
1. Professional, Techn
and Related Workers      29,433     8.1        70,000      41,000    63,000    34,000       60,000   31,000
2. Administrative,
Executive and
Managerial Workers        4,799      1.1       10,000       5,000      9,000     4,000       8,000    3,000
3. Clerical and Sales
Workers                  46,770    12.2       106,000      59,000    95,000    48,000       90,000   43,000
4. Farmers, Fishermen,
Hunters, Loggers
and Related Workers    399,265    58.2        506,000    107,000   454,000    55,000    428,000   29,OOC
5. Miners, Quarrymen
and Related Workers       7,762     o.8         7,000        -762     6,240      -1522       5,890    -1872
6. Transport and Com-
munication Workers       16,281      4.1       36,000      20,000    32,000    16,000       30,000   14,000
7. Craftsmen, Pro-
duction Process
Workers and
Laborers                 58,619     9.7        84,ooo      25,000    76,ooo    17,000       71,000    12,000
8. Service, Sport and
Recreation Workers       22.919      S.8       50,000      27,000    45.000    22,000       43,000    20,000
TOTAL               585,848   100.0       869,000    283,000   780,000   194,000    736,ooo   150,000
Projection A:  Upper Limit; assuming a 6.9 percent growth rate of Gross Domestic Product from 1972-1982
Projection B: Median Limit; assuming a 5 percent growth rate of Gross Domestic Product from 1972-1982
Projection C:  Lower Limit; assuming a 4 percent growth rate of Gross Domestic Product from 1972-1982
Source:  Indicative Manpower Plan of Liberia for 1972-1982.
April 1976                                                                                                x



ANNEX 2
Table 2
LIBERIA
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT AND EXPATRIATE EMPLOYMENT
IN LIBERIA IN 96 ESTABLISHMENTS WITH MORE
THAN 20 EMPLOYEES
Reported Em-        Expatriate      Percent
Industry                           ployment in 1972    Workers,1973   Expatriate
1. Agriculture, forestry and fishing           23,053             257            1.1
2. Mining and quarrying                        10,877           1,252           11.5
3. Manufacturing                                1,866             132            7.1
4. Electricity, water and gas                     940              28            3.0
5. Construction                                   895              54            6.o
6. Trade                                        2,608           1,435           55.0
7. Transport, storage and communications        3,150             156            5.0
8. Services                                     1,072             728           67.9
9. Government (technical assistance)           18,538             533            2.9
Total                             62,999           4,575            7.3
Source: Indicative Manpouer Plan of Liberia for the period 1972-1082,
Ministry of Plainning and Economic Affairs, Mfonrovia, June 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10 pages
LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE LIBERIAN EDUCATION SYSTEM:
ITS DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS AND ITS FINANCING
A.   THE SYSTEM
1.        Although Liberia has never been a colony, it has experienced an
era of socio-economic conditions and international relations during which
the well-being of its people and the evolution of its technology and insti-
tutions have been severely litrited. Thus, for the past three decades of
African national resurgence, Liberia has faced almost identical problems
of national and cultural identity, social and regional equity, economic
growth and diversification, and scientific/technological transfer as those
faced by her African neighbors. Her education system, as both agent and
reflection of social change, confronts similar challenges of growth and
adaptation.
2.        The State, through the Ministry of Education (see Organizational
Structure, Chart 1), prescribes curricula and textbooks for all levels,
compulsory school attendance (currently ages 6-16), examinations at the end
of grades 9 and 12, and the conditions for the licensing of teachers. The
State-prescribed structure of the education system (see Chart 2) is currently
six primary grades (with one or two "pre-grade" preparatory classes in some
schools), followed by three junior high and three senior high grades. The
system comprises public schools, mission (church) schools, and private
(concessionaire or private ertrepreneurial) schools. Th:e MTinistry controls
elementary, junior high, senior high, technical/vocational and adult educa-
tion; it also controls teacher training and is generally responsible for
higher education. All instruction is in the English language, whereas the
people of the various districts speak their own languages. Most of the
children entering school spend a year or two acquiring a knowledge of
English in the pre-grade 1 classes.
Primary Education
3.        At primary level, enrollments increased by almost 118% during the
1960s, but since then have tapered off to a 4% annual growth rate. About
75% of the enrollment is over-age by three years or more. In 1974, 149,000
children were enrolled (see Chart 3), of whom 33% Jmre J .he two prT- race
1 classes and 36% were female; 65% of these children were in public schools,
19% in mission schools and the remaining 16% in private schools. Of the 843
schools, 45 operated two dcily shifts. Overcrowding is common, exacerbated
by a system of school management which assigns one teacher to a grade and
one grade to a classroom, with the result that 100-150 children may be packed
into one pre-grade classroom while 10 or 12 occupy a similar size grade 6
classroom.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10 pages
4.        In most rural schools, textbooks are the exception rather than the
rule. In a random sample in a class of 40, only one pupil had the prescribed
reader and only one had the prescribed science book; the remaining pupils
neither owned nor had access to any other printed material in the classroom,
largely because they could not afford the textbooks of American origin. This
dearth of textbooks forces the pupils to depend entirely on the teacher.
5.        With only 23% of the 3,818 primary teachers trained, the quality of
instruction is unsatisfactory. The frames of reference used in teaching
often are foreign and unrelated to the life experiences of the pupils. Some
30% of the teachers are female and the pupil/teacher ratio is 39:1. The two
Rural Teacher Training Institutes, Kakata (KRTTI) and Zorzor (ZRTTI), had 76
graduates in 1973 and 424 students (207 female) enrolled in 1974. ZRTTI,
with 228 students in 1974, is converting from the traditional three-year post
grade 9 course to a one-year post grade 12 course (which will place greater
emphasis on rural and practical subjects) so as to accelerate the national
output of appropriately trained teachers to about 250 per year. The student/
teacher ratio at RTTI's is 10:1. KRTTI is being improved under the first
project.
Secondary Education
6.        At secondary level, enrollment in the 275 junior and senior high
schools has grown at an average of 2,000 pupils, or 15% per year over the
past decade. The promotion rate from grade 6 to grade 7 is about 70%. Of
the 26,426 pupils in 1974 (13% of the 12+ - 18+ age group) 25% were female,
38% in Monrovia schools and 69% in the lower cycle grades 7-9; one-half of
the pupils were in public schools, one-third in mission schools and the rest
in private schools. The average school size was an uneconomic 96 students,
and 16% of the schools were operating in two shifts. Overcrowding exists in
several pockets. Many of the high schools have elementary sections attached
and many of the buildings are dilapidated. Practical facilities are rare,
especially in rural areas, and are underutilized where they do occur. One
school in Monrovia offers pre-vocational courses.
7.        In 1974 there were 1,308 secondary level teachers (giving a pupil/
teacher ratio of 20:1), 20% of whom were female. In the lower cycle, 64%
had at least a high school diploma together with either teacher education or
2-4 years of college, while at the upper level 84% had at least 2-4 years of
college with either teacher education or a college degree. Over 90% of the
teachers are Liberian.
8.        In the 1974 national examinations, 3f the 2,427 grade 12 candidates
(62% from tMonrovia schools), 84% passed and of the 5,367 grade 9 candidates
(40% from Monrovia schools), 77% passed.   It is estimated that 14% of
students finishing grade 1 graduate from grade 12.



M,!NEX 3
Page 3 of 10 pages
Technical/Vocational Education
9.        Technical/vocational education takes place In two main centers in
the public sector on a three-year post grade 9 course: the Booker Washington
Institute (BWI) in Kakata and the Liberian-Swedish Vocational Training Center
(LSVTC) in Yekepa. In 1974, the BWI had 920 students (19% female) in agri-
culture, auto mechanics, building and electrical trades, machine shop, secre-
tarial science, home economics and bookkeeping. Some of the students stay
on a fourth year and also complete high school graduation. At the LSVTC,
106 students were registered for woodworking, general and heavy duty me-
chanics, and electricity. In 1974, a total of 66 instructors (excluding
administrators), or one to every 16 students enrolled, were teaching; 144
students from BWI and 37 from LSVTC graduated. The Ministry of Public Works
provides on-the-job training in automotive and supervisory skills.
10.       Vocational training is offered in public sector centers such as
the Klay Center (metal, electrical and building trades -- 79 students in
1975), the Harrisburg Center (agriculture -- 42 boarding students in 1975
who, on completion, receive five acres of land and a set of implements), and
the National Clerical Training Center, which upgrades 50-70 clerk-typists in
a one-year course (on a half-day release basis) which qualifies them for
senior secretarial appointments.
11.       In the private sector, LANCO operates basic craft training centers
at Buchanan and Nimba (550 enrolled in 1975) and an advanced training center
(Buchanan -- 84 enrolled in 1975). Bong Mine operates a center for appren-
tices in electrical, mechanical and automotive trades, with about 30 appren-
tices per year over a 3-year course, the first 8 months full-time and the
remainder one day per week. Temco Garage and Jos Hansen Company conduct
automotive trade courses for their apprentices. On-the-job training is given
by the Liberian Refining, Liberian Mining, and National Iron Ore companies.
Some home economics training is given at the Mary Ann Cheeseman Home Economics
School over a 2-3 year course.
12.       A technical teacher training program is being conducted under the
First Education Project (Cr. 305-LBR) at the LSVTC, where 36 trainees are
being prepared by two full-time and three part-time teachers for the multi-
lateral high schools being built under the first project.
Adult Education
13.       In 1970, it was estimated that 27.97 of women and 67.1% of men in
the age group 15-19 were literate and in the age group 20-24 the respective
percentages were 11.3 and 55.3. For successively higher age groups, the
percentage of literate men declined gradually to 8.5 for the 60-64 group
whereas for the literate women the percentage fell to 7 or less for all
groups 25 years and over. The age distribution of this low level of literacy



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10 pages
reflects accurately the history of formal educational activity in Liberia
which was, until recent years, concentrated around Monrovia and Maryland
county. Thus in the Government's policy of total involvement and rural
development the high illiteracy levels,especially in rural areas and among
women,have loomed as formidable obstacles to the information and training
efforts of the staff of various ministries in the fields of health, agri-
culture, home economics, vocational skills and community leadership. The
Ministry of Education, which is responsible for literacy, established over
the period 1971-74 24 adult literacy centers in rural primary schools
offering free instruction and related materials to 600 adults.
Higher Education
14.       At University level, there are two institutions -- the University
of Liberia (U.L.) (public) and Cuttington College (private), offering a
broad  range of programs.  In 1974 of the 1,797students (1,384 at U.L.)
22% were female. At U.L., 37% of the students were in business and public
administration, 17% in natural science, 16% in liberal arts, 10% in education,
13% in agriculture and forestry,   3% in law and 4% in medicine.  At
Cuttington, the distribution of the first four of the above-listed fields was
41%, 24%, 5% and 8%, respectively; 16% of the students were in nursing, 1%
in theology and 5% in unspecified fields. The two institutions graduated
150 students in 1974: 53% in liberal arts, 10% in education, 13% in natural
science, and 10% in agriculture and forestry. Annual enrollment growth has
averaged 5% at Cuttington and 15% at U.L. over the period 1964-74. Some 70%
of the high school graduates are estimated to enroll in these institutions
each year despite the failure of many of them in the entrance examination.
At Cuttington, 11% dropped out on the average between 1968 and 1972, and it
is estimated that of a cohort of 100 first-year students, roughly half of
them would graduate. At U.L. the attrition over 1964-74 comprised 26% of
total enrollment. This total was distributed over the first to fourth year
as follows: 71%, 15%, 5% and 9%. Repetition rates are also high at U.L.,
averaging 34% in 1973 (64% in the first year, 20% in the fourth year).
Facilities for practical work in science at U.L. are deficient and the recently
launched technology (engineering) program also lacks physical facilities. At
U.L. the staff is 60% Liberian and the staff:student ratio at this level is
1:10.
B. PROBLEMS AND DEVELOPMENT POLICY
15.       The development strategy for education is currently being deter-
mined in the context of the f-u-:--year national development plan being
drafted under a UNDP/IBRD project. Most of the educational development
requirements are appreciated and the Ministry of Education has made good
progress toward a long--range development plan for education. Capital expen-
diture on education occurs at both the Central Government and local levels;
at the local level, subscriptions in cash and in kind are raised for
construction of school buildings.



A"IEX 3
Page 5 of 10 pages
16.       The problems of elementary education have been correctly diagnosed
as requiring a large-scale school building program, relevant curricula and
related materials, improved school supervision, and better trained teachers.
The community schools program was originally conceived for improvement of
primary school buildings; among its objectives were (a) instruction of pupils
in farming and construction skills and of adults in home economics, health,
construction skil'ls and literacy; and (b) the use of school buildings as
postal agencies and even as savings banks. As these objectives were well
beyond the human resources and terms of reference of the Ministry of
Education, many of them have been taken up by other appropriate ministries,
leaving to the Ministry of Education the manageable objectives of prcircting
adult literacy and general knowledge as a fcundation for other community
development activities such as instruction in light gardening and handicrafts.
17.       The community school construction program will need to be
synchronized with other complementary inputs of curricula, materials, teacher
training and supervisory services, and should be adjusted in the light of
progress in the school places inventory and of recent statistics on population
levels and distribution. The program's costs and smoothness of implementation
are important for the future. For approximately 10 years after 1980, Liberia
will need to construct about 15,000 places (about 125 modular units) per
year.
18.       Teacher training output will also need to be increased to about
650 per year, which suggests that KRTTI should also be converted to the one-
year course as well, leaving in-service academic and professional upgrading
and refresher work to be done through vacation courses, weekend centers,
correspondence courses, assistance from school supervision, and extension
work of the University and Cuttington College. If attrition of trained
teachers could be kept to less than 6% per year, there would be no need for
further drastic increases in RTTI enrollments (see Table 3).
19.       The grade 6 examination, as a research and diagnostic instrument
in the first few years, should be reintroduced; as social demand for grade
7 places increases it may be necessary to use such a test as a selection aid;
automatic promotion within the elenentary grades should be introduced from
at least 1980 on a phased basis, and pre-grade 1 classes should be
simultaneously phased out (see Tables 1 and 2).
20.       At lower secondary level (grades 7-9) it is important to produce a
broadly educated person with some scientific and technical orientation who
can either fit into the upper secondary programs or vocational programs or
be trained on the job. At senior secondary level (grades 10-12) the priority
is on improving the quality of the graduate to meet middle-level manpower
requirements and to improve the standard of University admissions, thereby
reducing the need for costly remedial work at university level. Stronger
central control over graduation recuirements and closer supervision of the
weaker schools would assist in stimulating improved teaching methods, more
practical work in science and applied science, and raising overall standards.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10 pages
Central planning and local initiatives in the provision of secondary schools
would be more effective if better coordinated with each other, Growth in
the size of the system should be concentrated in rural areas, possibly 10%
p.a. during 1975-80, followed by a level after 1980 to be determined in the
light of data assembled during 1976-77. This means relatively small school
units with very well designed school mapping for grades 7-9 and the cen-
tralizing of grades 10-12. If this rate of growth were to be maintained,
the special two-year training program at university level for grade 12
graduates to do junior high school teaching would answer the need for
teachers.
21.       In the public sector, technical and vocational education and
training have reached a very low ebb. An opportunity now arises for a
complete redesign of the system. In the interests of economy and efficiency,
a new policy is required which differentiates between technical education
and vocational training and their respective minimum needs and places the
burden of general education not on the vocational training sector but on the
general education system where it belongs. A model Vocational Training
Center is needed in Liberia. The recent establishment of a National Council
for Vocational and Technical Education and Training will bring employers,
labor and government into close collaboration on aligning vocational
training programs with the requirements of industry. The technical education
programs of the Ministry of Education could then concentrate on prevocational
and technical education, sharpened, however, by greater input from the employ-
ment world on the shape of these programs. Until the Zwedru and Voinjama
multilateral schools are functioning and evaluated, new multilateral schools
should not be planned.
22.       At university level, the development plan for the University of
Liberia will need to be reviewed in the light of manpower information now
becoming available and the long-range education development plan under
preparation. Future development policies at this level should include the
role to be played by Cuttington College and should promote complementarity
rather than duplication of programs at the two campuses.
23.       The building up within the Ministry of Education of strong and
efficient administration and central services requires time and should per-
sist for some years as the central concern of Government. During the period
1975-80 the emphasis should be on laying the foundations for progress --
institution building, staff training and planning -- in preparation for the
post-1980 period during which a changing economic order, a more involved
rural population and an improved revenue situation will demand more and
better educational services. The strengthening of this administration would
require rational organizational structures and efficient procedures. The
specialized fields of curriculum, educational measurement, planning, adult
education and reading materials should be strengthened, and the foundations
should be laid for educational broadcasting, research and evaluation, and the



ANNEX 3
Pa-e 7 cf 10 pages
central library services. In its use of foreign experts in the reconstruction
and regeneration of any one or all of its central services and administration,
the Ministry would need to ensure that the building up of local expertise
in the design and management of such services remains the principal objective.
C. FINANCING
Background
24.       The Liberian education and training system comprises both public
and private institutions. The primary, secondary and vocational schools
include (a) public schools (fully state-financed except for obligatory
uniforms and books, which are the parents' responsibility); and (b) private
schools. The latter comprise (a) mission or entrepreneurial schools, some
of which receive state subventions (the level iRS not fixed by either law
or policy guidelines), and (b) concession schools, which receive no public
funds.
25.       The two primary teacher training institutes are public.
Technical/vocational education and training are offered at two Ministry of
Education centers (Booker Washington Technical Institute and the Liberian-
Swedish Vocational Training Center), two Ministry of Labor centers
(Harrisburg Agricultural and Klay Rural Arts Centers) as well as at concession-
operated centers (the largest is operated at Buchanan by the Liberian-
American Mining Company); there are also some entrepreneurial efforts,
especially in commercial subjects. Higher education is conducted at the
public University of Liberia and the private Cuttington College, which
receives a small state subvention. In addition, various Government ministries
operate special training programs within their special fields of interest
and responsibility.
Public Financing
General
26.       In 1974, 85% of Government expenditure for education and training
was channelled through the budget of the Ministry of Education. Other more
modest allocations were made to the Institute of Public Administration for
administrative and clerical training (1.7%), to the Ministry of Health for
health education and training (2.0%), to the Ministry of Labor for
vocational training (1.3%), to the Ministry of Agriculture for rural develop-
ment, home economics and agrIcultural extension (0.77), and to a newly
created agency, Action for Development Progress. Other miscellaneous grants
account for the balance (9.3%/) of the country's education and training
budget (see Table 4). The US$13.3 million provided for all education and
training in 1974 represented 14,' of the national budget.



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10 pages
27.       Within the US$13.2 million recurrent budget of the Ministry of
Education for 1975 (the best year for achieving a rough breakdown by sub-
sectors), the allocations to subsectors were as follows: central administra-
tion including school supervision, 16.7%; primary education, 28%; secondary
education, 16.2%; vocational/technical education including technical teacher
training, 11.8%; primary teacher training, 5.6%; higher education including
scholarships, 19.3%; literacy, 0.6%; and miscellaneous subventions and
allocations, 1.7%. The development budget was US$1.9 million (see Table 5).
Primary and Secondary School Financing
28.       At public primary and secondary schools no fees are imposed by the
state. The Local Primary School Committees, occasionally acting on behalf
of parents, impose small charges of one or two dollars per pupil for
supplies, building repairs or an additional teacher. The Central Government
provides teachers and supplies and, occasionally, materials for building
repairs. In 1974 the Central Government spent US$23 per pupil in public
rural primary schools (of which US$0.70 or 3% was for supplies and materials),
and US$54 per pupil in the relatively privileged Monrovia school system (of
which US$1.80 or 3% was for materials and supplies), and provided US$93,000
to subsidize private primary schools, principally in Monrovia. At secondary
level the expenditure was US$95 per pupil in public rural schools and US$103
in Monrovia, of which roughly US$2 went into materials and supplies. Private
secondary schools received US$117,000 in subventions, principally in Monrovia.
Teacher Training Technical/Vocational and Higher Education
29.       The primary teacher training allocation of US$384,000 in 1974
averaged US$906 per student, over 90% of whom were residential. At the
Booker Washington Institute, which is residential, the allocation averaged
US$442 per student and was inadequate to finance a sufficient amount of
equipment and supplies. Subventions to private vocational efforts amounted
to US$115,000. Cuttington College received US$62,000. The University of
Liberia received US$2,374,000, or US$1,400 per student (88% of the cost),
and student fees of US$75 per semester contributed the balance of the
University's operating budget.
Maintenance
30.       Maintenance of buildings is not included in the budget of the
Ministry of Education. An allocation of US$302,000 was made in 1974 for
maintenance of all government buildings but very little, if any, may have
reached the schools. Under the law, local school committees are required
for primary schools and one of their duties is to maintain their schools --
a task which receives occasional assistance from the Central Government or



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10 pages
from the district Ministry of Public Works Offices in the form of materials.
In practice, the maintenance effort is far below the need, especially in the
case of the poorly constructed village schools, and an estimate of the
maintenance requirements has not been prepared.
Financing of Private Education
31.       Most of the private schools are in Monrovia.  Certain mission and
entrepreneurial schools receive state subsidies. In 1974, state subsidies
to individual private elementary schools ranged from US$160 to $26,712; for
individual private secondary schools the range was from US$100 to $50,000.
Mission schools receive some grants from their respective churches. Conces-
sion schools receive grants from the concessionaires, However,depending
upon the extent of such forms of support and upon the standards of the
particular school, the annual fees for the operation of private schools range
from US$10 to $250 per student. Data on their financing are not available
because no survey has been undertaken even in the case of those receiving
state subsidies. Their operational costs, however, are likely to be more
rather than less than public school costs. Even at 1974 public school per
capita costs the 63,889 pupils in private primary and secondary schools
would have cost US$2.7 million, or 68% of the comparable public school
budget. This large industry has grown in response to a demand which the
public sector has failed to meet in terms of bcth quantity and quality, and
it benefits principally the relatively better off urban and concession
residents.
Future Policy Requirements of Educational Financing
32.       The future policy requirements can be determined more clearly-
when more data on the actual situation and trends become available regarding
public and private expenditure and after a thorough study has been made on
the central administration of the Ministry of Education.
33.       Some of the more obvious needs are:
(a) Policy guidelines on criteria for the subsidies to private
schools and a periodic complete review of the list of schools
receiving aid; such guide:Lines should establish qualifying
standards in terms of internal school organization and
educational performance, fee levels, state supervision and
so on.
(b)  A' more ccrscious atterpt to suppcrt rural schools in ViEV7 ofi the
already greater preponderance of Monrovia public and private
schools in the overall picture of educational financing.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10 pages
(c) Planning of the development of subsectors in such a way as
to show clearly the expenditure policies required (percentage
allocations for materials, supplies, maintenance, personnel,
etc.), the per capita costs and the changing subsectoral
distribution of expenditure within the Ministry of Education.
It would be expected that after the administrative reform the
central administration allocation would grow at a much slower
rate than allocations for literacy and primary education
(d) As such planning indicates the necessity for improvements in
the overall budgetary allocation for education, it may be
necessary to allow for an annual increase of 15% over the next
few years until the proportion of the national budget devoted
to education exceeds 20%, at which point the growth would be
at a somewhat slower rate depending upon rates of growth of the
national budget.
(e) Improvement in the amounts allocated for school supplies
and maintenance.
34.       The project would assist in various ways.  It would:
(a,) provide technical assistance for completing the long-range
plan for education;
(b) improve quality and efficiency at various levels, especially
rural schools and central administration;
(c) provide technical assistance for the inventory, planning and
programming of school maintenance requirements.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
-                I.B.R.D.
EDUCATION PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
'                                LIBERIA
Do nou -nit. in                                                                                                                            COUNTRY
spec belo.                  (TO DE COMPLETED IMMEDIATELY AFTER ANY SLUSTANTIAL EDUCATiON MISSION, ..q. APPtAISAL.)
COUNIET                POPULATION          GNP/CAPITA         EXCHANGE RATE       LITERACY   PiUBIC EDUC. EXPENDIIURE
CODE     YEAR          (MILLIONS)          (S U. S.)          (U.S. S' )        I% ADULTS)  PEA CAPITA (S U.S.)
11101 a~j 1151 E331    00  ILliJ K I
I    5-4     5-7            12 -            -13_17                  IF-23            24-6           27-30
EDUCATION EXPENESIT tIRES AS% GNP     TOTAL CENTRAL   I          OF CENTRAL GOVT. EXPENDITURE ON EDUCAT)ON
PEtLIC %        PRIVATE              T OAL; LIC EXFNtt        % TOTAL          d ATAL        StECUIR(
31 -4
% OP TOTAL PLIRLIC                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OP INCAEASE PST 5 YEART1
EXPENDITURE ON    CAPITAL EXPEND. ON EDUC. FOREIGN AID TO EDUCATION    RECURRENt AXKtN. ON  S IOAL UASLIC      i YtA45iT
EDUCATION     AS Ye TOTAL EDUC. EXPEND. AS YeTOTAL PELIBC EDUC.EXP.  IDUJCMNSTANT PRICESI  txqtR qN qAP!4~  ICEs) TOI&4A!4&Q31UAENTs
I~~1                                21.3.                                                f?J..tIJ                                   4i.
52-9       59-61                     ~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~~62-4  6.-5-    69-fl                   73-6
Ye PUElIC EDUCATIONAL 91CUREENT EXPFNDrItLME.
CT COUNTRY          DEVOTED TO VOCAT L..                   SY teV  I                                  ON SALARjIS
CODE    YEAR  TECH. & PSFESS'L TtG.   ON PtRMAEY     ON SEC NDAEY   ON HIG"Et        Al tRIMAtY LIEV    At S COiARY
F21WI 7141  [ELJ   [a1J i                                                 liE]J [l DJ :EJ
T    7-4     5-6          7-9               10-12          13-IS          16I0                 19.21         2?.4
MEDIAN TEACHER SALARY IN RELATION TO QNP/CAPITA        irTIONAF ATAINLENY OF THE LAIOR FORCf
PRIMARY     SECCNDARY       HIGHER                t41tAARY    S6 OfOAL  WOtKYERS HWiH Et
1:R  MI ED. Eli mENDi'9
25-7          2E-30          31-3                   34S6              37-9            40-1
UNIT RECURREN C    N                                                        AGE     URATION RY LVIEL TNO.YES.)
PEIMARY        GEN. SEC.         TECH. SEC.       tEAC .ER IRAINING          UNIVERSITY          PrU   AY 1EIQNDARY  PRIARY GE1  SEC. T2 UNIV.
0o28J  [o:jjRJ  0442                                   8).  I   14001    [J1 U                                                   6  0
42-S            46-9              50-4               55-9                      9-A4                                                  7 ,-7  73' 7 n
CT COUNTRY           N TOTAL TNOLl.4EN7 BY LEVEL        NET fNtOLLMfNT tATIOS (EXCLUDiNG OVERAC-ED SlUDtNTS)     HIGNtR COADUATES    % PtA6ALE    S STLDENTS BOARDING
CODE     YEAR  PRIMARY   SECONDARY   HIGHER       PRIMARY    S 7-Oi9tYPRIMARY A SECONDARY    HIGHTR        PEI    0D  CPION  ATISEO_NAY             G
1    2-4    5-6      7.9        10-12      13-15        I"-         19-21        22-25              26-P              9-3               33_4            35-7
DISIRIRUTION GF SECONDARY ENROLLMENTU   % 1 ENROLLMENT BY LEVEL IN PRIVATE SCHOOLS   DISTRIBUTION ft F'OHER ENROLLMENT BY FIELD OF STUrDY
S GENERAL  % TELHL     Y XR TRO.          PRIMARY    SECONDARY    HiGHER              S EDUC      AGCO .   # SCIENCE    S ENO.
:E  ZWM [PiJ IBiL Hiji EiJ  1j WIlJ EJ E1J
38-40       41-3        44-6               47-9         50-2        53-5                56-8        59-1       6o2-4        4-47
CT COUNWRY                                     COMPLETION RATES NY)                           tREAL SCHOOLING  PRGRISSION RATES %             STLIDENTS PER TEACHER
CODE    YEAR   PRIMARY     I 1 .CY. SEC   GEN SEC.    TECH SEC.  TR IGR.   UNIVERSITY      RATE (%I)       I O2        2 .I3 PIMAY                  SECONDARY
14 [DJ [II_ ED   E[IJ FTI12 M.1 -1 [ J  MId  1 [I12  [:EJ  12
I    2-4    5-6       7-9        10-12        13-15       Ib1-l5     L' 2T-7                                   2E-30,      31-33            34.7           38-40
ST5 zDRDS PFOR TEACHERit AlIFICATGwNS
f TEACHERS OUALIFIED              NO YEARS OF                                                                   TACHERS EXPARIAE
PR MARY      SECONSAY            PRiEARS    SECCNACHEY             S    PB                                           (sTC
41-4           45-8                4951               52-54                55-7                S0iF                 613
I. 11 duo,  Sn U I0 n .gIt "gli.bIo. pss*oee In 6o4.
2. 11 doij , N oF q-estionoblo ousoroep   qotill..
noeL in bus.
3. Consul liusIrsOlion. lro dOlinIllon. and II., *19n
P-ibi.                                                                           .,~~~~~~~~~~~~D.May 28, ~1975
possible lootnote...n MXcs,17
*SPECIFY AGE GROUPS FOR ENROI ENT RATIOS
PREIMARY     FEOM             T T                                                                                          Would flnk-6210(2R)
SEGONDARY    FROM             T     I
HIGlEE,      FROM -- T-T-



LIBERIA: SECOND EDVCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHOOL AGE POPULATION
(in OOOs)
Age        1974    1975      1976      1977       1978     1979      1980      1981       1982    1983      1984       1985
0 - 1       53.8     55.0      57.0       59.0      62.0     65.0      68.0      71.5-    74.0    76.2        78.0      80.0
1 - 2      50.0      51.9      53.6       55.6     57.8      60.6      63.2      66.5     70.0    72.4        74.7      76.0
2 - 3      48.0      49.0      50.2       52.9      54.8     56.8      59.0      62.0      65.3    68.9       71.2      73.9
3 - 4      46.5      47.4      48.2       49.0      52.1     54.0      55.9      58.0     61.0    64.3        67.9      70.3
4 - 5       43.7     45.9      46.8       47.4      48.3     51.5      53.4      55.1      57.1    60.1       63.5      67.0
5 - 6      42.8      43.3      45.5       46.2      46.9     47.7      50.9      52.6      54.3    56.3       59.4      62.7
6 77       41.8      42.4      42.9       45.1     45.7      46.4      47.3      50.2     52.8    53.6   I  55.7        58.9
7 - 8      40.9      41.6      42.2       42.7      44.7     45.2      46.0      46.7     49.5    52.2        53.0      55.2
8 - 9      39.9      40.5      41.4       42.0      42.4     44.3      44.8      45.5      46.0    49.0       51.7      52.6
9 - 10      39.0     39.5      40.3       41.2      41.7     42.0      43.9      44.3      44.9    45.6       48.5      51.3
10 - 11     38.3      38.8      39.4       40.1      40.9     41.5      41.6      43.5      43.8    44.6       45.2      48.2
11 - 12     37.5      38.0      38.6       39.3      39.9     40.8      41.2      41.3      42.9    43.5       44.2      44.9
12 - 13     36.8      37.3      37.9       38.5      39.1     39.7      40.6      40.9      41.0    42.7        43.2      44.0
13 - 14     36.0      36.5      37.2       37.8      38.4     38.9      39.5      40.4      40.6    40.7        42.4      43.0
14 - 15     35.0      35.8      36.4       37.1      37.7     38.3      38.2      39.3      40.2    40.5        40.6      42.3
15 - 16     34.1      34.7      35.7       36.3      36.9     37.6      38.2      38.6      39.1    40.1        40.3      40.4
16 - 17     31.0      3 .9      34.6       35.6      36.1      36.8     37.5      38.0      38.5    39.0        39.9      40.1
17 - 18      29.0     30.8      32.6       34.5      35.5      36.1     36.7      37.4      37,9    38.4        38.8      39.8
)Total Po-    1,501   1,545    1,591        1,640    1,690    1,740    1,792    1,846    1,900   1,957           2,015    2,075
ipulation
Age Groups                                                                                                                             m
6+ - 11+  237.4    240.8    244.8        250.4    255.3    260.2    264.8    271.5    279.9   288.5           298.3    311.1         m
12+ - 14+  107.8    109.5    111.5        113.4    115.2    116.9    118.9    120.6    121.8   123.9           162.2    129.3         o
15+ - 17+   94.1      99.4    102.9       106.4    108.5    108.5    112.4    114.0    115.5   117.5           119.0    120.3
Source: Total population for 1974 from official census office estimate
Breakdown into age groups estimnated by mission (more precise data will become available shortly)                           c N w
Projections of the mission based on a roughly 3% annual growth rate
April 1976



LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LIBERIA: SCHOOL ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS
(projections in '000)
CIkctua1)I_                                       I         '                     -i 
1974       1975      1976      1977   e 1978   1 1979        1980      1981      1982     1983      1984       1985
(A) TOTAL ENROLLMENT
Pre-Grade 1                      48,847        51.0     53.0      55.0      57.0       30.0      33.0                     I
Grade 1                      26,462        29.0     32.0      35.0      37.0       54.0      28.0    64.0      43.0      47.0       54.0     57.0
Grade 2                      19,724        21.0     22.2      24.0      26.0       36.0     49.8    26.0       56.0      41.0   ;  45.0      52.0
Grade 3                      17,190        18.2     19.2      20.5      21.8       23.5      32.0    45.0      24.0      50.5      39.5      43.5
Grade 4                      14,722        15.5     16.5      17.7       18.8      19.0      20.0    30.0      42.0      22.0      47.0      38.6
Grade 5                      11,972        12.5     13.9      15.1      16.2       17.2      17.9    18.0      28.1      39.0       21.0     46.0
Grade 6                       9,600        10.1     10.7      11.3       12.0  I   13.5      15.2    17.0      17.2      26.0       37.5     19.8
Grade 7                       7,403         8.3      9.0       9.7       10.4      11.2      12.2    14.0      16.(      16.1       24.0     34.0
Grade 8                       5,463         6.2      7.1       8.0       9.0        9.8      10.2    11.5      13.0      14.5       14.6     22.0
Grade 9                       4,949         5.2      5.6       6.0        7.0       8.0       8.8      9.7     10.4      12.0       13.6      13.8
Grade 10                      3,539         4.0      4.5       4.9        5.2  1    5.6       6.0      6.8      7.3       8.4        9.0      10.0
Grade 11                      2,662         3.0      3.5       4.1       4.4        4.9       5.2      5.8      6.1       6.5        7.8       8.0
Grade 12                      1,889         2.1      2.5       3.1        3.7  1    4.1       4.5      4.9       5.3      5.8        6.0       6.9
Total Grades up to 6             F 149,687       157.3    167.5    178.6       188.8  !  19722    195.9   200.0    210.3   1225.5          244.0    256.9
Age 6 - 11 Enrollment ratios         63.07        65.3      68.48    71.34     73.97 i   73.87    73.98   73.68    75.13    78.16          81.8      82.58
Total Grades up to 9               167,502       177.0    189.2    202.3       215.2      221.2    227.1   235.2    249.7    268.1        296.2    326.7
Age 6 - 14 Enrollment ratios         48.6         50.6      53.2     55.6       58.2       58.7      59.3    60.0      62.2      65.0       69.8     74.2
Total Grades 10 - 12                 8,090         9.1      10.5     12.1       13.4  j   14.6       15.7    17.5      18.7      20.7       22.8     24.9
_ ~  ~~ __    I_____ ._____________    __._._.__                              _ -_______
(B) FEMALE ENROLLMENT
Pre-Grade 1                     19,357        21.0     22.6      24.0       26.0       14.0     16.0
Grade 1                      9,879        11.1     13.0      15.0       16.0  1   24.0      12.7    28.0       19.0     20.0       23.0      27.5
Grade 2                      6,579         7.2      8.1       9.3       10.6      14.0      21.5    11.6      26.0      18.5       19.3      22.0
Grade 3                      5,696         6.3      7.0       7.5        8.9        9.5     12.5 F 20.0        10,6     23.0       18.0      18.6
Grade 4                      4,830         5.3      6.0       6.6        7.0        8.2      8.9    11.0       19.0     10.0       22.5      17.5
Grade 5                      3,593         4.0      5.0       5.6        6.0        6.7       7.6     8.2      10.0     18.0        9.5      21.9
Grade 6                      2,659         3.2      3.8       4.7        5.0        5.6      6.1      7.1       7.7       9.1       17.0      9.0
Grade 7                      2,011         2.3      3.0       3.4        4.2        4.6       5.1     5.7       6.2       7.0        8.6     16.0
Grade 8                      1,398         1.8      2.2       2.7        3.0        3.9      4.1      4.8       5.2       5.8        6.6      8.2
Grade 9                      1,149         1.2       1.6      2.0        2.5        2.7      3.4      3.7       4.2       4.6        5.2       6.2
Grade 10                       903         1.0       1.1      1.5        1.7        2.0      2.4      3.1       3.3       3.7        4.0      4.1
Grade 11                       600         0.8      0.9       1.0        1.2        1.5      1.7      2.1       2.8       3.0       3 3.36    O
Grade 12                       431         0.5      0.7       O.B        1,0        1.1       1.3     1.6       1.8       2.5        2.8      2.9 i 
Grades 1 - 6 % Female             35.43       36.74                      I                       43.57                                            45.89>  *
Grades 7 - 9 % Female             25.18       26.65  i                                           40.381                                           43.551    a z
Grades 10 - 12 % Female           23.24       25.27  1                                           34.71                                            42.571 r j
Assumptions: (1)  tarting in 1975 promotion will be automatic, (2) As from 1981 there would be no more pre-grade classes.
Source: Uorld Ennk Mission
April 1976



LIBERIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TEACHER SUPPLY AND REQUIREMENTS TO 1985 (PRIMARY EDUCATION)
TRAINED TEACHERS (Grade C  Certificates)
Attrition
Required                                    of           Net      Trained
Pupil:   Number    Stock of                        Trained   Addition Teachers as
Teacher     of        Trained  Output of RTTI's   Teachers        to      % of Total
Year  Enrollment   Ratio   Teachers   Teachers  ZRTTI KRTTI Total   at 6%           Stock    Teachers
1974     149,687      39:1      3,818        878      40    35    75       53           22         23%
1975     157,300      40:1      3,933        900      80    40   120       54           66         23%
1976     167,500      40:1      4,188        966    175    45   220        58          162         23%
1977     178,600      40:1     4,465       1,128    250    40   290        68          222         25%
1978     188,800      40:1      4,720      1,350    250    50   300        81          219         29%
1979     192,200      40:1      4,805      1,569    250    40   290        94          196         33%
1980     195,900      40:1      4,898      1,765    250    40   290       106          184         36%
1981     200,000      40:1      5,000      1,949    250   300   550       117          433         39%
1982     210,300      40:1      5,258      2,382    350   300   650       143          507         45%
1983     225,500      40:1      5,638      2,889    350   300   650       173          477         51%
1984     244,000      40:1      6,100      3,366    350   300   650       202          448         55%
1985     256,900      40:1      6,423      3,814    350   300   650       229          421         59%
Source: World Bank Mission                                                                                            X w
April 1976



ANNEX 3
LIBERIA                               Table 4
BUDGET EDtKCATION AND TRAINING EMNDITUJRES OF GOVERMET OF LIBERLIA
Agency                                             Revised 1973       Est. 1974
Institute of Public Administration                   182 300          221,100
Central Administration                             71 8O-          -87.800
Instruction                                       110,500          133,300
Ministry of Health anO 'Welfare                      173,500          268,900
Health Education                                   25,300           43,100
School Health Section                               8,800            9,600
Laboratory Training Program                         -               27,400
Tubman  National Institute of Medical Arts        139,400          188,800
Ministry of Labor, Youth and Sports                  159,200          172,100
Vocational Training:
a) General Vocational Traiiing Program       68,200           77,100
b) Klay Basic Crafts Project                 91,000          95,000
Action for Development Progress                       11,500           10,200
Education Services                                   6,500            5,100
Urban & Rural Development Schemes, Educ. Services   5,000             5,100
Ministry of Lands and Nines                            3,6oo           23,900
Training Division                                    3,600           23,900
Ministry of Agriculture                               65,300           82,300
Home Economics Training                             48,300           52,900
Agricultural Teachers, Trainers                     17,000           18,,400
Agricultural Extension Training Center               -               11,000
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs              3,300            3,300
Education Unit                                       3,300            3,300
Ministry of Education                             10.081,000       11,282,800
General Government                                   996,0oo        1,198,000
Rents                                              450,000          450.,000
Pensions and Annuities                             176,000          192,000
Contribution to Development Projects                40,Ooo          40,000
Other                                              330,000         354o000
Total Government                                  11,676,000       13,267,800
Source: Bureau of the Budget, Government of Liberia
January 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 5
LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
BREAKDOWN OF 1975 MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
BUDGET BY SUBSECTORS (in uS$ million)
Develop-
Recurrent    %      ment
I  Central Administration    1.73
Supervision                 .48                          2.21    16.7    1.3
II Elementary Education                                     3.70    28.0
III Secondary Education                                     2.14    16.2
IV  Vocational/Technical (incl. technical                   1.56    11.8
teacher training)
V  Teacher Training (Primary)                               0.74      5.6    0.4
VI Higher Education (including foreign                      2.55    19.3    0.2
scholarships)
VII Literacy                                                0.08      o.6
VIII Miscellaneous (including subventions, e.g.             0.22      1.7
to Boy Scouts, etc.)
Total                            13.2      99.9    1.9
Source: Bureau of the Budget, Government of Liberia
January 1976






LIBERIA - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION - ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE -APRIL 1975
W   I   $                I                     I   I   I   iX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- INKMEN
DIRECTOR               S          M IIT                         INNOITUTIONV  OI
EDUCAT -IONPO                                                       NNAANUIINTUINOE TE.EICA  ECSI-URS
HOSEININTEUTION  MEDEOHUN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...   E~..    ...
UGHOLARSHIP   ASSIASTANT  ADOIDYDNY                                            l    AND NIHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROIRN-
UiDTEO AHENUNITY                                                          INNTNUDFIHNAL SOPESYIHOTN
COCTIP ANER                         |SCOTOLN UNIT                       |CAUNTY SOPERDIDSMN
INTFRNAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~EEETR                                                        OINOEGUTYS TFOIIE NFldLOD                                           RSOA2 SOME:FI
wi/e  g  OlST9lINUION                        TO
E  ySOFMINTENNCE/            OF
DIVISION    HE                                                                      EYE                                                                                 DIVISION              AI NSI.TT                  O
,    s }    S t>     Unit. to b. ditCtlJ  -.li.td br T-^1-et






ANNEX 3
Chart 2
LIBERIA
STRUCTURE OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM - 1975
Ju.or                       Sen-or
Ele..en. -v Schools                    High School.                 Hiq1 Schools                             Highet Edc..on -
W.I.                                    Senior
15          m 11  12          13       High Scho-                                                         }Technogy
Cou rse
JFK Hospit.l
Professional
Cutengton College
13_    14E     16      S16     CBSS Nursing                                   Heath
Univers-ty of Libe-ia
L S.V T.C.
.is       16       17       BSc E.gie-ering                   } Technology
IPre hlremeneervU
IP,. El.- mE)                                                                                                                                         BA BcS  (Scie-e soiol SiencsG } G- l
Unive-ity of Lb-eriF
(as. Theology
Fl  me   Cuttmgton Colleg.)
LLB 
Part T-m                               . Ui'esity of           La
,  Lib.-a     
~~~~~~ ~~~U--itrlty of Lberia                                            Forertry
9A      Business or Puhlbh Administr -or
o Econor--s Urio. of Liberia
BA BSc Educ-tion
13-     14      16      16       Unit. of Liberia or
Cuttington College
_      ZRTTI                                                              Edct ..on.
Teacher's C-rtific-tT
J ~~~~~~~~KRTTI
Grade   IP1       1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9           15      11      12             13     14       15      16      17      18      19
IIIlI I  I  I  I      1                                                              1-1                           11  11  1111
Age    14-61      7       8       9      10      11       12      13      14      15          16      17    1i              19      20       21      22      23      24      25
Wgold BSnk-9802






LIBERIA
1974 SCHOOL ENROLLMENT PYRAMID (by grade)
Q
>        ,
(2             SENIOR HIGH SCiOOLS & HIGHER EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 /th yr.t
O                                                                   I                                                                                                                                                                                                 3rd yr.
Veer.L   T.7   2nd yr.
tE   X    g ,-@@    Ra . ..  ''  71                           =   tffi--                                S                                                                          _    lslyr. lstyr.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ouse4t y. styr
1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I Y"   41GRADE  1-5    I   I  y,
4 ~  ~    ~     -
30,000            2,5,00            20,000            1,5,00            10,000             5,00                0               5,00              10,000            1,5,00             20,000            2,5,00             30,000
Eleor.
Utrv. & College      D   Teacher Traitint        Vocetiotal Courses     Senior High School Entrollmentet       Eltemernttry & Junior High Lecel Etrollmente
Sources: (01 Stetistics Division Bureau Plannieg & Research
(hi Registry Cuillingtort College
(c) Reports Rural Teacher Traiting Institutes                                                                                                                                                                    World Eankr-9542           ~ 






LIBERIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY - (US$ '000)
(BY MAJOR CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE)
Profes-   Local   Tech.
Area in    Civil                  Equip-   sional    Sala-   Assist-
Sq. feet   Works    Furniture   ment       Fees      ries    ance        Fellowships   Total
I. COMMUNITY SCHOOLS PROGRAM
(a) Rural Primary Schools                               225,000   1,735         550        1                                                    2286
(b) Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute              12,645     360          34      108        30                200            96          828
(c) Adult Education                                                                       80                          100            60          240
(d) Research/Evaluation                                                                   25                   25                                 50
Sub-total                            237.645   2,095         584      214        30         25     300           156         3404
II. IMPROVEMENT OF SERVICES OF CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
(a) Administrative Reorganization                                                        45                   20     200            40          305
(b) Curriculum Development                                                                8                   40     105            56          209
(c) Testing & Measurement                                                                 8                          100            24          132
(d) Educational Publications                                        50          25      423                   60     100            60          718
(e) Planning and Research                                                                                            115            40          155
(f) Project Administration                                                               62                          125                        187
Sub-total                                         50          25      546         --       120     745           220         1706
III. PREPARATION FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
(a) Vocational Training                                                                           90                 75                        165
(b) Forest Ranger Training                                                                        20                               32           52
Sub-total                                        --          --        --       110                  75           32          217
TOTAL COST  (Including Taxes)                 2,145         609       760       140        145    1120           408         5327
Physical Contingencies                                                 113          --       28          2         --      --            --          143
Expected Price Increases                                              580         158       156        --         15      139            52        1100
Total of Contingencies                                                 693         158      184          2         15     139            52         1243
Costs including taxes and contingencies                              2,838         767      944        142        160    1259           460         6570
Taxes and customs duties percentage                                     24%         25%      20%         5%        16%      4% 7.                   17.2%
Base line cost without taxes                                         1.630        457       608        133        121    1075           408         4432
Contingencies without taxes                                            527         120      147          2         13     133            52          994
Total project cost without taxes                                     2,157         577      755        135        134    1208           460         5426
Foreign exchange %                                                      60%         70%      90%        70%        --      88%          100%        73.6%
Foreign exchange component  net of taxes (including                  1,294         404      679         95         --    1063           460         399e
contingencies)
Percentage of Foreign Exchange by Category                             32.4%       10.1%    17.0%      2.4%        __      26.67.      11.5%        100%
Estimates as of April 1976
Source: World Bank Mission                                                                                                                                   41
March 1976                                                                                                                       /



LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES (COSTS NET OF TAXES)
(US$ 000)
Site  Development                                                           Professional                 Local                 Technical                                            TOTAL
and  Buildings             Furniture               Equipment                   Fees                    Salaries               Assistance                Fellowships         Local and Foreign
L-.-;     Fc.eign       Lo_al      Foseign   Lolal          Foreign        Lo .al    Foraign         Local    Foreign        Local    Foreign         Local    Foreign            Currencies
Local/Foreign Percentages           40%        60%          30%           70%       10%          90%            30%         70%         100%        --            12%       88%            --        100%                --
1. Baseline Costs                  ''2        978          137          320         61          547             40         93            171        --           129       346             __        408                4,432
(1,630)                    (457)                    '608)                       (133)                    (121)                 (1,075)                    (408)             (1.140 +  3,292)
II. Contingency Amount1             21ii      316           36            84        15          132             --           2            13        --            16        117            --          52                  994
(Physical + Price)-               (527)                     (120)                   (147)                        ( 2)                      (13)                   (133)                     (52)             (  291  +   703)
Cointingency Percentages        32.36%   32.31%        26.28%        26.25%   24.59%        24.13%            _     _   2.15%        10,66%   -               1''.40%   12.38% ;) --              12.75%      25.50%  21.35%
III. Total Project Cost             8t3     1,294          173           404        76          679             40          95           134        __           145      1,063            --         460                5,426
(I + II)                      (2,157)                     (577)                   (755)                       (135)                     (134)                 (1,208)                    (460)             (1,431 +  3,995)
t/ Physical contingencies cumprise only $55,000 (in site
development and buildings) and are therefore amalgamated
with price contingencies.
Estimates as of April 1976.
Source: World Bank Mission
Narch 1976



ADNEX 4 (c)
LIBERIA:  SECOND EDUCATION PROJRCT
PRICE CONTINGqRCIES ASSUMPTIONS
(in percent)
1976               1977-79
Civil Works
Local                          13                   12
Foreign                         13                  12
Furniture
Local                          10                   10
Foreign                         10                  10
Equipment
Local                            9                   8
Foreign                          9                   8
Technical Assistance and
Fellowships
Local                            8                   8
Foreign                          8                   8
Source: World Bank Mission
March 1976



ANNEX 4 (d)
LIBERIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IBRD FINANCING BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US$ Thousands)
Cost
Net of   Government    IBRD    % IBRD
Project Item                    Taxes     Finance   Finance   Finance
Construction including               1,630        652        978         60%
site development
Furniture                              457        137        320         70%
Equipment                              608         61        547         90%
Professional fees                      133         40         93         70%
Local salaries                         121        121         -           -
Technical assistance                 1,075        129        946         88%
Fellowships                            408         -         408        100%
Unallocated                            994        295        703         71%
Total                                5,426      1,422      3,995         74%
Estimates as of April 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND CATEGORY (IN US$ 1000)
Area       Cons-      Fur-      Equip-   Prof.   Local         Tech.   Fellow-
Sq. ft.   truction   niture   ment        Fees    Salaries   Asst.   ships        Total
I. COMMUNITY SCHOOLS PROGRAM
(a) Provision ot 100 primary school modular units
in counties of Lofa, Bong, Cape Mount, Montserrado,
Grand Bassa, Nimba                                       225,000      1,735        550        1       --           --                       2,286
(b) Extension and improvement of Zorzor Rural Teacher
Training Institute - (increase of enrollment from
300 to 370)                                               12,645         360        34      108       30           --    200        96         828
(i) Construction - 70 place women's hostel                 4,900    147.00       15.00    5.00   11.54                                     178.54
(ii) Construction - 3 new staff houses                      3,294      61.62       3.00    5.00    5.10                                      74.72
(iii) Construction - Agricultural workshop                    1,051     25.70       1.00   16.50    2.03                                       45.23
(iv) Minor works/repairs - Demonstration school                800     20.00       5.00    2.00    2.40                                      29.40
(v) Minor works/repairs - Home Economics Room                 600     15.00       5.00    6.00    1.80                                      27.80
(vi) Materials for renovation  2  staff houses               2,000     33.91       2.00    3.00                                              38.91
(labor to be supplied by ZRTTI).
(vii) Equipment for agr. sc./biol., arts/crafts,                                    3.00    7.00                                               10.00
home economics, adminis.
(viii) Vehicles for transport of goods and for extension                                     23.00                                              23.00
services. 1 truck + 1 4-wheel drive vehicle
(ix) Special works - water supply treatment and                         4.00               40.50    4.80                                      49.30
storage; expansion of electrical generating                       52.77                         2.33                                    55.10
capacity and unforeseen works
(x) Techinical assistance and fellowships                                                                              200.00      96.00   296.00
(c) Adult Education  - Strengthening of supervisory service   --              --         --       80      --                 100        60         240
2 man-years technical assistance                                                                                       100.00               100.00
10 man-years fellowships for 10 persons to be trained                                                                               60.00    60.00
in African Universities
10 Vehicles (9 equipped for projection of movies/slides).                                  80.00                                              80.00       e
OQ
(d) Research/Evaluation                                            --         __              25.00                 25.00                        50.00       0
-                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o D3F
Sub-Total I.  Community Schools Program                        --      2,095        584      214      30            25   300       156       3,404       ffi Z
!Z
_                                 W ~~~~~~~~x
aOz    (



Area       Cons-        Fur-      Equip-   Prof.   Local          Tech.      Fellow-
Sq. ft.   truction   niture   ment          Fees    Salaries   Assist.   ships           Total
II. IMPROVEMENT OF SERVICES OF CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
(a) Administrative Reorganization                                                                      45                    20        200          40       305
(i) 4 man-years specialists through IPA
(ii) 2-man-years Min  Educ. Staff support                                                                                 20        200                   220
(iii) Fellowships 3 m.y. Accountancy (2)                                                                                                          40        40
10 m.m. Procurement (2)
(iv) Trucks/vans for transport of school supplies;                                                  45                                                     45
and equipment for establishing personnel records
(b) Curriculum Development                                            --            --        --        8       --           40         105         56       209
(i) 18 man-months specialist for coordination
6 m.m. specialist for technology                                                                                             105                   105
4 m.y. specialists in writing syllabi                                                                              40                               40
(ii) 3 m.y. fellowships (3 persons) in curriculum                                                                                                56        56
development
4 m.y. fellowships (2 persons) in teaching tech-
nology
(iii-) vehicle                                                                                        8                                                      8
(c) Testing and Measurement                                           --            --        --        8       --           __         100         24       132
(i) 2 man-years specialist                                                                                                         100                   100
(ii) 3 man-years fellowships (3 persons)                                                                                                         24        24
(iii) vehicle                                                                                         8                                                       8
(d) Educational Publications                                          --            50        25      423       __           60         100         60        718
(i) 2 man-years specialist
6 man-years writing specialists (direct hire).                                                                      60         100                   160
(ii) 6 man-years fellowships in general editing
1 man-year art editing (3 m.y.-2 persons)                                                                                                  60         60
and in typesetting, production management,
photography, maintenance (2 m.y.-7 persons)
(iii) Supplementary equipment for printing/photography;
van for distribution and 4-wheel drive type                                                  423                                                     423   e
vehicle for staff field work                                                                                                                                 '
Supplies of paper, ink, chemicals, film, etc. for                                                                                                           (D
initial operations                                                                                                                                         Po
(iv) Minor works for adaptation of publication work-                                                                                                              
shop and air conditioning                                                  50        25                                                               75
40_



Area       Cons-       Fur-     Equip-   Prof.   Local         Tech.      Fellow-
Sq. ft.   truction   niture   ment        Fees    Salaries   Assist.   ships         Total
(e) Planning and Research                                           --          --                                                 115         40      155
(i) 1 man-year specialist in Educ. planning
1 man-year specialist in tech. educ. planning
3 man-months specialist in educational
radio programming                                                                                                     115                 115
(ii) 5 man-years fellowships in educational
planning (3 persons)                                                                                                                40       40
(f) Project Administration                                          --          --        --       62      --            --        125         --      187
(i) 6 man-months for extension of existing position                                                                            125                 125
in P.I.U.
2 man-years specialist educ. architecture
(ii) 4 vehicles, office equip. and supplies                                                    62                                                    62
Sub-Total II.  Central Administration                           --          50        25      546       __          120        745        220   1,706
III. Preparation for Future Development Projects
(a) Vocational Training
(i) 18 man-months specialist vocational planner                                                                               75                  75
(ii) architectural studies for V.T.C.                                                                 90                                           90
(b) Forest Ranger Training
(i) 4 man-years fellowships (2 persons)                                                                                                  32       32
(ii) architectural studies                                                                            20                                           20
Sub-Total III.  Preparation Future Projects                     --          --        --       --      110           --        75          32      217
Total Base Line Costs including Taxes                      237,645       2,145       609      760      140          145    1,120          408   5,327
Taxes and Custom Duties Percentage                              --         24%       25%      20%                   16%        4%          --
00
Total Taxes per Category                                        --         515       152      152        7          24         45          --      895      w
o >
Total Base Line Costs without Taxes                             --       1,630       457      608      133          121    1,075          408   4,432       Lo
-                           r ~~~~~~~~~~x
Estimates as of  April 1976                                                                                                                                 04v
Source: World Bank Mission                                                                                                                                   m
March 1976



LIBERIA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
AND BASE LINE COST CALCULATIONS
A. Specialist Services
Project Item (Sub-Item)                Man-                                                                        Allocation
Persons  Months                        Description of Role                               in $
1. COMMUNITY SCHOOL PROGRAM
1 (b) Zorzor Rural Teacher      5        120    Training of teachers in disciplines (1) Educational Psychology         200,000
Training Institute                     (2) Language Arts (3) Mathematics (4) Science (5) Adult
Education methods (direct hire by Government)
1 (c) Adult Education            1        24    To assist in developing Adult Education program of the                 100,000
Ministry of Education
Sub-total         6        144                                                                            300,000
2. STRENGTHENING OF CENTRAL
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
2 (a) Administrative Re-       +3         48    Through IPA to assist Ministry of Education in reform of over-          200,000
organization                            all structure and procedures and particularly organization
and methods in personnel and financial administration.
2 (b) Curriculum Development   1          18    To coordinate finalization of curriculum revision                        75,000
1         6    To prepare technology curriculum                                         30,000
2 (c) Testing                    1        24    To assist in establishing expanded system of testing                    100,000
2 (d) Publications               1        24    To assist in establishing a publications unit and textbook              100,000
production
2 (e) Planning                  1         12    To finalize long range educational development plan                      50,000
1        12    To plan for technical education development                              50,000
2 (f) Project Administration   1          24    To provide architectural services for community schools and            100,000
architectural planning services to Ministry of Education
1         6    To assist Project Director generally                                     25,000    i
Sub-total         11       174                                                                            730,000      H
0
isI,



of       Man-                                                                        Allocation
Persons  Months                         Description of Role                               In $
3.   PREPARATORY WORK FUTURE
PROJECTS
3   (a)  Vocational Training         1        18      To assist in establishing of Vocational Training Council             75,000
and plan for Vocational Training Center
(d)  Feasibility - Study         1        3       To assess feasibility of Educational Broadcasting                    15,000
(Radio Programming)
Sub-Total        2       21                                                                            90,000
Grand Total       19      339                                                                         1,120,000
B. Other Services
1  (d)  Research/Evaluation         6        30      To carry out research/evaluation concerning community                 25,000
schools program
2  (a)  Administrative Reform       1        24      To assist in IPA study                                                20,000
2  (b)  Syllabus Writing            4        48      To finalize syllabuses                                                40,000
2  (d)  Textbook preparation        6        72      To write textbooks                                                    60,000
Sub-Total        17       174                                                                           145,000
C. FELLOWSHIPS                                                          Field of Training
1  Community Schools Program
1  (b) ZRTTI                       10        144      Teacher Training methods                                             96,ooo
1  (c) Adult Education             10        100      Adult education techniques and supervision                           60,000
Sub-Total        20        244                                                                          156,000
2 Strengthening of Central
Administrative Services
2  (a) Administrative Reorgani-   1           24      Accountancy    o
zaio                       1         1      Accutac         one to serve in Project Unit                          26,000  
zation                       1        12      Accountancy 
2        10      Procurement (one to serve in Project Unit)                           14,000
0
2  (b) Curriculum Development       2         48      Applied science (technology) for secondary school teaching           32,000
3        36      Curriculum Development                                               24,000 ooo
2  (c) Testing                      2         24      Educational Testing and Measurement                                  16,000
1        12      Educational Testing and Measurement (technical education)              8,000         @ -



Number                                                                               Allocation
of      Man-
Persons  Months                             Field of Training                           in $
2 (d) Publications             1         12        General Editing                                                   8,000
1        12        Art Editing                                                       8,000
1        24        Art Editing                                                      16,000
2         7        Typesetting
2         6        Maintenance                                                       8
2         6        Photography                                                      8,000
1         5        Production Management
2 (e)  Planning                 1         24        Educational Planning                                             16,000
1        24        Educational Planning                                             16,000
1        12        Educational Planning                                              8,000
Sub-Total     25        298                                                                        230,000
3 (a) Forest Ranger Training   2          48        Training of Forest Rangers                                       32,000
Grand Total       47       590                                                                        408,000
Source: World Bank Mission
April 1976
oq
(D
w
0
tJM
ci)



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION WORKS AND FOR PROCUREMET! OF
FURNITURE AND TEACHING EQUIPMENTL/
*       I      19 7177          1978         1 979            1980
Joint Responsibility  **      19 76  _          1977             1978             1979
Ref.   Implementation Activity                    of PIU and               21 23    4   1   2   3   4   1 |2   3   4   1   2   3   4
I(a)   Community Schools
(i)    Site Identification of Selection           EFO                     X
(ii)   Architectural  Designs - Aproval           EFO                      DD DDD
(iii)  Cost Quotation by CARE                     CARE                           $
(iv)   Concluding Agreement with CARE             GOL                      EE
(v)    Construction of Buildings                  CARE                                 III III III  II III III III  II III III I
(vi)   Furniture                                  EFO                      DD D   $$E E    II III III III III III III III III III
(vii)  Equipment Scheduling/Delivery              EFO                           DD DDD III III III III III III III
I(b)   Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute
(i)    Architectural Brief                        PIU Archi ect            XX
(ii)   Architectural Designs/Approval             Consulting Architect          DD DD
(iii)  Bidding Procurement/Approval                        "                       DD
(iv)   Bids - Evaluation Award                             "                         $ $EE
(v)    Construction/Retention                     Contractor                                 II III III III IRR RRR RRR RRR R
(vi)   Furniture/Designs/Bids/Delivery            EFO - Supplier                            DDD $$E E    II III
(vii) Equipment/Scheduling/Bids/Delivery                                         D DD$ $$E E      I II   II II
II     Building Adaptation to Printery            Public Works                          DD $EI II
III    Architectural Work Future Projects                                      XXX DDD DDD
(a)   Vocational Training Center                  MLYS                                                                                         l
(b)   Forest Ranger Training Center               M.A.                                                                                         i
1/  excluding vehicles                            1. CARE   Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
a/ Date of Negotiation                            2. CSPU   Community Schools Program Unit Bureau of Instruction
b~/ Date of Effectiveness                         3. EF      Educational Facilities Office  Bureau of Planning and Research
Symbol Legend:                                     4. M.A.   Ministry of Agriculture
X Site Investigation                             5. MLYS   Ministry of Labor Youth and Sports
D Arch. Designs, Preparation of lists
$ Bids or Quotations                            *  Fiscal Year
E Evaluation/Award                               ** Calendar Year
I Construction/Supply
R Retention Period
Source:  World Bank Mission
I r-fL 1.97(
oQ
A) 



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PROCUREMENT OF VEHICLES
NON TEACHING EQUIPMENT OFFICE AND INITIAL OPERATION SUPPLIES
Joint Respon-                      1977             1978         1 979            1980
sibility of        k*     1976             1977             1978        _    1979
Ref.    Implementation Activity                                PIU and               1   2   3   4   1   2  1 3  4    1   2   3   41        2       4
A       Procurement of Vehicles                                                          a/ b/
(a)     2 vehic. to ZRTTI                                              ZRTTI                DD $$A       CC
(b)     I vehic. to Research & Documentation                           DRD               DD $AA C
(cl)    1 vehic. Adult Ed. - Central Office                            DAE               DD $AA C
(c2)    9 vehic. Adult Ed. - Counties (5 + 4)                          it                        DD  $A!    CC  DD  $A        CC
ku)     2 vans - Administration                                        DMA                   DD $$A      cc
(e)     1 vehic. Curriculum Development                       ,        DCD               D $AA C
(f)     1 vehic. Testing                                               DTE               DD $AAC C
(g)     1 4-wheel drive vehicle - Publications                         DPP               DD $AA C
(h)     1 van - Publications                                                                         DD;$$A CC
(j)     2 vehic. - Project Administration                              EFO                   DD $$AID  cc
(k)     2 vehic. - Project Administration                              EFO                                        DD $$A      cc
B       Procurement of  non teaching Equipment & Supplies
(a)     Office supplies and equipment  Research & Documentation        DRD              DD $AC          C        C        C
(b)     Office supplies and equipment  Personnel Records               DP                    D$ A   CC
(c)     Publications  Supplies                                         DPP/PU                 D $$Al    cc        D$ A C C      D $A   CC
(d)     Publications  Equipment                                        DPP/Pli         DDD D$$ $A                CCC CCC CCC CCC
(e)     Office equipment & supplies  Project Administration            EFO             DDD  $A   C    ic  |      $AA   C               - I
a/Date of negotiations                                                            *  Fiscal year
b/ Date of Effectiveness                                                          ** Calendar Year
Symbol Legend:
$ Bids                                                              DAE    Division of Adult Education
D Preparation                                                       DCD    Division of Curriculum Development
A Evaluation/award                                                  DMA    Deputy Minister for Administration
C Supply                                                            DP     Division of Personnel
DPP/PU Division of Printing and Production/PublicatiOTs Unit
DRD    Division of Research and Documentation, Bureau of Planning and
Source:  World Bank Mission                                                     Research
A..r4-]  ,976                                                                                                                                 1
Aril~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a IX
S C,



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF SPECIALIST SERVICES
1977      !     1978             1[- 1980
No. of       No. of       Joint Responsibi-   **   1976       1       1977            1978             1979
Location and specialization   Specialists  man/months  lity of PIU and         1 1 2 , 3   4   1  __2  _3 14   1 1i2 I' 3   4    1   21 3   4
!a/  b! / ~
ZRTTI c/                                                                             _ ,   b
Adult Ed.1 Language Arts             2         2/24             Z&TT          DDDi $$C$ CC  CCiC c  CCC   CCC CCC
Science, Ed. Psych.1 Math            3        3/24                           l DDDC               . CC CcCC  CCCCCCCC
Adult Education                                                              jCCC CCC C 
Adult Education                      1        24                DAE          !DDDi $$,$   CC  CCC'CCC CCC CC  CCC|CCC!CCC
Research                                       6                                                                   IC  I
Evaluation/Research d/               6         6/5             DRD            DDD EE$CC                CC               C
Administrative Reform                                                                          CCC Icc
Administration                       1        24                IPA           DDD  $$$  !C C CCCCC  CCC CC  CCC CCC CCCi
2       2/12               "            DDD  $$$  ,    CCCICCC CCC CC          I
Support for study                    2        24                 "            DDD  $$1$  ;CC  CCCICCC CCC CC  CCCICCCCCC
Curriculum Development                                                                            I
Syllabus writing d/                  4         4/12             DCD           DDD  EE  CCiCC  cCc CCC'C 
Curriculum Co-ordination             1        18                 "            DDD  $$ $  | C  CCC CCCCCC CC  OCCIC
Technology                           1         6                 "i           DDD  $$ $        CCC CCC             I
Testing
Educational Measurement              1        24                DTE           DDD  $$ $        CCC CCCiCCC CC  CCC CCC CCCiCC!
Publications                                                                                                               I
Educational Publications             1        24                DPP/PU        DDD  $$ $        CC CCc CCC   cCCc ccc ccc cc
Writers d/                           6         6/12             DPP/PU        DDD  EE           CC CCC CCC CC  C
Planning
Educational Planning                 1        12                BP            DDD  $$ $        CCC CCCi CCC CC
Technical Educ. Planning             1        12                BST/BP        DDD  $$ $        CCC CCCi CCC cc
Radio Broadcasting                   1         3                BP            DDD  $  $              C CC
Project Administration                                                                  I!
Educ. Architecture                   1        24                BP            CCC CCC CCC:CC  CCC CCCICCC CC 
Project Management                   1         6                                                                               c I  CC
Vocational Training                                                                                I                             CCCCCj
Vocational Planning                   1       18                MLYS              I CCC CCC CC  CCC CCCiC                           |
Total                           464 4 6
a/Date of negotiations    c/ Direct hire by Government                            BST - Bureau of Science + Technical Education
b/ Date of effectiveness d/ Direct hire of local personnel by Government          BP  - Bureau of Planning
Symbol Legend_                                                                    IPA - Institute of Public Administration
E Approval of Employment terms                                                 DT  - Division of Textbook Preparation
D Terms of reference                                                            *  Fiscal Year                                                  m
$ Advertising - Evaluation - Appointments                                     **  Calendar Year                                                 w
C Tenure of position                                                                                                                            0
Source:  World Bank Mission                                                                                                                         |
- ril 'l7U
m!



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE  -  FELLOWSHIPS
No.       No. of      Joint Responsi-                 1977             1978             1919         198U
of        man/months  bility of         *      976      j      1977             1978    -        1979
Location and Specialization          Trainees     ea.   pIU and                           4 I 1 2 _3   4   I            3   4   1   2
ZRTTI
M~ath, Adult Ed. , Lang Arts                                 ZRTTI
Ed. Psycholagy, Science;               5         12                        DDD  $$ $ c CCC   ccc CCCjCC
Language Arts, Rural Science;          2          24                       DDD       IC CCC CCCCCC CCCCCC.CCC CCC CC
Adult Ed., Educational Psych.,                                                                         C i
Home  Econ., Soc. Studies, Math.       5          12                      IDDD;            $$          cccc         ccc cc
Adult Education                                                                 ,
Adult Education                        5          10         DAE           DDD  $$ $ C CCC ccci ccc cc        CC
"  5      10          1l            DDD           $  $$         CCCC' CCC   CC
Administration                                                                               ,
Accounting                             l          12         DMA            DDD  $$:s C ccc CCC ccc.cc
i    1 24            ,i             DDD' $$        cCCCI'CCC CCC  CCC;CCCi ccc ccc|cc
Procurement                            2           5          ,i           DDD      $       ICCC,CC  CCC CCC         I
Curriculum Development                  2          1          D             D    $    C C
Curriculum Dev. Techniques             2C12                   DDDD  $$1$                    cc   CCCCCC1C1
e~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 12                               "DDD| $$j$                   Ccc ccc cccl Cccc cI
Teaching of TcchnOiotr                 2          24                       DDDI $$$ cccCC         CCCICCC Cccc ccc|cc
-Testing-Measurement
Educ. Testing & Measurement            1          12         DTE           DDDi $$ $ Ccccccc CCC c C                 I
1    12                             DDD1  $$$         cc CCC iCCC CCCC
,,   wt   1  12       "             DDD,   1$   $$$    |        CICCC1 CCC    ICCC CC
Educational Publications                                                                     I       i
General Editorial                      1          12      )                 DDD  $$1$   C    cC   cccCcc
Art Editorial                          1          12                        DD&       C cccc |ccccccCiCC
Art Editorial                          1          24                        DDD!  $$1$' c,    CC CCc      ccc CCCCccc ccC
Typesetting                                                                               $ 3      C| c
Equipment Maintenance                  1           4      )  DPP/PU         DDD$$.  c CCC 
912  )                 IDDD$$1   |               c
Photography                            1           4                                          DDDI  c
1          2                                      WDD'  CC1
Production Management                  1           5      )                 DDD          $$     ccc cc
Planning                                                                                     I !
Educational Planning                   1          12      )  BP            DDD  $$$ C.CCC1CCC CCCjCC
if       ,,                        1         24                        DDD                        CC CCCCCc c    CcC Cc CC ccCC CCC
1         24                        DDD  $$!$       ICCCICCC,  $ $$  CCC CCC  C C  CCCCCCCCC
Forestry                                                                    |ID        C: ,CCjICCCCC CCC           CCCICC
Forest Ranger Training                 2          24         MA                                           C CDDD| $$C$ cCccc CcccCccc[ccc ccccc   c  CD
Total                47         590                       i   I
Symbol Legend                                                               *  Fiscal Year               a,  Date of negotiations
D Identification of suitable candidates and compiling of resumes         **  Calendar Year             b/  Date of Effectiveness
$ Arrangements for admission to places of study/attachment
C Tenure of Fellowship
Source: World BanR Mission
?f4j ql'7(



ANNEX 7
LIBERIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ thousands)
FISCAL                                       ACCUMULATED         UNDISBURSED
YEAR     QUARTER       DISBURSEMENTS      DISBURSEMENTS           BALANCE
1               95                  95               3,905
2              275                 370               3,630
1977
3              386                 756               3,244
4              573               1,329               2,671
1              516               1,845               2,155
2              556               2,401               1,599
1978
3              384               2,785               1,215
4              325               3,110                  B90
1              340               3,450                  550
2              199               3,649                  351
1979
3              216               3,865                  135
4               111              3,976                   24
1980        1                24               4,0Oo                   
Total      13             4,000               4,000                   0
Source: World Bank Mission
April 1976



LIBERIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(in UiS$ thousands)
Fiscal Year                               1977              1978                   1979           1980
quarters                     1    2    3    4       1     2    3    4      1    2    3    4       1
CATEGORY                       5 Amount
Professional Fees                    93     10   14   10   15    15   15   10    4    -    -
Technical Assistance and
Local Salaries                    946     62   52  148  148   142  121   63   57    61   45   23   17            7
Fellowships                         408     16   45   60   66    60   43   39   37    29    4    4    3            2
Subtotal A                  3,364      88  266  330  506   442  477  324  269   292  162  141   58           9
B. Price Escalation-Disbursement
Civil Works                         270                29   21    32   27   29   22    19   23   38   30
Furniture                            93                       4      7   11    3    8    12    7   22   12         8
Equipment                           102                  7   21    15   21   15   16        7
Professional Fees                    ;2                                         2
Technical Assistance and
Local Salaries                    115      7    5   16   16    15   14    7    7          7    6    7    5       3
Fellowships                          54            4    4    5       5    6    4    3       3    2    8    6       4
Subtotal B                    636       7    9   56   67    74  79    60   56    48   37   75   53    15
Total (A and B)             4,ooo      95  275  386  573   516  556  384  325   340  199  216  111    24
Estimated as of April 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



[BRD 1217
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-
K ~    ~~~~~~~~ a
L    0                            '                                                         Ali
'                                                                                                   (   GO I A   ro F e sT  } 6   f   A J  - .<  ............ q. .w -<f .......... - f Yekeprz,> * . , - v . ^. ,. ,- - . ............................................ ., . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....   .. ..    . ..  ...     ..   .  
COUNT Y                                                                    \   SuskokoNI BA -.-- -.-
t os     k                    9             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B O N GX   Gcnga r                          Sagleipie                                              -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10F
NT Yrs           F U N T
:           ~             ~             ~             \N          >                         /            \                      /   \                            m.n'-:~~~~GRA  D 
cOFFFN  T YOpeli
Zwedru ~ ~      ~
L I B E R I A           : .:                          XP                              Fks                 G     Rf             
SECOND EDUCATION PROJ EAN _DE'
ZOIZOR RURAL R    TEAcER TaAFNFFOO INSTITUTE         A                                 5                CO UNT OY
. OWFT ES OIN WHICH CUOMSUFI'T7y SWHOOLS             Atlantic
0UNSVA0hUC    D`EWRV1l5F    W RLPOEOCT                                                                                                           ate-,s
Hqrper  COUFNTF SEATS                                                   Oc c a!
~5       -         RWF7I 00,17,0                                                   ,                                                            I/\              0
SECONFDARY KOAMS
RAIL0OADS                                                a         75 7,
---  OBUNTTYEOUa3AalES                                          RkM3lii5s                                      Sor7O A7QS/   MARYLAND               P
_   IN_lFTEPFNAT7rJAL S3Lr%OARIES                                             r                  S7.;_C   UNTY                                           Pio
.70 ,00*0000 070 ..         .         .        .         .         M ,WM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 E:P  0_a* 004 ~7F  7o - 



