Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
| IL   CPY   |
Report No. 4 7 7 0
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN :1266-T-LBR)
November 4, 1983
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
Second Education Project (Loan 1266T-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
GLOSSARY
AfDB                    =  African Development Bank
AID                     = U.S. Agency for International Development
DEF                     = Department of Educational Facilities
FAO                     = Food and Agricultural Organization of the U.N.
FTI                     =  Forestry Training Institute
ILO                     =  International Labor Organization
LIPA                    = Liberian Institute of Public Administration
MOE                     = Ministry of Education
PIU                     = Project Implementation Unit
VTC                     = Vocational Training Center
WAEC                    = West African Examinations Council
ZRTTI                   =  Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






LIBERIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (1266-T LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ............................................................i
Basic Data Sheet .       .      ................ii
Mission Data .     ......................................................  iii
Highlights .    .     .......................................................  iv
Summary and Conclusions .....                                               vi
I.       PROJECT BACKR1JND..                       .       .                 1
Sectoral Setting   .    ......................., 1
Project Iden(lification and Processing.          .   .  .       1
Community Sciaool Program.                .     .    .          2
Project Objetives....                                           2
II.      PROJECT IMPLEMEKTATION.                                             4
Project Management.                                             4
Implementation of Hardware Components.                          5
Procurement of Equipment and Furniture.                         6
Quality and Functional Suitability of the Facilities            6
Implementation of Software Components.                          6
III.     PROJECT COSTS AD FINANCINGN...8
Project Costi.                       .        .                 8
Project Finacing               .       .       .10
IV.      PROJECT OUTCOMES.                                                  11
Community Schlool Program      o    g     r     am................  11
Primary Teachler Training .11
Adult Education .12
Evaluation of' the Community School Program                    13
Institution 1uilding .13
Administrative Reform ....................         .13
Curriculum Development .........................            14
Test Development .15
Educational Planning..                                      15
Educational Publicationsb................                   16
V.       THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE          ..18
Project Generation     .     ...                               18
Supervision           ..18
VI.       COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS       .       .19
VII.     MAIN LESSONS LEARNED. . . . .... .    ..........                   20



ANNEXES                                                                        Page No.
1    Comparison of Technical Assistance at Appraisal and Completion *.        23
2    Comparison of Fellowships at Appraisal and Completion           ..       25
3    Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actual Costs
of Project Components                                         ..       27
4    Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursement Schedule           ..       28
5    Chart of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedule               ..       29
6    Planned and Actual Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Principal Category     30
7    Compliance with Loan Agreement Covenants                        ..       31
8    Enrollment and Graduates of Zorzor Teacher Training
Institute:  1963-1980                                         ..       33
9    Enrollment at Project-Assisted Community Schools                ..       34
10   Implementation Schedule                                         ..       35



PREFACE
1.       This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Second Education
Project in Liberia for which the Board of Executive Directors approved a Third
Window Loan of US$4.0 million in May 1976. The Loan was fully disbursed by
the end of February 1983.
2.       The PCR records and evaluates experience gained in the implementation
of the project. It does this by comparing the performance of the various
components of the project with the objectives specified at appraisal. The
Report discusses in greater detail the project's outcome in strengthening the
administrative and professional capabilities of the Ministry of Education, as
institution building has increasingly become a major objective in many Bank-
assisted education projects.
3.       The Report is based on the findings of a completion mission that
visited Liberia in November 1982. While in Liberia, the mission visited
various project sites for community schools and the Zorzor Rural Primary
Teachner Training Institute. The mission also held discussions with senior
officials of the Ministry of Education, with officials of the non-govermental
agency that constructed the schools and with as many primary school principals
and teachers as time permitted. Their full cooperation is acknowledged. The
Report attempts to reflect the perspectives gained from these site visits and
interviews.
4.       The mission also reviewed the Bank files on this project, the Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 1036b-LBR) dated May 13, 1976, the President's Report
(P1795a-LBR) dated May 13, 1976, the legal documents and working papers. The
mission also interviewed Bank staff who were involved in the design and
preparation of the project.
5.       The Operations Evaluation Department decided not to audit the
project and sent the Project Completion Report to the Government in July 1983.
No comments have been received from the Government.






- ii -
LIBERIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 1266T-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Estimate          Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)           5.43 million     5.95 million
Amount Under or Overrun                  --               9.7%
Loan Amount (US$ million)                  4.0 million      4.0 million
Disbursed                                4.0 million      4.0 million
Cancelled
Outstanding                              --               4.0 million
Date Physical Components Completed         6/79             8/82
Proportion of Time OverrurL                --               100%
Economic Rate of Return                    N/A              N/A
Financial Performance                      --               --
Institutional Performance                  --               Good
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Calendar Years)
1976    1977    1978     1979    1980    1981    1982     1983
Appraisal Estimates       ';70  2,401   3,649   4,000    4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000
(US$ OOOs)
Actual  (US$ 000's)        40   1,037   1,690   2,435    3,085   3,623   3,965   4,000
Actual as % Appraisal      11      43      46      61       77      91      99     100
Other Project Data               Original      Revisions        Actual
First Mention in Files                                           4/74
Government's Application                                      11/8/74
Negotiations                                                     4/76
Board Approval                                     -          5/21/76
Date of Loan Agreement                             -           6/7/76
Loan Effectiveness                 -               -           7/8/76
Closing Date                     10/31/80       8/31/82        2/7/83
Borrower                         Government of Liberia
Executing Agency                 Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower          July 1 - June 30
Follow-on Projects Name          Third Education Project - Fourth Education Project
Loan/Credit No.                  Ln. 1417-LBR               Cr. 1306-LBR
Amount (US$ million)             6.3                        13.5
Date of Loan/Credit Agreement    5/26/77                    12/10/82






- iii -
MISSION DATA
Sent   Month/   No. of   No. of    Total       Date of
Mission                   by     year    Weeks     Persons   ManWeeks    Report
Reconnaissance            IBRD    4/74     2.5        3        7.5        9/18/74
Reconn/Identification     IBRD   11/74     1.0        3        3.0       12/04/74
Preparation               IBRD    4/75     4.0        6       24.0        6/20/75
Appraisal                 IBRD   11/75     2.7        3        8.1        5/13/76
Postappraisal             IBRD    3/76     1.4        1        1.4        4/08/76
Postappraisal             IBRD    5/76     1.2        3        3.6        8/10/76
Total                                                     47.6
Supervision
1   -  ENG/ED             IBRD    8/76     1.0        2        2.0       8/30/76
2   -  ED (2)             IBRD   11/76     1.0        2        2.0        1/05/77
3   -  ENG                IBRD    2/77     1.0        1        1.0        3/21/77
4   -  ED/ENG/EC          IBRD  3-4/77     0.4        3        1.2        4/18/77
5   -  ED (2)             IBRD    5/77     0.5        2        1.0       6/06/77
6   - ENG                 IBRD    7/77     1.0        1        1.0       10/12/77
7   -  ENG/EC             IBRD    2/78     1.0        2        2.0        5/09/78
8   - EN/EC               IBRD   10/78     0.9        2        1.8       12/21/78
9   -  ENG                IBRD    1/79     0.5        1        0.5       4/12/79
10  - ARC/ED/EC           IBRD    8/79     0.3        3        0.9       10/05/79
11  -  ARC                IBRD   12/79     0.6        1        0.6       1/28/80
12  -  EC/ED (2)          IBRD    3/80     0.5        3        1.5       5/05/80
13  -  EC/ARC             IBRD    7/8(     0.7        2        1.4       10/03/80
14  -  EC/ARC             IBRD    2/81     0.5        2        1.0       4/24/81
15  -  EC/ARC            IBRD    10/81    0.4         2       0.8        12/24/81
16  - ARC                 IBRD    3/82     0.4        1        0.4       4/27/82
Total                                                       19.1
Completion
ED/ARC/YP (EC)          IBRD   10/82     1.5        3        4.5       6/30/83
Total
Key:  ED - Educator;   ENG - Engineer;  EC - Economist;   YP - Young Professional
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
US$1.00 = L$1.00






- iv -
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The Second Education Project in Liberia (Loan 1266T-LBR) provided a
loan of US$4.0 million to assist the Government (a) in expanding primary
school enrollment by extending a recently introduced community school program,
and (b) in undertaking reforms of the administrative structure of the Ministry
of Education including strengthening of its professional services.  The
project also provided assLstance for preparation of a follow-up project
already identified.
2.       The project has been satisfactorily implemented at a cost close to
appraisal estimates, with the relatively minor exceptions noted below:
(a)  upgrading and rehabilitation of a facility to house a printing press
was deleted when the Government decided to procure printed textbooks
under the Fourth Education Project instead of preparing and
publishing books under this project (para. 4.25);
(b)  evaluation of the community school program was started but not
completed (para. 4.08).
3.       The Loan Account was closed on February 7, 1983. The project was
planned to be implemented in 48 months; this proved quite unrealistic.
Instead, the project took five years and ten months to implement, which is
still below the average implementation period for a Bank-financed education
project.
4.       This is one of a few education projects where a private, non-
governmental agency was entrusted with implementation of a major civil works
component of the project -- the community schools. In selecting a non-
Government instead of private contractors, the Government had at least three
expectations: that the schools would be constructed at a relatively lower
cost than would be the case under commercial contractors, that a non-
Government would train Liberians in basic construction and construction
management skills, and that community participation would be mobilized. On
the whole, there is a consensus among Government officials and the Bank that
the agency's performance in respect to those three objectives was up to
expectations (paras. 7.04 - 7.07).
5.       An important objective of the project was to assist the Government in
strengthening its capability to plan and manage its educational system. To
achieve this objective, the project financed over 300 manmonths of technical
assistance and close to 600 manmonths of fellowships. This was perhaps one of
the most comprehensive attempts in a Bank-financed project to improve and to
reform educational administration. Even though implementation of the
technical assistance and fellowship components met persistent delays (paras.
2.16, 2.17 and 7.03), it is now clear that for the most part these efforts
made a significant contribution to strengthening the administration and
technical services of the Ministry of Education and that as a result, the
Ministry is much more efficient and better prepared technically than it was in
1976 (paras. 4.15 - 4.22). It should be noted that institution building is a
long-term process and tha.t efforts begun under the Second Project are being
reinforced with assistance provided under the Fourth Project (Cr. 1306-LBR).
Other points of interest are:



(a) The community school program was successful in expanding primary
school enrollment, even though the broader objective of using the
schools as community and adult literacy centers did not materialize
as planned (para. 4.03);
(b) The textbook publications component was not fully implemented.
Almost no progress was made in writing or printing books, or deciding
when and how to do so. Toward the end of the project, the Government
adopted a policy of procuring textbooks. This decision laid the
groundwork for Bank financing of a relatively large textbook
procurement program under the Fourth Project (paras. 4.25 - 4.27).



- vi -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
1.       The Second Education Project in Liberia (Loan 1266T-LBR) provided
a Third Window loan of US$4.0 million to assist the Government: (a) in
expanding primary (communLty) education, and (b) in strengthening the
administration and technical services of the Ministry of Education. The
Project was completed largely as planned, at a cost 9.7% above appraisal
estimates, and with a time overrun of 100%. The principal features of the
project and its contribution to educational development in Liberia are
summarized below under the headings Project Generation and Project Objectives,
Project Implementation and Project Outcome. The principal lessons that could
be derived from the project are highlighted under Main Lessons learned (Chap.
VII).
Project Generation and Project Objectives
2.       When the project was identified in 1974 with the assistance of UNDP,
Unesco and UNICEF, the Government was engaged in implementing what was then
known as a "community school" program, and had already established 35
community schools. These schools originally had the rather ambitious
objective of serving as "the principal vehicle for community development," in
collaboration with other ]Ministries, including Health, Agriculture, Labor and
Youth and Sports. Subsequently, the objectives of the schools were scaled
down and were conceived essentially as regular primary schools which would
also provide adult literacy classes. A major objective of the project was to
expand and improve primarr education by extending coverage of these community
schools to 50 additional villages and by strengthening primary teacher
training (paras. 1.06-1.08).
3.       A second importaat objective of the project was institution-
building.  The project financed 330 manmonths of technical assistance and 590
manmonths of fellowships to study the administrative organization of the
Ministry of Education and to strengthen its technical services (curriculum
development, testing, eduational planning, and educational publications) and
some of its administrative services.
Project Implementation
4.       Implementation oi Civil Works.   The civil works components were
implemented largely as planned, with the following exceptions: (a) only
forty-six of the planned fifty schools were constructed and (b) rehabilitation
of a facility intended to house a printing press was not undertaken (para.
2.05).
5.       As planned, cons-ruction of the community schools was entrusted to a
private non-governmental organization from the United States. The agency was
selected by the Government with at least three expectations: (a) that agency
would construct the schoo:Ls at lower cost than private contractors; (b) that
agency would train Liberians in various construction and construction
management skills, and (c) that in view of its many years of experience in
community work, the agency would enhance community participation in providing



- vii -
land and clearing sites. The overriding objective nonetheless was to
construct well-designed schools as efficiently as possible. On the whole, the
Government and the Bank are satisfied that its expectations have been met
(paras. 2.06, 4.02, and 7.02 - 7.06).
6.       A rural primary teacher training institute at Zorzor (ZRTTI) was
expanded as planned (a new hostel, staff houses and a workshop were
constructed). Unlike the community schools, the contract for civil works at
ZRTTI was awarded to a private contractor, following the Bank's procurement
guidelines. Because of cost overruns, water and electricity supplies have not
been improved as planned (para. 2.07).
7.       Implementation of Software Components.   Despite persistent and at
times prolonged delays, the technical assistance component was fully
implemented, at a cost 15.2% above appraisal estimates. The fellowship
component met persistent delays as well, and had to be reduced by about 20%
due to cost overruns (para. 2.15).
8.       The project implementation schedule called for the return of
fellowship holders well in advance of the end of the experts' term. However,
on account of these delays, there was no overlap. The contributions of the
project to educational development in Liberia in respect to its two principal
objectives --expanding primary education through the community school program,
and institution building-- are summarized below.
Project Outcome
9.       Community School Program.   On the whole, the community school program
was highly successful in expanding primary school enrollment. The appraisal
target of providing 12,000 places (including 4,000 new ones) was exceeded,
even though only 46 of the 50 schools were constructed. As planned, community
participation in construction of the schools was adequate, particularly at the
initial stage. In regard to broader objectives of "reorienting" primary
schools, or of introducing "practical" subjects, however, the project had at
best limited success. This was largely because most of the schools did not
have trained teachers and the equipment that was supposed to have been
provided by Unicef did not materialize. In the end, the community schools
were virtually indistinguishable from regular primary schools in terms of
programs (paras. 4.02 - 4.03).
10.      As part of the community school program, the project provided civil
works, technical assistance and fellowships for a rural primary teacher
training institute at Zorzor. Implementation of these components took place
largely as planned at appraisal. The Institute, however, did not achieve all
of the targets set at appraisal. For instance, only half the fellowships was
used; the enrollment of women did not increase as planned; a special course
that was introduced to train "rurally oriented" teachers as agreed at
appraisal was discontinued after only two years. Nonetheless, largely because
of the assistance received under the project (and from other external agencies
such as USAID), the Institute is today perhaps the leading primary teacher
training institution in the country, with a well-designed (and well-
maintained) campus and a good academic program (paras. 4.04 - 4.05).



- viii -
11.      Also, as part of the community school program, the project provided
equipment, fellowships End technical assistance to strengthen and expand adult
education services of the Ministry of Education. While some progress was made
(e.g., some of the fellowship recipients have returned and occupy senior
positions at the Ministry), on the whole the findings of the Completion
Mission confirm that adult education has not been given priority by the
authorities (para. 4.06 - 4.07).
12.      The project prcovided assistance to evaluate the community school
program. The evaluation. was started in 1977, but had not been finalized at
the time of Project Completion (para. 4.08)
Institution Building
13.      Administration Reform.   The project financed technical assistance and
fellowships to address serious weaknesses in the organization and
administration of the Ministry of Education. With the help of the Liberian
Institute of Public Administration (LIPA), a systematic study was undertaken
in preparing job descriptions, formulating improved organizational structure,
and implementing a staff training program. Although this component achieved
less than the original objectives, it was largely successful and has had a
substantial impact on improving the organization and procedures of the MOE
(paras. 4.10 - 4.15)
14.      Curriculum Development.   The project provided technical assistance,
fellowships and equipment to establish a curriculum development unit, to plan
long-term curricula, and to train staff in curriculum development. The
training component was, on the whole, successful, as were efforts to establish
a curriculum development unit and to develop curricula in some subjects. On
the less positive side, the effectiveness of the center continues to be
undermined by parallel efforts in curriculum development which are apparently
still going on in disparate parts of the Ministry (paras. 4.16 - 4.18).
15.      Test Development.  Except for some preliminary work done by the
technical assistance expert during his two-year tenure, this component did not
meet the objectives of preparing standardized tests for Grades 9 and 12.
Eventually, the Ministry's Examinations Department was transferred to form the
Liberia branch of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), which is being
assisted under the Fourth Education Project (paras. 4.19 - 4.20).
16.      Educational Planning.  This component met several of its objectives,
and the Bureau of Planniag and Development is considerably stronger than at
appraisal. The fact that the Educational Planning Department played a major
role in identifying and preparing in detail the Fourth Education Project
reflects the contribution of this project in developing planning capability
in the MOE (paras. 4.21 - 4.22).
17.      Educational Publications.   The technical assistance and fellowship
aspects of this component were implemented largely as envisaged. However, in
the absence of a textbook policy, the project did not achieve its ultimate
goal of providing primary school textbooks.   Toward the end of this project,
the Government adopted key decisions on selection, pricing and distribution of
textbooks, thereby clearing the way for Bank financing of a relatively large
textbook component under the Fourth Project (paras. 4.23 - 4.28).



- ix -
Conclusions: Lessons Learned
18.      Institution Building.   This was one of the earliest and most
intensive institution buildings efforts in a Bank-assisted project in the West
Africa Region. The lessons that emerge include: institution building is a
long-term process and requires successive assistance through follow-up
projects; technical assistance experts should stay long enough to assist in
the implementation of the plans and recommendations they helped develop in the
course of the project; when the implementation of a component (such as
textbook procurement) requires appropriate policy decisions, such policies
should be promulgated before the project is launched (paras. 7.02 - 7.03).
19.      Use of a Non-Governmental Organization.   This is one of a few
education projects where a non-governmental organization was entrusted with
implementation of a major civil works component. On the whole, the agency's
performance in terms of constructing schools cost-effectively, in enhancing
community participation and training local staff in construction skills was
quite satisfactory. The lesson that emerges from this experience is that
where there are clearly useful possibilities for cooperating with non-
governmental organizations, those opportunities should be exploited to the
maximum (paras. 7.04 - 7.07).
20.      Provision of Motor Vehicles.   Only five of 22 vehicles procured for
the project were in operating condition three or four years after they were
bought due to lack of maintenance and spare parts and vandalism and abuse,
especially durig the 1980 coup. An important lesson for the Bank is that
adequate provision should be made for financing local costs for vehicle
maintenance and purchase of spare parts in countries that experience unusual
difficulties in meeting operating costs (paras. 5.06 and 7.08).



I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Sectoral Setting
1.01     At the time of project generation (the mid-1970s), the Liberian
economy had a dual nature consisting of a relatively prosperous foreign
enclave sector and an underdeveloped subsistence sector.   The foreign enclaves
(iron, rubber and forestry) provided employment for only 8% of the population,
but contributed almost half (42%) of the GDP. Subsistence agriculture, on the
other hand, supported 7(% of the population, but contributed only 25% to the
GDP. The urban elite - professional and managerial class which constituted
only 5% of the population -- received about 60% of the country's total income.
1.02     Disparities were found in the educational system, between urban and
rural areas. The primary school enrollment ratio for Monrovia was over 70%,
compared to an average of only 40% for the rest of the country. Per student
expenditures averaged $54 for Monrovia schools compared to only $23 at rural
primary schools. This resulted from inequities in the allocation of school
resources such as qualified teachers, textbooks, teaching materials and school
equipment. Further, the education system required strengthening in the areas
of administration, coordination and planning. To address these shortcomings,
the Government of Liberia approached the Bank with a request for assistance to
improve, expand and re-Drient its primary school system.
Project Identification and Processing
1.03     At earlier stages of project generation, various components were
being considered. The Bank reconnaissance mission that visited Liberia in
April 1974 recommended --on the basis of the Government's request-- Bank
financing for primary (community) schools, primary teacher training and
technical assistance for strengthening educational administration and project
management. Shortly after the reconnaissance mission, an ILO team visited
Liberia and recommended Bank financing of a vocational training center.
Similarly an FAO team recommended that the Bank finance a forest ranger
institute.
1.04     At this stage the Government also expressed interest in extending the
assistance for diversification of secondary schools started under the First
Project. But the Government did not persist in its request when the Bank took
a firm position that it was not prepared to provide additional support for
diversification, pending an evaluation of the diversified secondary schools
already financed. Subsequently, this component was deferred to the Third
Projectl/ which financed four common workshops (called science and technology
centers) shared by several adjacent secondary schools. Financing of the
vocational training center and the forest ranger institute was also deferred
to the Third Project as preparation for those two components was not
l/   The Third Project; was identified and prepared almost concurrently
and was appraised in August 1976, six months after this project.



- 2 -
sufficiently advanced. Only design work and architectural studies for these
institutions were financed under this project.
1.05     The objectives and scope of the project were further narrowed and
focussed essentially on financing of "Community Schools," (para. 1.06), and
related primary school teacher training and technical assistance for
strengthening educational planning and administration.
1.06     Community School Program.   According to the Working Papers, the
original objective of the community school program was to use the school as
the principal vehicle for community development and the teacher as a community
leader. These responsibilities entailed fundamental changes in curricula,
teaching materials and teacher training and sustained collaboration with other
Government agencies, including the Ministries of Health, Agricultural, Labor
and Youth and Sports. They also entailed preparation of new "rurally
oriented" textbooks, and teaching materials and the re-orientation of primary
teacher training to produce a new breed of teachers-cum-community leaders. To
implement the new program, additional facilities, including workshops and
laboratories had to be built, and equipment for teaching the "practical"
subjects had to be produced. These changes required major investment in
buildings, equipment, planning and program development.
1.07     Eventually, the program was scaled down "to a much more realistic
goal, more in keeping with the responsibilities of a Ministry of Education,"
-/ and the community schools were seen essentially as primary schools which
would also be used to provide literacy classes to adults. The other
Ministries (Agriculture, Health, Labor, Youth and Sports) were to deal with
"other more specialized areas of instruction to adults."   According to the
Working Papers, "even with the reduced objectives, the community schools
remain an ambitious scheme requiring considerable strengthening of
administration and central services."
1.08     At the time the Bank started project identification in 1974-75, the
Government had already built some 35 community schools, with the assistance of
UNDP/Unesco which provided experts, including an architect who developed the
basic modular design for the schools, and UNICEF which agreed to provide some
basic equipment needed for the teaching of crafts, agriculture and home
economics. This project was intended to expand coverage of these schools to
50 additional villages, including sites in Upper Lofa and Bong counties, which
were to be served by IDA-supported rural development projects.
Project Objectives
1.09     The principal objectives of the project were: (a) to assist the
Government in expanding the ongoing community school program (paras. 1.06-
1.08); (b) to strengthen the central administration and planning of the
Ministry of Education; and (c) to support the Government's efforts to
reorganize vocational training and to establish an institute for the training
1/   This and other quotes in this section are from the working papers.



of forest rangers; and (d) to strengthen the Government's capability to design
and implement projects.
1.10     To attain thest objectives, the project financed the following
components:
(a) Community School Program
(i)    Construc:tion, furnishing and equipping of 100 community school
units in 50 villages;
(ii)   Expansion and improvement of a rural teacher training
institute through the provision of civil works, technical
assistance and fellowships; and
(iii)  Specialist services, equipment and supplies to evaluate the
communilty school program.
(b) Strengthening cf the Ministry of Education
(i)    Technical assistance, fellowships, equipment and supplies to
introduce administrative reform and strengthen professional
services in curriculum development, testing, textbook
production, adult education, planning and project
administration; and a feasibility study on educational
broadcasting; and
(ii)   Minor wcorks for preparing a building for textbook production.
(c) Preparation of future projec ts
(i)    TechnicaLl assistance for vocational planning and fellowships
for training instructors for a forest ranger institute; and
(ii)   Funds for architectural studies and design work on two
training centers -- one for technicians and craftmen and the
other for forest rangers.



- 4 -
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
2.01     In accordance with Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement, direct
responsibility for execution of the project was placed under a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The Project Implementation Unit that was
established for the First Project (Cr. 305-LBR) was given the responsibility
to implement the new project. The PIU was attached to the Ministry of
Education with a full time Liberian Project Director responsible directly to
the Minister of Education.  The PIU's responsibility included: (a) general
supervision of all aspects of the project; (b) coordination of all project
activities with the relevant departments, ministries, agencies and units of
the Borrower; and (c) selection and supervision of consultants and specialists
employed for the project and the evaluation of their performance.   In
accordance with assurances given during Loan Negotiations, the PIU was staffed
by: (a) a Director whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
were acceptable to the Bank; (b) two deputy directors; (c) an architect; (d)
an accountant; (e) a procurement specialist, and (f) support staff.
2.02     The Ministry of Labor, Youth and Sports designated an official to be
coordinator for the project component under its jurisdiction (vocational
training) and the Ministry of Agriculture did the same for forestry training.
2.03     The PIU is continuing to serve the Government by managing the
implementation of the Third and Fourth Education Projects and is now fully
staffed by Liberians. The Fourth project includes components under various
ministries, and is co-financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB).
Through the experience it has gained in the implementation of the first three
education projects, and because sufficient staff have been trained through
fellowships in the various disciplines required for project implementation,
the PIU has become an important tool for the implementation of projects. The
Government has also gained through the PIU a good understanding of Bank
procedures and the preparation of the Fourth Education Project has been
facilitated through it.
2.04     The Department of Educational Facilities (DEF), which was created by
merging two small units - one in the PIU and the other in the Education
Planning Bureau - has been enlarged and integrated in the Ministry of
Education, directly under the Deputy Minister for Planning. The
responsibilities of DEF were extended to include the design and supervision of
all educational facilities to be constructed by the Ministry of Education.
The integration of the DEF into the MOE is a positive development as it
reflects the continued growth of the MOE's capability for project generation
and implementation.  The autonomy that the PIU has helped the PIU to perform
efficiently. As the PIU and DEF continue to evolve, care should be taken to
preserve a balance between the autonomy that the PIU enjoys and the trend
toward integration represented by DEF. As the division of responsibilities
and the line of reporting between the two units are sometimes blurred, some
strain is beginning to show in relations between the DEF and the PIU. While
this may be inevitable, close monitoring on the part of the highest
authorities in the Ministry of Education is needed. The Bank should stand
ready to assist the Ministry in the course of supervision of the Third and
Fourth Education Projects in helping to clarify the respective functions and



-5-
responsibilities of the two agencies.
Implementation of Hardware Components
2.05     Civil Works.  The schedule of accommodation and the net areas given
at appraisal have general:Ly been followed. The project included: (a) the
construction of one hundred primary school modular units; (b) expansion of a
teacher training institute at Zorzor; (c) upgrading and renovation of a
building for a printing p:-ess; and (d) the design and the preparation of bid
documents for a vocationaL training center (VTC) and a forestry training
institute (FTI). Ninety-two of 100 community school units representing 46 out
of 50 schools have been constructed (para. 4.02). The average gross area per
unit is 13% more than estimated at appraisal. However, because fewer units
have been built the total area constructed equals the area agreed at
appraisal. As appraised, two types of units were built. The first one, of
2,370 sq. ft., comprises one room each for crafts, home economics, office,
store and open but covered kitchen. The second unit contains three
classrooms. In light of the high rate of student drop-out in Liberia, classes
of different size (900, 550, and 415 sq. ft.) were designed and built. To
provide for an assembly hall, a movable partition separating two of the
classrooms was provided. In the absence of qualified teachers, equipment and
teaching materials, the large workshops (850 sq. ft.) could not be used as
originally intended, but are instead partitioned and being used as two smaller
classrooms of 420 sq. ft., and when needed as an assembly hall.
2.06     As agreed at Loan Negotiations, a contract for the construction of
the primary schools was negotiated with a nonprofit organization from the
United States which had successfully constructed 35 community schools for the
Government. It is estimated that agency constructed the schools at a cost of
about 30% less than private contractors. The main aim of providing well-
constructed primary schools at a reasonable cost was achieved, and the
decision to use a non-gouvermental organization as an executing agency instead
of using private contractors proved to be correct.
2.07     The Rural Primary Teacher Training Institute at Zorzor (ZRTTI) was
expanded as planned. The project was intended to finance construction,
furniture and equipment for a new 70-place hostel, three new staff houses,
renovation of two staff houses and the demonstration school, a new
agricultural workshop, improvements/extensions to teaching spaces (home
economics, arts and crafts, etc.) and improvement of water and electricity
supply. All facilities planned at appraisal except the renovation of two
staff houses were completed in July, 1978.   Instead of renovating the two
staff houses, the Government, with Bank approval, began construction of an
apartment block for staff. This facility was not completed at Project
Completion. Because of cost overruns, water and electricity supplies have not
been improved as planned. The contract for extension for ZRTTI was awarded in
1978 to a local construction firm in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines.
2.08     The intended upgrading and renovation of the printing press facility
was not carried out. Minor equipment items were procured; the bulk of the
equipment intended to be procured was deleted.
2.09     The designs of Et vocational training center, and a forestry training



- 6 -
institute were completed in accordance with schedules of accommodation
developed during project implementation.
2.10     Procurement of Equipment and Furniture.   Except for some vehicles
which were procured locally, all other equipment was procured in accordance
with the Bank's ICB guidelines. Following the Government's decision not to
print eductional materials (paras. 4.25-4.27) much of the equipment that was
ordered for the printing press was cancelled. However, some equipment was
delivered before it could be cancelled and is being used partially at the
existing print shop.
2.11     The Bank agreed that local competitive bidding procedures for the
procurement of furniture be followed. The furniture that was procured is made
of local hardwood; on the whole the design is functional and sturdy. Chairs
and desks have been designed to accommodate children of various ages. The
principal shortcoming in the design of the furniture is that the
chairs/benches are not connected to the desks. Although, this is the right
furniture design approach for health reasons, the Government has decided to
furnish primary schools in the future with a connected bench-desk unit because
(a) the furniture cannot be removed from the classrooms to either sports
fields or meetings outside the school and get lost or destroyed in the
process; (b) classrooms can be kept in a better order; and (c) comparatively
more students can be accommodated on a bench than on a chair.
2.12     Quality and Functional Suitability of the Facilities.   The standard
and quality of construction of the community schools built by the non-
govermental agency which was contracted to build the schools was is generally
good. The only construction defect of some significance concerns the use of
tar/asbestos corrugated sheets as roofing material. This material is not
suitable to Liberian conditions because of humidity and heat. Many roofs are
leaking already and Go;trrnment may have to consider reroofing many schools
withing the next few years. The outdoor but covered kitchens are being used
as extensions of classrooms; and the fireplace is not designed to accommodate
cooking large meals. As a result, many schools are using alternative cooking
areas.
2.13     The project did not include provisions to supply water.   In
retrospect, it is now clear that there should have been a provision for water.
The toilets were constructed so that sewage drops into a large concrete
container, which is supposed to be emptied regularly. This regular emptying
does not happen and as soon as the container is full, the pupils use instead
areas around the schools. Eventually, this will create a health hazard
because of the large number of children in relatively small areas. The
Government has been requested to take remedial action.
2.14     The quality of construction at ZRTTI is reasonable.   The buildings
have been designed and constructed in accordance with the functional
requirements set at appraisal.
Implementation of Software Components
2.15     An important objective of the project was to assist the Government in
developing a local capability to plan and manage its educational system. A
total of 339 manmonths of technical assistance and 590 manmonths of



- 7 -
fellowships was provided to strengthen the professional and administrative
services of the Ministry of Education and educational establishments such as
the ZRTTI (Annexes 1 and 2). The technical assistance program was fully
utilized at a cost of 15.2% above appraisal estimates. The fellowship program
had to be red,lced due to cost overrun (79% of the estimated manmonths was
utilized). The technical assistance and fellowship programs had a significant
impact in strengthening the Ministry of Education's capability in educational
planning, administration and curriculum development. This is discussed in
more detail under "Project Outcome" (paras. 4.09 - 4.29).
2.16     The technical assistance component was implemented mostly by
Unesco. Initially recruitment of technical assistance was slow. Only one
technical assistance expert assumed his post on schedule. The rest were
recruited with a delay ranging from three to 33 months.   Implementation of the
technical assistance component was 11 months late, on average. The Government
was expected to assign counterparts to each of the technical assistance staff
when they started work and would have returning fellows work with the
technical experts for a period before expiration of the latters' contracts.
The project implementation schedule thus called for the return of fellows well
in advance of the end of experts' terms. However, frequent delays in
fellowship implementation did not allow this overlap to occur.
2.17     Similarly, despite delays the fellowship program was, on the whole,
successfully implemented (Annex 2). The fellowship component was completed an
average of 33 months later, than anticipated at appraisal. Delays in awarding
fellowships ranged from e-ight months to five years.
2.18     The Government il;self undertook implementation of the fellowship
program until October 1980, when an American university was contracted to
implement the program. Inplementation was delayed largely because: (a) the
PIU, despite repeated reminders by the Bank, did not start identifying
candidates sufficiently in advance; (b) there was a shortage of qualified
candidates; and (c) Government departments were reluctant to release staff for
training. Where candidates were available, it took many months before they
could be placed in suitabhe institutions. This was partly because the Project
Unit did not have the staf'f or the experience required to process fellowships,
and was not fully acquainted with university admissions criteria and
procedures.



III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
3.01     The estimated and actual total project costs are summarized below and
detailed in Annex 3.
Table 1
Planned and Actual Expenditures by
Principal Categories
Appraisal Estimate          Final            Final as %
Incl. Contingencies      Expenditures       of Appraisal
$'000               $1000
Civil Works                 2,157.3              3,013.1             + 39.7
Furniture                     577.0                536.3             - 7.1
Equipment                     754.5                429.0             - 43.1
Consultants' Services         135.0                101.3             - 25.0
Technical Assistance
Foreign                  1,208.2              1,393.2             + 15.3
Local                      138.1                 49.7             - 64.0
Fellowships                   460.1                432.2             - 6.1
Total                    5,430.2              5,954.8             + 9.7
The above project cost of $5,954,800 exceeded the appraisal estimate by 9.7%,
excluding the contributions of $205,000 from the non-govermental agency that
constructed the schools, and $200,000 worth of paper donated by UINICEF. If
these are included, the total project cost would be $6,359,800, or 17% more
than the estimate at appraisal.
3.02     The cost overrun was partly the result of implementation delays which
added about $855,000 to the cost of civil works alone. Also contributing to
the overrun was higher than anticipated inflation and an underestimate in the
planned cost per square foot of community school construction (para. 3.07).
3.03     The final cost of civil works, including site development, was $3.01
million, 40% more than the appraisal estimate of $2.16 million. This was
despite the fact that civil works for the education publications sub-component
were not implemented as discussed in para. 4.27. The cost overrun was largely



- 9 -
due to construction delays arising from unusually long rainy seasons and a
shortage of construction materials. Eventually, 92 out of the planned 100
primary schools units were built.
3.04     The total cost of furniture was $536,300 (7.1% below appraisal
estimates). The total cost of equipment ws $429,000 (4.3% below appraisal
estimates). The cost underrun for equipment was largely due to the
Government's decision not to procure the bulk of the printing equipment.
UNICEF provided only a small portion of the equipment intended for the
teaching of arts and crafts, home economics and agriculture at the community
schools.
3.05     The actual cosl; of technical assistance was $1.44 million.  This was
15% more than estimated at appraisal. The cost overrun was due mainly to (a)
a substantial cost increase in curriculum development and testing; and (b) the
continuation of an expert in educational publications for an additional 12
manmonths, pending a government decision on printing and distribution of
textbooks.
3.06     The fellowships component cost a total of $432,200, which was 6% less
than planned, mainly because not all fellows were placed. The initial
difficulty in managing this component and the resulting delays, together with
rising costs, allowed only 33 out of the planned 47 fellowship awards to be
made. Three additionnal. persons were sent on study tours or short intensive
seminars, resulting in a total of 36 project-financed fellowships.
3.07     The facilities at Zorzor were constructed at a cost of $30 per sq.
foot, compared to an appraisal estimate of $28. The non-govermental agency
constructed the community schools at $14 per sq. foot, which was about 60% of
the prevailing commercial rate. According to the Working Papers, the
prevailing average cost per square foot of gross area of construction for
simple school buildings in 1975 was US$22, excluding contingencies.
Construction cost for the community schools was however computed at a grossly
underestimated rate of $6 per sq. foot (excluding contingencies), (SAR,
Annex 4 A.) The conctractor was able to construct the schools at lower cost
partly by stockpiling construction materials, increasing labor productivity
through training foremen, the efficient employment of its labor force and by
utilizing its own largely volunteer staff for site supervision (see para.
7.05).



- 10 -
Project Financing
3.08     The planned and actual financing for the project is broken down below
in US$ millions:
Table
Financing Plan Showing Planned and
Actual Expenditures
Bank Loan          Government            Total
Plan     Actual      Plan    Actual      Plan    Actual
Civil Works              1.29       1.47       .87      1.54      2.16      3.01
Furniture                 .41        .46       .17      0.08       .58       .54
Equipment                 .68        .39       .07       .04       .75       .43
Consultants' Services     .10        .08       .04       .02       .14       .10
Technical Assistance     1.06       1.23       .28       .21      1.34      1.44
Fellowships               .46        .37        --       .06       .46       .43
Total                  4.00       4.00      1.43      1.95      5.43      5.95
3.09     Orders for some printing equipment intended for educational
publishing was cancelled (para. 4.25). $69,828 in advance payments made to
the suppliers whose orders were cancelled was returned to the Government's
financial counsellors in the U.S. and Switzerland, under Government
instruction to reimburse the Bank. Arrangements have been made for the
Government to reimburse the Bank the advance payment of $69,828.
3.10     Disbursements under the project were made in line with the Loan
Agreement (with the exception noted in para. 3.09). The Loan was fully
disbursed in February 1983. The total loan of US$4.0 million thus financed
67% of total project costs rather than the 74% intended at appraisal. With
the Government financing the entire cost overrun, its total contribution to
the project was US$1.95 million, US$520,000 more than planned at appraisal.



- 11 -
IV. PROJECT OUTCOMES
4.01     The Project was completed largely as planned, at a cost of 9.7% above
appraisal estimates and a time overrun of 43%. Ninety-two classrooms were
built, compared to an appraisal target of 100; the major part of the
publications component was not carried out, and the evaluation of the
community school program was not completed. Project outcomes with respect to
the two principal objectives of the project, (a) expanding primary education
through a community school program, and (b) institution building
(strengthening the administration and professional services of the Ministry of
Education), are discussed below.
Community School Program
4.02     The consensus among Government officials and others who were involved
with the community school program (para. 1.04) is that the program was highly
successful in expanding primary schooL enrollment in areas that had previously
limited opportunity for primary education. Ninety-six of the 100 school units
were built; even then the appraisal target of providing 12,000 places,
including an estimated 4,000 new places was exceeded.L/ As planned, the
schools were constructed by a private, nonprofit agency, which had built 35
similar schools for the GTovernment. Community participation in clearing sites
was satisfactory, particalarly at the initial stages. The non-govermental
agency was particularly successful in training local staff in construction
trades (para. 7.04).
4.03     With regard to the broader objectives of "reorienting" primary
schools to serve rural needs, or in terms of teaching "practical" subjects, as
explained below, the project had, at best, a limited success. With the
benefit of hindsight, it is now clear that the Ministry of Education did not
have the resources to implement the community school program, even in its
scaled-down form (para. 1.07). Most of them did not have properly trained
teachers, equipment and instructional materials to teach crafts, home
economics or agriculture.. Even in the few schools with agricultural plots, a
lack of rudimentary tooL3 and essential farm inputs made it virtually
impossible to provide meaningful agricultural instruction. In the end, the
project community schools were virtually indistinguishable from regular
primary schools in terms of their program.
4.04     Primary Teacher Training.   As part of the community school program,
the project provided 144 manmonths of fellowships and 120 manmonths of
technical assistance. The technical assistance program was fully utilized,
thus substantially strengthening the institution's teaching of pedagogical
1/   The Appraisal Report does not provide the previously existing
enrollment figures for each school assisted under the project. The
figures for actual enrollment are virtually impossible to obtain even
now, because of poor record-keeping by schools, counties and the
Ministry. (Enrollment figures compiled by the Completion Mission are
shown in Annex 9.)



- 1 2 -
sciences including educational psychology, educational methods, and
mathematics, science and English. Because of cost overruns, only 49% of the
fellowships were used and three of the four fellowship recipients are still on
the Institute staff. However, the Institute has not been particularly
successful at increasing women's enrollments as planned at appraisal. In
fact, partly because of the discontinuation of a course in home economics that
was formerly funded by UNICEF and partly because the Institute raised its
admissions requirements thereby reducing the pool of potential women
candidates with the requisite qualification, the enrollment of women has
declined from an average of 54 during 1976-80 to only 18 in 1982.1/ At
appraisal, the Bank and the Government agreed to introduce a one-year (post-
Grade 9) course which was considered more appropriate to train teachers who
could carry out the new functions of the community schools (e.g., adult
education, literacy training, etc.). But that course was discontinued a
couple of years later in 1980. Instead, the college now offers a higher level
course (two years, post-secondary) which requires higher qualification for
admissions and trains not only primary but junior secondary teachers.
4.05     Notwithstanding the foregoing, it should be emphasized that largely
because of the assistance received under this project (and from other external
agencies such as USAID), Zorzor has today a well-designed (and well-
maintained) campus and a good academic program.
4.06     Adult education. As part of the community school program, the
project provided 24 manmonths of technical assistance, 100 manmonths of
fellowships and 10 vehicles to strengthen the adult education service and to
support the administration of literacy centers in each of Liberia's nine
counties. The technical assistance expert was expected to help establish the
administrative structure and methods for supervision and guidance of the
centers, prepare teaching materials, train local staff and evaluate the
programs.
4.07     On the whole, the findings of the Completion Mission confirm that
adult education has not been given sufficient attention and priority. The
literacy expert produced some texts, but they are being used only on a limited
scale as only a modest number of adults (4,500 in 1982) are participating in
literacy classes in the entire country. Only a few of the community schools
are used for adult literacy classes. Due to inadequate operating funds and a
lack of spare parts, most of the vehicles (seven out of ten) are not in
operating condition. There is a dearth of adult education supervisers (in
charge of counties) because of poor pay scales.  They are paid like school
teachers rather than as school supervisors or at least principals.  On the
positive side, four fellowship recipients occupy senior positions at the
central and county levels. (One of them is Director of Adult Education at the
Ministry of Education.)
l/   Annex 8 shows enrollment and graduates at Zorzor during 1975-80.
The figure for 1982 was provided by the Director of Zorzor to the
Completion Mission.



- 13 -
4.08     Evaluation of the Community School Program.   The project provided
funds and equipment for an evaluation of the community school program. The
Government signed a contract with a team of researchers from the University of
Liberia and Cuttington College to undertake the study. Because of delays, the
Ministry of Education, in 1981, took over the study from the research team
with the intention of completing it. It was still not finalized at the time
of project completion, although a brief preliminary report was prepared by the
research team in 1977.
Institution Building
4.09     A major objective of the project was to strengthen the administrative
and professional services of the Ministry of Education. Project outcomes in
respect to the various institution building elements financed under the
project are discussed be]ow.
4.10     Administrative Iteform.  This component was designed to address
serious weaknesses in the organization and administration of the Ministry,
which had grown rapidly ELnd in an ad hoc manner over the previous decade.
According to the Staff Appraisal Report, major problems included: (a) a
complicated organizational structure and a lack of job descriptions for
Ministry posts; (b) the Ealmost complete absence of a personnel records system;
(c) slow and inefficient procurement and delivery of educational materials;
and (d) time-consuming arid inefficient budgeting and spending procedures.
4.11     To address these problems, the project was to finance four manyears
of technical assistance to review MOE organization and procedures, two
manyears of services of an MOE staff member to assist in the review, three
manyears of fellowships to train staff in accounting and management, and ten
manmonths for training staff in procurement. The project was also to finance
vehicles and office supp]ies.
4.12     The Liberian Institute of Public Administration was to employ the
specialists and help the MOE to: (a) prepare job descriptions; (b) formulate
an improved organizational structure; (c) make an inventory of MOE staff
resources; (d) identify and train staff in improved systems of operation,
particularly in personnel. and financial matters; (e) prepare related
implementation plans, manuals and legislation; and (f) identify and prepare
other projects for administrative improvement.
4.13     Although this component achieved somewhat less than the original
objectives, it was largely successful and has had a substantial impact on
improving the organizaticn and procedures of the MOE. The MOE was completely
reorganized, job descriptions were written for most MOE posts, and an
inventory was made of MOE staff resources. In addition, the Ministry carried
out a series of in-service training sessions for senior staff (led by the
Minister in office at that time), a manual was produced on improved
procurement procedures, and a series of follow-up projects was prepared and is
being financed under the Fourth Education Project. The accountant in the PIU
received an MBA under the project and the PIU procurement specialist received
a procurement certificate, and both have become senior personnel in their
fields in the Ministry.



- 14 -
4.14     Little progress was made in the improvement of personnel and
financial matters. There were long delays in the recruitment of a personnel
specialist and the search for a candidate was finally dropped because of cost
overruns on the project.  A specialist in financial administration helped to
identify numerous issues but spent too little time in the country to help the
Government address those issues.
4.15     This component was one of the most comprehensive attempts in a Bank-
financed project in West Africa to reform and improve educational
administration and its results point to several useful lessons. First, it is
certainly possible to employ local institutions (the Liberian Institute of
Public Administration (LIPA), in this case) to assist in organizational
development. Second, institution building is a long-term process in countries
which, like Liberia, have rudimentary administrative structures and
procedures, a severe lack of qualified staff, and sensitive issues needing to
be addressed (such as personnel matters). In cases like these follow-up
projects are required to sustain the momentum for improvement and to put in
place improved procedures which can be carried out with better qualified
staff. The need for follow-up investment was recognized and this project was
intended to prepare the ground for larger investments in subsequent projects
(SAR, Para. 4.07).
4.16     Curriculum Development.   The project was designed to finance 1.5
manyears for a curriculum coordinator, 0.5 manyears for a technology syllabus
specialist, three manyears to train curriculum developers, four manyears to
train two technology teachers, and related equipment. The aims of this
component were to: (a) expedite the revision of curricula for Grades 1-12;
(b) improve the science and technology curricula in Grades 7-9; (c) train
staff in curriculum development; (d) establish procedures for long-term
curriculum development; and (e) establish methods of operating the Curriculum
Development Unit. At the time of project appraisal, work was going on in
curriculum development for grades 1-12, there were few qualified staff working
in curriculum development, and coordination of curriculum development amoung
various MOE units was difficult.
4.17     Several of the objectives of this component were met and MOE work in
curriculum development is better than it was at the time of project
appraisal. New curricula and syllabi were prepared for four subjects and five
grades. The Curriculum Development Unit is taking the lead in curriculum
development efforts. Four staff were trained in curriculum development on
project-financed fellowships; three returned to Liberia and are still working
with curriculum development and textbook writing.
4.18     On the less positive side, it took three years of specialist
assistance to undertake his work rather than 18 months, as planned. Technical
assistance staff was not recruited for the development of technology syllabi
and little progress was made in this area. Finally, despite the establishment
of the CDC, parallel efforts in curriculum development are still going on
within different parts of the Ministry.
4.19     Test Development.  The project was to finance two manyears of
services of a testing specialist, three manyears of fellowships in testing and
some related office equipment. The objectives of this component were to
assist in:  (a) devising appropriate test batteries for basic literacy and



- 15 -
primary education; (b) iriproving the Grade 9 and Grade 12 national
examinations to reflect new directions in curricula; and (c) developing test
items and analysing test results. In light of educational standards, which
needed to be raised, and curricula revisions, this component was intended to
strengthen the newly formed Testing Division and help it move toward expected
closer collaboration with the West African Examination Council.
4.20     This component dtid not meet its objectives.  Although two of the
fellowships, and an unplanned short-term fellowship were awarded, only one of
the fellows is now in the MOE. Except for some preliminary work (e.g.
evaluation of teacher training) done by the technical assistance expert during
this two-year tenure (1977-1979), the outcome in terms of developing a battery
of more reliable tests for Grades 9 and 12 did not materialized as planned at
appraisal largely because of delays in taking decision on the proposed
transfer of the Testing Department to WAEC. Subsequently, the Ministry's
examinations department was transferred to the newly formed Liberian branch of
the West African Examinat;ions Council (WAEC). Given the limited progress that
was made under the Second. Project, the low base from which these efforts
began, and the important testing which remains to be accomplished, the Fourth
Education Project is providing additional support for strengthening WAEC
testing.
4.21     Educational Planning.   The project was to finance 12 manmonths of
technical assistance for an educational planner, 12 manmonths for a planner of
technical education, and three manmonths for a feasibility study of
educational broadcasting. The project was also to finance five manyears of
fellowships to train three Liberians in educational planning. The aims of
this component were to complete the long-range educational plan, review plans
for the development of technical education, and undertake detailed planning
for all technical education courses and institutions.
4.22     This component of the project met several of its objectives and,
partly as a result, the Eureau of Planning and Development of the MOE is
considerably stronger and more competent today than at appraisal. Three
fellows were trained under the project and are working with either educational
or manpower planning. The educational broadcasting specialist produced a
report which was used as input to the preparation of an AID-financed radio
project in Liberia. The educational planning specialist spent two years in
Liberia rather than one and helped to produce Volume I of the long-range
Education Development Plan, and a draft of Volume II. Considerable planning
of technical education was carried out under an AID-financed project rather
than this one, in conjunction with work under the Third Education Project.
The counterpart to the Educational Planning specialist became an Assistant
Minister and then a Deputy Minister for Planning and Development. There are
still considerable weaknesses in educational planning, particularly concerning
the collection and management of statistical information and the linkages
between educational and manpower planning, and the Fourth Education Project
will finance additional assistance in these areas. Nonetheless, the fact that
the Educational Planning Division of the Ministry played a major role in
identifying and preparing the Fourth Education Project in detail, reflects the
considerable impact of the educational planning component of this and the
First Education Project on the overall capacity for educational planning in
Liberia.



- 16 -
4.23     Educational Publications.   The project was to provide two manyears of
specialist services, six manyears of locally hired writing specialists, six
manyears of fellowships in areas related to publishing, equipment and supplies
for equipping the MOE print shop. The aim of this component, according to the
working papers, was to provide "the means of preparing and producing printed
materials needed by the education system" and developing Liberian expertise in
these fields. In conjunction with this component, the Government, within one
year of loan signing, was to prepare and discuss with the Bank a detailed
program for textbook production for the following three-year period. In
addition, by December 31, 1976, the Government was also to make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for: (a) the operation of a replenishment fund with
assured sources of financing for renewal of printing and production supplies;
and, (b) the distribution of books.
4.24     For the most part, the project did finance what was envisaged.   A
publications specialist spent 36 manmonths in Liberia (instead of 24), and
local writers were hired.  In addition, UNICEF donated about US$200,000 worth
of paper to the Government for textbook publishing, and some printing
equipment was procured for the Ministry. Three fellowships were awarded, but
only one of the recipients returned to Liberia. The other two discontinued
their studies and have not returned. One other staff was sent abroad for a
six-months training; he has returned and resumed his work at the MOE.
4.25     On the other hand, despite the above, this component did not directly
meet the objectives that were set for it. The Government made almost no
progress in writing or printing books, or deciding when and how to do so.
Some of the equipment was given to the newly established Central Printing
Office, some is barely being used at the MOE print shop, and orders for the
rest were cancelled. The textbook specialist was unable to get the Government
to take action on his recommendations during his stay in Liberia. The UNICEF
paper is unused and being stored in poor conditions.
4.26     The main reasons why this component did not meet its objectives was
the Government's indecision on the establishment of proper printing
facilities, failure to follow through the preparation of manuscripts, general
inertia and failure to train adequate staff. There were prolonged discussions
during the project of merging the MOE print shop with the newly established
Central Printing Office; this proposal was never fully acted on and further
delayed the implementation of specific measures under this project.
4.27     Ironically, the Government's failure to implement the educational
publishing component in a timely fashion did set the basis for the
Government's finally designing a textbook program. The Government and the
Bank agreed that the Government's preparation of a primary school textbook
program in detail would be a condition for Bank financing of textbooks under
the Fourth Project. As the Second Project came to an end, the Government
adopted a policy of procuring existing textbooks. The Fourth Project is
assisting in the implementation of a textbook procurement program.
4.23     Despite the failure of the publishing component there is no doubt
that the project financed a well designed and, for the most part, well-
prepared effort at strengthening a weak ministry from top to bottom. Although
the project did not meet all of its original objectives, it did meet many of



- 17 -
them at close to their o:-iginal cost estimates.  As a result, the MOE is much
better prepared technically than it was in 1976 to carry out its work. This
is all the more significant as the Ministry had to weather a major political
upheaval in the country in 1980 which affectd project implementation to some
extent (e.g. some trainers discontinued their fellowships or failed to return
after completing their studies)



- 18 -
V. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
5.01     Project Generation.  The project was well-designed and adequately
prepared. It focussed on a sub-sector (i.e. primary education) that was given
high priority by the Government. The Bank made the right decision in
deferring the secondary school and vocational training components to the Third
Project, thereby concentrating the thrust and focus of this project on primary
education and institution building.
5.02     Supervision.  Sixteen supervision missions were carried out during
the implementation period for a total of 19.1 staffweeks. Initially,
supervision of the project was carried out concurrently with project
generation and preparation of the Third Project and supervision of the First
Project. Also, supervision was carried out initially by the staff of the
Regional Office in Abidjan, thus creating discontinuity between appraisal and
supervision personnel. In the latter part of implementation, this changed as
supervision was carried out from Headquarters and as preparation for the Third
and Fourth Projects was completed.   Also, the Bank instituted a detailed
reporting format for the PIU, which helped to compensate for the relatively
low coefficient of Bank field supervision.
5.03     During the initial period, much time was consumed by Bank supervision
missions to follow up on Unesco's recruitment of technical assistance and to
sort out the financial statements received from UNESCO. The situation
improved as the project progressed and the PIU's records were better organized
to follow up on financial and procurement matters.
5.04     The Bank's supervision was, on the whole, properly timed.   However,
the project could have benefited if more time was spent by the architect on
project sites. (For instances, Zorzor was not visited by an architect for
almost three years, from early 1979 until project completion in late 1982).
Similarly, the project could have benefited from supervision by more
educators.
5.05     The delays in the implementation of the fellowship program might have
been avoided, or at least minimized, if the Bank had insisted that the
Government secure the services of an experienced agency to assit it in placing
candidates in overseas institutions. This was eventually done later (1980)
during project implementation when the Government signed a contract with an
American university to administer the fellowship program.
5.06     Maintenance of the vehicles procured under the project could perhaps
also have been improved if the Bank had taken measures to assist in
introducing at least a basic vehicle maintenance training scheme. The lack of
proper maintenance program, along with bad roads, reckless driving, vandalism
during the disturbances of 1980, resulted in the early breakdown of all but
five of the 23 vehicles provided under the project (para. 7.08).



- 19 -
VI. COMPLIANCE WITH CONVENANTS
6.01     All Loan Agreement covenants were complied with except for the
following two covenants pertaining to textbook production and distribution
(Annex 7). Under Article IV, Section 4.04 (a) the Borrower had agreed to
prepare for Bank review within one year of signing, a three-year plan for
textbook production. Secondly, under Section 4.04 (b) the Government was
likewise committed to make satisfactory arrangements for (i) operation of a
revolving fund to finance educational printing operation and (ii) a program
for the distribution of textbooks.
6.02     However, it would be wrong to infer that the two covenants mentioned
above were entirely igncred. On the contrary, a lot of serious thinking and
discussions went on among Ministry of Education officials on the various
issues pertaining to publications and distribution of textbooks during the
preparation of the Fourth Education Project, which had a large textbook
component. This enablec. the Government to profit from the professional advice
of textbook experts who were assisting in the preparation of the Fourth
Education Project. The discussions speeded up formulation of textbook
procurement policies anc the subsequent financing of a textbook component
under the Fourth Project (para. 4.27).



- 20 -
VII. MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The principal lessons learned from implementation of this project are
summarized below under the following three headings: Institution Building,
Use of a Non-governmental Organization for project implementation, and
Provision of Motor Vehicles.
7.02     Institution Building.   This project constitutes one of the earliest
and most comprehensive attempts at institution building in a Bank-financed
project in the West Africa Region and the experience gained in implementing
these components points to several possible lessons. First, efforts such as
organizational reform require long-term assistance with follow-up projects.
Objectives, therefore, need to be clear and attainable at each stage. Second,
foreign specialists must have local counterparts and should stay long enough
to produce guides and manuals, obtain approval for their recommendations, and
help the ministry concerned start implementing improved procedures. In this
project, the time allocated for specialists in curriculum development and
educational planning was not sufficient to accomplish the objectives which
were set. Third, when the success of a venture depends on the formulation of
new policies, wherever possible it would be preferable to have the appropriate
policy decisions made before the project is launched rather than expect them
to be addressed during the implementation period. The Second Project
ultimately led to important decisions on procuring textbooks, but could have
done more to get textbooks to students if the Government had resolved policy
measures before implementation began.
7.03     Implementation of the technical assistance and fellowship components
met repeated delays and coordination problems, much of which could have been
avoided. Because of delays in implementing the fellowship component it became
impossible to overlap the tenure of the technical assistance experts with the
return of the fellowship holders from their studies, as had been intended at
appraisal. The lesson that emerges is that technical assistance and
fellowship programs financed under Bank-assisted projects should be carefully
and realistically planned. They should take full account of the availability
of qualified candidates for fellowship awards, as well as the experience of
the implementing agencies in recruiting technical assistance personnel and in
placing fellows at educational institutions efficiently.
7.04     Use a of Non-Governmental Organization.   This is one of a few
education projects where a private, non-governmental agency was entrusted with
the implementation of a major civil works project component. In selecting the
agency for this task, the Government had at least three principal
expectations. First, the Government expected that the schools would be
constructed at lower cost than would be the case with private (commercial)
contractors; second, the non-govermental agency was explicitly required to
train Liberians in basic construction skills (carpentry, masonery, etc.) as
well as in site supervision, mobilization of community support, procurement
and logistics. And third, the agency was expected to enhance community
participation. The overriding objective, however, was to construct well-
designed schools as efficiently as possible.
7.05     On the whole there is a consensus that the agency's performance in
respect to these three objectives was up to expectations. With regard to
cost, the available evidence indicates that the non-govermental agency made



- 21 -
every effort to keep overall costs as low as possible, despite sharp rises in
the costs of labor and construction materials in Liberia in the late 1970s,
and constructed the schools at about 30% below private contractors' cost.
This was achieved partly by stockpiLing construction materials (hand tools and
vehicle spare parts), increasing labor productivity through training of
foremen and efficient deployment of the labor force, and by utilizing its own
largely volunteer staff for site supervision.
7.06     In terms of training local staff, the agency's record was quite
good. The agreement with the Government stipulated that the agency would
train four Liberians, one each as a contruction foreman, junior accountant,
bookkeeper and logistics clerk. This responsibility has been undertaken
fully. In addition four skilled workers were provided with additional
training to qualify as construction foremen. Training of masons, carpenters,
painters and helpers took place at all construction sites throughout the
project. The agency's record in mobilizing and sustaining active community
participation was as good as could be expected in view of the difficulties
inherent in such an undertaking. Here again, the agency was successful in
securing community participation, especially at the initial stage of site
clearance, but such participation diminished for reasons beyond the agency's
control as construction proceeded.
7.07     The lesson that emerges from this is that where possibilities exist
for cooperating with non-governmental organizations in project implementation,
those opportunities should be exploited to the maximum.
7.08     Provision of Motor Vehicles.   As part of its objective to strengthen
the administrative and professional services of the Ministry of Education, the
project provided 22 vehicles to various departments of the Ministry of
Education and the Project Unit. The vehicles were procured during 1977-
1980. The Completion Mission found that only five of the vehicles were
operational. Thirteen had been "written off" by the PIU as beyond repair and
two more were not in good running condition, although they were considered
"repairable." Abuse, particularly during and immediately after the 1980 coup,
lack of maintenance facilities and funds and unusually bad roads were given as
the main reasons for this unusually rapid deterioration of motor vehicles, the
majority of which were four-wheel drives. An important lesson for the Bank is
that in the future, adequate provision should be made for financing local
costs for vehicle maintenance and spare parts before financing a large number
of vehicles in countries which have unusually bad roads, poor system of
vehicle maintenance and limited recurrent financing.






- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page I of 2
LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln. 1266T-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
COMPARISON OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AT APPRAISAL AND AT COMPLETION
Man-Mon ths
Category
AppraisaL      Completion     % Z        bA seJ  | Complet ion
ZRTTI
Teacher Training:
. Educ. Psychology                             24             24                    40.0          36.0
. Language Arts                                24             24                   40.0           32.1
.athematics                                  24             24                    40.0          32.3
- ScLence                                      24             24                   40.0           29.4
Adult Ed. Methods                            24             23                    40.0          21.9
TOTAL                                         120            119       99.2%       200.0         151.4
Adult Education
Adult Education                                24             24      100.0%       100.0         151.4
Administrative Reorganizat on
FPnance                                        12              6                    50.0
Procurement                                    12             12                    50.0
Pers. OTgan1zation                             24              -                   100.0
Local Organization                                             3                     -
TOTAL                                          48             24       50.0%       200.0          l0l.7
Curriculum Developoent and Testing
Coordination of Pinalication of Curr.
Development                                  18             36                    75.0          216.2
Preparation of Technology Curriculum            6              -                    30.0             -
Assistance in Establishmen'; of Expanded
Testing System                               24             24                   100.0          121.9
TOTAL                                          48             60      125.0%       205.0          338.1
Educational Publicatiocn
Assistance in Establishmen: of a
Publications Unit and Te:ctbook
Production                                   24             36      150.0%       100.0          165 5
Planning
Finalization of Long Range Development
Plan                                         12             24                    50.0          156.7
PLan for Technical Educ. D,velopment           12              -                    50.0-
TOTAL                                          24             24      100.0%       100.0          156.7
Project Ademiistration
Archatecture                                   24             24                   100.0          104.1
Management                                      6              6                    25.0           33.4
Accounting                                      -              2                      -            16.6
Project Director                                               - 
TOTAL                                          30             32      106.7Z       125.0          196 9



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln. 1266T-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
COMPARISON OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AT APPRAISAL AND AT COMPLETION
Man-months                     Cost US$ '000
Category
Appraisal
Appraisal  |  Completion        %         (base)   Completion
Future Project Preparation
Vocational Training: Assistance
in establishment of Vocational
Training Council and Center                  18              20                     75.0       112.2
Feasibility-Study: Assessment of
Feasibility of Educational
Broadcasting (Radio Programming)              3               3                     15.0        17.2
TOTAL                                          21             23         91.3%        90.0       129.4
TOTAL  (Base)                                 339            342        100.8%     1,120.0     1,393.1
TOTAL (including contingencies)                                                    1,208.0
Pourcentage                                                              15.2% (cost overrun)
0
N) 



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
p. I ot 2
LIBERIA - SE.COND EDUCATIOF PROJECT (Ln. 1266T-!.BR)
COMPLETION RiEPORT
COMPARISON OF FELLOWSHIPS AT APPRAISAL AND AT COMPLETIOI.
Man-months                     Cost US$ '000
Category
Appraisal    Completion      %        Appraisal    Completion
(base)
ZRTTI
Teacher Training Methods                       12            12                      9.6          11.0
Teacher Training Methods                       12            12                      9.6          11.8
Teacher Training Methods                       12            12                      9.6          10.8
Teacher Training Methods                       12            12                      9.6          11.8
Teacher Training Methods                       24            23                      9.6          18.5
Teacher Training Methods                       24             0                      9.6           0
Teacher Training Methods                       24             0                      9.6           0
Teacher Training Methods                       12             0                      9.6           0
Teacher Training Methods                        6             0                      9.6           0
Teacher Training Methods                        6             0                      9.6           0
TOTAL                                         144            71        49.3%        96.0         63.9
Adult Education
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             9                      6.0           6.2
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             9                      6.0           6.3
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             9                      6.0           6.2
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             9                      6.0           6.2
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             1                      6.0           2.9
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             2                      6.0           7.0
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             1                      6.0          4.0
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             1                      6.0           4.0
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             0                      6.0            -
Adult Educ. Techniques and Supervision         10             0                      6.0           _
TOTAL                                         100           41         41.0%        60.0         42.8
Administration Reorganization
Accounting                                     24            15                     26.0          16.1
Accounting                                     12           15                                     7.0
Procurement                                     5            9                       7.0          5.8
Procurement/Acctg.                              5           24                       7.0         27.8
- Study Tour                                    -            1                        -           7.7
- Study Tour                                    -            1                                    5.9
- Diploma                                      _             1                        -           2.0
TOTAL                                          46           66        143.5%        40.0         72.3
Curriculum Development and Testing
Applied Science (Technology)                   24           39                      16.0         34.2
Applied Science (Technology)                   24           23                      16.0         27.8
Curriculum Development Technology              12           16                       8.0         11.1
Curriculum Development Technology              12           15                       8.0         11.9
Curriculum Development Technology              12           15                       8.0         11.7
Ed. Testing and Measurement                    12           16                       8.0         13.0
Ed. Testing and Measurement                    12           16                       8.0          9.4
Ed. Testing and Measurement                    12            0          _            9.2           _
TOTAL                                         120          140        116.7%        80.0         119.1



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
p. 2 of 2
LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln. 1266T-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
COMPARISON OF FELLOWSHIPS AT APPRAISAL AND AT COMPLETION
Man-monts                        Agraisal
Category                                             at -
Appraisal     Completion        %                   Coupletion
Educational Publications
General Editing                              12            2L                       8.0          11.6
Art Editing                                  12            12                       8.0           6.6
Art Editing                                  24            24                      16.0          18.2
Typesetting                                   3.5           0                                      -
Typesetting                                   3.5           0                                      -
Maintenance                                   3             0
Maintenance                                   3             0                      28.0            -
Photography                                   3             0                                      _
Photography                                   3             0                                      -
Production Management                         5             6                                     4.0
TOTAL                                        72            63         88.0%        60.0          40.4
Planning
Educational Planning                         24            24                      16.0          14.7
Educational Planning                         24            24                      16.0          24.1
Educational Planning                         12            11                       8.0          27.8
TOTAL                                        60            59         98.3%        40.0          66.6
Future Project Preparation
Forest Ranger Training                       24            24                      16.C          18.6
Forest Ranger Training                       24             2                      16.0           8.5
TOTAL                                        48            26         54.1%        32.0          27.1
TOTAL (Base)                               590            466         79.02       408.0        432.2
TOTAL (including Contingencies)                                                   460.0
Pourcentage                                                            6.0% (cost underrun)



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln. 1266T-LBR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actual Costs of Project Components in US$'OOO
Civil Worka &                Furniture &          Technical Assistance
Project Item                Professional Fees            Equipment                                                Fellowships              TOTAL
Appr.    Actual  %dif.    Appr.   Actual   %dif.   Appr.    Actual    %dif.        Appr.    Actual   %dif.     Appr.    Actual   %dif.
cont.                     cont.                    cont.                           cont.                       cont.
COMMUNITY
SCHOOL PROGRAM:
- Primary Schools           1744.9   2696.2   55       521.8   525.2     1      -         _        _            _         _       _        2266.7   3221.4   42.1
- Z.R.T.T.I.                 391.0    343.2  (12)      139.3    8U.9   (42)     L1 ).    i5iffUd                iU8.2     63.9   (4U.       8i4.,    S..S    2,.;
- Adult Education             -       -       -         79.5    69.1   (13)     107.9    151.4    40             67.7    42.8     (37)      255.1    263.3    3.2
- Evaluation                  -        -      -         24.8    18.1   (27)      23.8      7.6    (68)          _-                -          48.6     25.7  (47.1)
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION:
- Adm. Reorganization         -        -      -         44.7    24.6   (45)     234.9    130.7    (44)           45.1    72.3      60       324.7    227.6  (29.9)
- Curr. Dev. & Testing        -        -      -         15.9    18.5    16      259.2    368.2    42             90.2    119.1     32       365.3    505.8   38.5
- Ed. Pub. & Planning         50.3     -      -        443.9   195.4   (56)     289.0    322.0     11           112.8    107.0     (5)      896.0    624.4  (30.3)
- Project Administration      -        -      -         61.6    33.5   (46)     134.8    199.0    48            -         -       -         196.4    232.5   18.4
FUTURE PROJECT
PREPARATION:
- Vocational Training         86.8     75.0  (14)        -       -      -        80.9    112.2    39            -         -        -        167.7    187.2    11.6
- Forest Ranger Training      19.3     -           -         -      -       -        -              -             36.1   27.1     (25)       55.4     27.1   (51.1)
TOTAL                     2292.3  3114.4    35.9    1331.5   965.3  (27.5)   1346.3   1442.9     7.2          460.1  432.2     (6.1)    5430.2  5954.8      9.7
t,1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.



- 28 -                           ANNEX 4
LIBERTA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln. 1266T-LBR)
COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursement (US $)
Actual as % of
Appr. Est. or
Year Qtr.             Appraisal                Actual                   Total Loan
1976  III                95,000                   34,516                     36
IV               370,000                   40,069                     11
1977    I               756,000                  323,496                     43
II             1,329,000                  464,479                     35
III             1,845,000                  610,698                     33
IV             2,401,000                1,037,109                     43
1978    I             2,785,000                1,128,895                     41
II             3,110,000                1,2&0,998                     41
III             3,450,000                1,530,789                     44
IV             3,649,000                1,689,873                     46
1979    I             3,865,000                1,819,513                     47
II             3,976,000                1,972,698                     50
III             4,000,000                2,346,487                     59
IV                                      2,435,267                     61
1980    I                                      2,571,179                     64
II                                      2,836,180                     71
III                                      2,836,180                     71
IV                                      3,084,615                     77
1981    I                                      3,213,382                     80
II                                      3,309,274                     83
III                                      3,368,269                     84
IV                                      3,622,883                     91
1982    I                                      3,766,390                     94
11                                      3,870,061                     97
III                                      3,965,210                     99
IV                                      3,965,210                     99
1983    I                                      4,000,000                    100



LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln 1266T-LBR)
US$ '000                                                PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
4,000                  -                                f DDI   URSE ENt  SCHEDULE
.   , .  Disbursement: Appraisal
3,500                                      , -  */ DiL bursement: Actual
3,500.                                                              _   _                                ..
___._._,__
.'                 I I               -p
3,000                                         .                       I               - -
2,500                                     .
2,00  |  -,  elay in Civil Works Completibn
2,000                                    */'ea                                     ii
0  eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.'               //
1,5(JO                                            /
.             /
*           /', 
1,000
500                      .      ,         
1 97( .        1 97 7         1 97F         1979           1 9t0         1 9n1          19832         1 9`33
F'- 77   /7F                                                               -       =        1
* - v PLANNED DISBURSEMENT AT APPRAISAL
'-- ~ -ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS



- 30 -
ANNEX 6
LIBERIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Ln. 1266T- LBR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Planned and Actual Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Principal Category
Loan Agreement    Actual            Actual as % of
Category                        Allocation       Disbursements     Loan Allocation
I.  Civil works              980,000          1,472,638         + 50.3
II. .Furniture                320,000            458,784           43.3
II.  Equipment                550,000            390,640         - 29.0
IV.  Consultants Services      90,000             76,020         - 15.5
V.  Technical Assistance     950,000          1,232,431         i 29.7
VII.  Fellowships              410,000            369,487         -  9.9
VIII.  Unallocated              700,000               _
Cancelled                   _
TOTAL DISBURSED               4,000,000          4,000,000          100.00



- 31 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
LIBERTA - Ltoan 1266T-LBR
Second Education Project ComDletion
Co,pliance with Loan Agreement Covenent
Section No of
Loan Agreement                  Covenant            Status1/              Comments
2.02 (a)              The amount of the loan to         M       Schedule 1 was amended in
be withdrawn in accordance                June 1981 to enable full
with tho provision of                     disbursement of the loan.
Schedult 1.
2.03                  Banks p;ocurement guidelines      M
to be acLhered to.
3.01 (b)              Borrower to maintain PIU          M
until closing date.
3.01 (c)              PIU to be composed, inter         M       PIU was composed of all of
alia of Project Director,                 those named, except a Project
two Deputy Directors,                     Architect who was serving the
Project Architect, Project                PIU, with Bank approval, from
Accountant and procurement                the Department of Educational
specialist.                               Facilities.
3.01 (e)             PIU to be provided with            M
qualified supporting staff,
facilities and other resour-
ces.
3.-01 (f)            Borrower to designate liai-        M
son officers in Departmnents
and Ministrie3 concerned.
3.02 (a)              Borrower to employ and ar-        M
chitect to design and
supervise the construction
of the ;rimary school units.
3.02 (b)              Borrower to employ an archi-      M
tect for- the design and
supervison of the construc-
tion of the new buildings
at the ZRTTI.
3.03 (a)              Borrower to employ specia-        M
list whose qualifications
are acceptable to the Bank.
I/  Covenant States:  M = met          N = not met



-32 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Section No of
Loan Agreement                  Covenant            Statusl/              Comments
3.03 (b)             Government to award fellow-        M
ships only to suitable qua-
lified persons and enroll
them in training programs
approved by the Bank.
3.03 (c)             Borrower to require fellows        M
to spend 2 years in positions
for which they were trained.
3.04                 Borrower to cause Liberian         M      LIPA has provided services of
Institute of Public Adminis-              coordinator, financial specia-
tration to provide MOE with               list and procurement specialist;
services to study MOE struc-              and provided final report to
tures, procedures and                     MOE.
methods.
3.05 (a)             Primary schools units to be        M       CARE constructed all but 6
constructed in accordance                 primary school units.
with conditibns acceptable to
the Bank.
3.05 (b)             Borrower to cause community        X      This has been done in a much
school contractor Lo train                more limited way then origi-
suitable parsonnel in the                 nally planned.
managemeni of oonstruction
of primary school units.
Borrower to acquire all           M
sites.
4.02                 Borrower to maintain re-           M      The project accounts were
cords in accordance with                  maintained adequately.
sound accounting practices.
4.03                 Borrower to cause effective        M
utilization of the facili-
ties.
4.04 (a)             Borrower to prepare within         N      The plan is now being
one year of signing a three               implemented as part of the
year plan for textbook                    fourth education project
productior..
4.04 (b)             Borrower, by Dec. 21, 1976         N      These matters are being addres-
to make satisfactory arran-               sed under the Fourth Education
gements for: (a) operation                Project.
of a replenishment fund to
finance educational printing
operations; (b) a progrem for
the distribution of textbook3.



- 33 -
ANNEX 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Second Educaticn Prc,ject (Lnr..1266-LBR)
Enrollnent an.d 7raduates cf
Zcrzor Teacher Trainir Institute
1963-1980
ENROLLMENTS                         GRADUATES
YEAR               M        F    TOTAL                       F           TOTAL
1963             71         4      75            51          1           52
1964             94         7     101            12          1            13
1965            138         3     141            51          4           55
1966            166        10     176             32         -            32
1967            216        22     238             29         1            30
1968            181        26     207            50          4           54
1969            183        29     212            48          8           56
1970            197        29     226            80         13           93
1971            195        29     235            83         23          106
1972            280        60     240           109         11          120
1973            133        47     180            38          3           41
L974             238       46     284            60         21           81
1975            268        56     324           138         12          150
1976            255        62     317           151         32          183
1977            251        51     302           187         18          205
1978            260       65      325           154         29          183
1979            253        53     306           197         29          226
1980             213       40     253           n.a        n.a
TOTALS          3472      650    4142          1470        210         1682



- 34 -
ANNEX 9
LIBERIA
Second Education Project (Ln. 1266T-LBR)
Completion Report
ENROLLMENT AND NUMBER OF TEACHERS IN COMMUNITY SCHOOLS*
1981
Location/Name                No. of Students               No. of Teachers
BASSA
Owensgrove                      143                             4
Compound 1                      116                             6
Edina                            70                           N/A
BONG
Gbarnga Sharquelleh             N/A
Sanoyea                         752                            12
Frelelah                        441                           N/A
Yanniquelleh                    249                             5
CAPE MOUNT
Bendu                           104                             6
Damballa                         95                             6
Jundu                            96                             3
Vonzua                          161                             6
Weillon                         159                             4
MONTSERRADO
Dolotown                        465                            13
Peterstown                      N/A                           N/A
Bondiway                        440                           N/A
LOFA
Lawalzu                         428                             8
Sucromu                         140                             4
Luyena                          160                             3
Solumba                         195                             5
Zawadanai                       326                             7
Kpakamai                         44                             2
Gbarna                          199                             9
David Selnata                   150                             4
Foya Kamara                     279                             7
Fisseby                         982                            26
NIMBA
Kpaytuo                         227                             4
Flumpa                          443                             9
Gipo                            385                             2
Gbanquoi                        217                             1
Duo                             274                             6
Kpairplay                       219                             3
Garplay                         260                             3
Behplay                         229                             2
Zuluyee                         165                             4
Gbeelin                         367                            10
Sarkimpa                        200                             5
Menlah                          122                             1
Zahn Zayee                       91                             2
Ziekepa                         294                            12
Boumpa                          N/A                           N/A
Vayanglay                       N/A                           N/A
Karnuiee                        N/A                           N/A
Kahnboyee                       N/A                           N/A
Incomplete list.



Annex 10
LIBERIA - Second Education Project - Ln. 1266T-LBR
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FY        7(,  |  7 7     78        79      80       81       82       83
Calendar         76       77      78        79      80        81      82       83
Quarters = _LLL         TEI               1            T         E       T 111EI
CIVIL WORKS
Community Schools           A  I
I =       _________Ss-S*                    -          |*
ZRTTI                       A  -                                            -        ______
_ __                           I              .._                 -.          .. _    __
FURNITREI
Community Schools           A
I                      -        -        -        -        m 
ZRTTI                      -A
EQUIPMENT                                  I
Community Schools           A _
ZRTTI                       A
F ARCHITECTURAL WORK FOR         A                    _          _      _ _     .___
FUTURE PROJECTS             I
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ZRTTI                       A                   _I_                  _           _ _
l~~                            ~   ~~ ,__  l _             _   __
Adult Education             A I       _                                        -
I ___                   _____
Curriculum Development A         |                 m
Testing                     I   _       _        _
Publication                 A                                     _ -                               _
Planning                   II          ,   _   .__                          ___I               _
Project Administration      A _ 
Vocational Training
FELLOWSHIPS                                        _                    -        -        -      __
|  ZRTTI                      |A                                                   l   u    
Adult Education             A                   _
Administration              I |         _                       -                    ____
Curriculum Development      A
Testing                     I        I I_       I
Ed. Publication             A |
Planning                    A          ,
Forestry                    A |
s3     Pre- contract         A:  Appraisal
Post- contract       I:   Implementation



