CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1266 T-LBR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERN!1'IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 7, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window (hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which this Loan is
one; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force 6aid effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the term "PIU" means the
Project Implementation Unit established in the Ministry of Educa-
tion of the Borrower pursuant to Development Credit Agreement
No. 305-LBR (Education Project), dated May 17, 1972, between the
Borrower and International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Association).


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the Drovisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any time
determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient
to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest
payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to oe paid by the
Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in para-
graph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
upon notification by the Administrator of such determination and
the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on
such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shell repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, en-
gineering and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of overall management and coordination
of execution of the Project, the Borrower shall, until the Closing
Date, maintain PIU within its Ministry of Education.
(c) The staff of PIU shall be composed, inter alia, of: (i)
a Project Director whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; (ii)
two Deputy Project Directors; (iii) a Project Architect; (iv) a
Project Accountant; and (v) a Project Procurement Specialist.
(d) Without any restriction or limitation upon the powers
and duties of the Project Director pursuant to Development Credit
Agreement No. 305-LBR (Education Project), dated May 17, 1972,
between the Borrower and the Association, the Project Director
shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) the general supervision of all aspects of the
execution of the Project;


﻿-6-
(ii) the coordination of all Project activities with the
relevant departments, ministries, agencies and units
of the Borrower;
(iii) the arrangement for the selection and the supervision
of consultants and specialists employed for the Proj-
ect and the evaluation of their performance; and
(iv) the arrangement for the collection and preparation
of data for an evaluation of the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall provide PIU at all times with such
qualified and experienced supporting staff, facilities and other
resources as shall be necessary for the efficient operation thereof.
(f) For the purpose of effective execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall designate a senior officer in each of its
Departments, Ministries and Agencies affected by or concerned
with the Project or any part thereof to provide liaison with the
Project Director.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the de-
sign and supervision of the construction of the primary school
units included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
an architect whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the design and super-
vision of the construction of the new buildings at the Zorzor


﻿-7-
Rural Teacher Training Institute included in Part A of the Project,
and in the architectural studies and design work included in Part D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) employ, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, speci-
alists whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank;
(b) require all fellowship recipients under Part B of the
Project to serve at least two years in positions for which they
have been trained, and provide appropriate budget and positions
for such purpose; and
(c) award fellowships under Part B of the Project only to
suitably qualified persons and enroll them in training programs
approved by the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the review
and strengthening of the structure, organization, procedures and
methods of operation of its Ministry of Education, the Borrower
shall cause its Institute of Public Administration to provide the
said Ministry with services and assistance in accordance with
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.05. (a) The primary school units included in Part A
of the Project shall be constructed in accordance with the archi-
tectural designs and drawings satisfactory to the Bank. by a
contractor or zcontractors approved by the Bank upon terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall make arrangements with the aforementioned contractor or con-
tractors for the training of suitable personnel in the management
of the construction of primary school units.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports
(including the reports of the consultants and specialists financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan), contract documents, construction
and procurement schedules, work schedule for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such de-
tail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 9 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Baik, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 11 -
and (ii) any lien, arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the accotunt or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the effective utiliza-
tion, operation, maintenance and repair of the educational facil-
ities included in the Project and of the equipment thereof and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
(including staffing) and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. (a) Not later than one year after the date of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare, and review with the
Bank, a plan for the production of textbooks for the succeeding
three-year period.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Not later than December 31, 1976, or such other date as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the: (i) opera-
tion of a replenishment fund with assured sources of financing for
renewal of printing and production supplies and equipment; and
(ii) distribution of textbooks.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank
on a schedule to strengthen its forest administration, including
institutional improvements, and related training of forest rangers.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that a default shall have occurred
in the performance of any obligation on the part of the Borrower
under Development Credit Agreement No. 305-LBR (Education Project),
dated May 17, 1972, between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of September 2, 19T6 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿..- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Education of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Education
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:
Ministry of Education
Monrovia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By /s/ George Cooper
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 980,000           45%
(2) Furniture                    320,000
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) locally                                 80%
procured
(3) Equipment                   550,000
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) locally                                 75%
procured
(4) Consultants' Ser-            90,000          70%
vices
(5) Technica4 Assis-            950,000          80%
tance


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Fellowships                  410,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                  700,000
TOTAL      4,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of tie Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph L above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may
be made in respect of: (i) Category (4) on account of payments made
after April 1, 1976, for consultants services engaged under Parts
A (2) and D of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $10,000; (ii) Category (5) on account of payments
made after January 1, 1976, for the services of the architectural


﻿- 20 -
advisor employed under Part A (1) of the Project in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivs.lent of $30,000; and (iii) Category
(5) on account of payments made after March 1, 1976, for spec-
ialists services engaged under Part B (vocational training) of the
Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$20,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the


﻿- 21 -
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Part3:
Part A:
(1) The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of about
100 primary school units in about 50 villages in the Coun-
ties of Bong, Lofa, Cape Mount, Grand Bassa, Montserrado
and Nimba.
(2) Improvement and expansion of a primary teacher training
institute at Zorzor.
(3) Minor works for the improvement of facilities at the
publications unit.
Part B:
A program to provide a total of about 42 man-years of special-
ists services and about 49 man-years of fellowships for
teacher training, adult education, administrative improvement,
curriculum development, educational testing, educational
publications, educational and vocational planning, project
management, a feasibility study on educational broadcasting
and the training of forest rangers.


﻿- 23 -
Part C:
A program to provide vehicles, equipment and supplies for
adult education, central administration, evaluation of the
community schools program, curriculum development, education-
al testing, textbook production and project administration.
Part D,
A program to provide funds for architectural studies and
design work for a new vocational training center and a new
forest ranger training center.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1979.


﻿- 2)4 -I
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Educational Institutions
Approximate
Refertnce                                                         Approximate    Number of
undcr                                                               Gross         Student
Part A                                                            Area of New     Places      Estim
of the                                                            Construction     to be      Addit
Project              Location                              Unitt  (oquare feet)  Provided     Enrol
(1)    (a) Lofa County - Mondicorn.x*, Foya Kvmwrn+,
Zawodamai", Invalamo+, Salbata**, Luyemn*,
Fir'sebul, SucromuM*                             15      33,750        1,800          5
(b) Bong County -Garnue**, Gburriga Sharquellch*",
Yanvquellloh*, Sanoyea+, Prulolih+               12      27,000        1,440         W4
(c) Mimba County - lho+, Zanbogeo*, Zahnzayee+,
Ziatown**, Dourpa*, ZickOpa+, lMeCnlah*,
Gbanquoi , Kpaytuo+, Krwe3, Oblah+,
Fjuv;pa+, Gipo", Gbediijx, ZuluGcee" ,
Sarkimpa+, Kpairplay)-, Vayanglay**, 1ohplay**,
Garplayll*  Unn.located+                          47     105,750        5,640        2,14
(d) Cape Mount Cointy - Junfu", Bendu*, Voniua*,
Weilor**, Dtmballa"       1                        8      1.8,000         960          1
(e) Montserrado County - Dolostown+, Peterstown+,
Bondi-way**                                       11      24,750        1,320          2
Cf) Grand Bnsa County - Owenrgrovc+;
Compound No. 1*, Edina +                           7     15,750           840          2
Total         100     225,000        12,000       4,0
* one unit
* two units
+ three or more units
Approximate
Gross AYea
of new      Additional Additional
Construction   Student     Student     Statf
(square feet)   Places     Boarding    Hous,
(2) Zorzor Rural Teacher Training, Institute,                12,645         70           70       3 ne%
Fissebu                                                                                       2 rer


﻿- 25 -
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Specialist Services and Fellowships
A.   Technical Assistance
1.   Community Schools Program
(a) 10 man-years for five specialists to train teachers in
Educational Psychology, Language Arts, Mathematics, Science and
Adult Education Methods; and
(b) 2 man-years for one specialist to assist in developing
the adult education program of the Ministry of Education.
2.   Strengthening of Central Administrative Services
(a) 4 man-years for specialists for the Institute of &ublic
Administration to a3sist the Ministry of Education in reform of
overall administrative structure procedures, organization and methods;
(b) 2 man-years for two specialists to coordinate and finalize
revision of curricula and prepare a technology syllabus;
(c) 2 man-years for one specialist in Educational Testing and
Measurement to assist the Ministry of Education in expanding and
improving its system of testing;


﻿- 26 -
(d) 2 man-years for one specialist in Educational Publications
to assist the Ministry of Education in establishing a publications
unit and textbook production;
(e) 1 man-year for one specialist in educational planning to
finalize the long range educational development plan of the Ministry
of Education;
(f) 1 man-year for one specialist in technical education to
plan for the development of technical education in the Ministry of
Education;
(g) 2 man-years for one specialist in educational architecture
for the Educational Facilities Office of the Ministry of Education
to provide architectural services for the community schools program
and architectural planning services to the Ministry; and
(h) 6 man-months for one specialist in project administration
to act as Deputy Project Director.
3.   Preparatory Work on Future Projects
(a) One and one-half (1-1/2) man-years for one specialist
in vocational planning to assist the Ministries of Planning and
Economic Affairs and Labor, Youth and Sports in establishing a
Vocational Training Center and a National Council on Vocational
Training.
(b) 3 man-months for one specialist to assist the Ministry
of Education in assessing the feasibility of educational broad-
casting.


﻿- 27 -
B.   Other Specialist Services
1.   Research/Evaluation
30 man-months for about six specialists to assist in carrying
out research/evaluation of the community schools program.
2.   Administrative Reform
2 man-years for one person to assist the Institute of Public
Administration in its review of the administration of Education.
3.   Syllabus Writing
4 man-years for about four specialists to finalize syllabi.
4.   Textbook Preparation
6 man-years for about six specialists to write textbooks.
C.   Fellowships
1.   Community Schools Program
(a) 12 man-years for training ten persons to serve as teacher
trainers on the staff of Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute;
and
(b) 10 man-years for training ten persons in adult education
techniques and supervision to serve in the Adult Education Division
of the Ministry of Education.


﻿- 28 -
2.   Strengthening of Central Administrative Services
(a) 3 man-years for two persons to be trained as Accountants
to serve in the Ministry of Education (one of whom will serve in the
Project Implementation Unit);
(b) 10 man-months for two persons to be trained in procure-
ment to serve in the Ministry of Education (one of whom will serve
in the Project Implementation Unit);
(c) 4 man-years for two persons to be trained in the teaching
of applied science (technology) particularly at lower secondary
level;
(d) 3 man-years for three persons to be trained in curriculum
development techniques to serve in the Curriculum Development Unit
of the Ministry of Education;
(e) 3 man-years for three persons to be trained in Educational
Testing and Measurement (including one in technical education test-
ing and measurement) to serve in the Educational Testing Division
of the Ministry of Education;
(f) 6 man-years for approximately ten persons to be trained
for the Educational Publications Unit in the fields of General
Editing (1 man-year for one person), Art Editing (3 man-years for
two persons), Maintenance of Equipment (6 man-months for two per-
sons), Photography (6 man-months for two persons) and Production
Management (5 man-months for one person); and


﻿- 29 -
(g) 5 man-years for three persons to be trained in educational
planning to serve in the Planning Bureau of the Ministry of Education.
3.   Preparation for Future Projects
4 man-years for two persons to be trained in the training of
forest rangers.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1983                                  70,000
July 15, 1983                                     70,000
January 15, 1984                                   75,000
July 15, 1984                                      75,000
January 15, 1985                                   75,000
July 15, 1985                                      80,000
January 15, 1986                                   80,000
July 15, 1986                                      85,000
January 15, 1987                                   85,000
July 15, 1987                                      85,000
January 15, 1988                                  90,000
July 15, 1988                                     90,000
January 15, 1989                                   90,000
July 15, 1989                                      95,000
January 15, 1990                                   95,000
July 15, 1990                                     100,000
January 15, 1991                                  100,000
July 15, 1991                                     105,000
January 15, 1992                                  105,000
July 15, 1992                                    105,000
January 15, 1993                                  110,000
July 15, 1993                                     110,000
January 15, 1994                                  1 5,0-
July 15, 1994                                    115,000
January 15, 1995                                  120,000
July 15, 1995                                     125,000
January 15, 1996                                 125,000
July 15, 1996                                     130,000
January 15, 1997                                 130,000
July 15, 1997                                     135,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1998                                 135,000
July 15, 1998                                     140,000
January 15, 1999                                  145,000
July 15, 1999                                    145,000
January 15, 2000                                  150,000
July 15, 2000                                     155,000
January 15, 2001                                  16o,ooo
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 32 -*
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                        1%
before maturity
More than three years but not                2-1/4%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not more                  4%
than eleven years before
maturity
More than eleven years but not               5-1/2%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not              7-1/4%
more than twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one years but not               8%
more than twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three years                 8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for the renovation of two staff houses at the
Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute and minor works for the
adaptation and air-conditioning of the publications unit shall be
undertaken respectively by the staff of the said Teacher Training
Institute and the Ministry of Public Works by force account.
2.   The primary school units under Part A of the Project shall be
constructed by a contractor or contractors approved by the Bank
upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items which cannot
be grouped in packages of at least $50,000 equivalent each or
which are not suitable for international competitive bidding may
be procured on the basis of quotations in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-34 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Liberia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Liberia
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added


﻿- 35 -
in Liberia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid pr4ce of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Liberia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 36 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
With respect to all contracts for civil works, furniture and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 o-. more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrowei shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿-37 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


