Report No. PID8624
Project Name                     Mozambique-Roads and Bridges Management and (@)
Maintenance Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport-Highways
Project                          MZPE1785
Borrowers                        Government of Mozambique
Implementing agency              Ministry of Public Works and Housing
through the
autonomous Administra6ao Nacional de
Estradas (ANE)
Address Maputo, Mozambique
Contact person: Mr. Carlos Fragoso,
Chairman
Tel: 258-1-475157
Fax: 258-1- 475533
E-mail: Pcaane@Teledata.Mz (Carlos Fragoso)
Environmental Category           A (Full assessment)
Date PID prepared                February 27, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           March 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 21, 2001
1.      Country and sector background
Mozambique's road network-comprising some 28,000 kilometers of paved, earth
and gravel roads (with paved roads accounting for about 5,000 kilometers of
the network)-was badly damaged or neglected during the country's 17 years of
civil conflict. During the conflict, the ability of the National Directorate
of Roads and Bridges (DNEP) to maintain roads was severely hampered by
security concerns. However, other factors also contributed to DNEP's poor
performance, notably the severe shortage of funds for maintenance, lack of
institutional capacity to manage the network, and inefficient operational
policies and procedures. At the time the peace agreements were signed in
1992, it was estimated that less than 10 percent of the network was in good
condition and more than one-third of roads were in such poor condition they
were not passable on a regular basis. The feeder roads (16,000 kilometers of
low traffic tertiary roads) were in particularly poor condition, with many
being impassable. The poor condition of roads contributed to high vehicle
operating costs, and consequently low traffic volumes, posing major
constraints to the marketing of farm produce and to economic growth generally.
Although management of the road network has improved since the IDA-supported
Second Roads and Coastal Shipping project was appraised, institutional and
policy reforms are not yet complete. The government now plans to implement
institutional reforms over the next year or so. They include separating the
funding and planning functions that are currently undertaken by ANE
directorates; establishing the Road Fund as an autonomous legal entity,
governed by a representative board of directors (including representatives



from the private sector) and managed by a professional administration;
ensuring that revenues intended for road maintenance flow fully and directly
into the Road Fund; and strengthening capacity of subnational governments to
undertake road works. These actions will create greater transparency, improve
financial management, establish a clearer allocation of responsibilities in
road management, and guarantee the steady and regular flow of funds for roads
maintenance.
The main sector issues to be addressed in the future can be summarized as
follows:
- Improving the coverage and condition of the roads network
- Connecting agriculturally productive areas to the rest of the country
through improvements in the road network
- Strengthening capacity to manage road sector activities, effectively,
sustainably and transparently, at central and local levels
- Ensuring the sufficient, timely and stable flow of funds for roads
maintenance, and establishing policies and processes for reviewing and
adjusting funding sources for road maintenance
- Involving road users in setting road priorities and in monitoring and
evaluation of the roads program
- Decentralizing responsibilities to the regional institutions best able to
bear them, and ensuring the accountability and transparency of these
institutions
- Fostering the development of the national road construction industry, and
finding the appropriate balance between the public and private sectors in
the roads sector
- Improving roads safety
- Reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS that is associated with improved road
networks.
2.      Project objectives
The overall purpose of the proposed program is to stimulate economic growth
and contribute to poverty reduction through improved road infrastructure,
better sector policies, and enhanced roads sector management. Improved road
transportation helps generate growth and reduce poverty by lowering
transportation costs and stimulating development of markets. This encourages
farmers to increase production and provides them with opportunities to do so
by making it easier to obtain inputs and sell outputs. Improved road
transportation also makes it simpler for people to go to school, visit health
facilities and travel to jobs in nonagricultural sectors. In the case of
Mozambique, road improvements bring about social equity and political unity by
helping to integrate the poor and other vulnerable groups into the society.
They also place the country in a critical strategic role as the transport
provider for neighboring landlocked countries, while opening external markets
for trade.
The specific project objectives are to (a) improve the coverage and condition
of roads and bridges; (b) strengthen the country's capacity to manage and
administer the road sector effectively and transparently, with sustainable and
efficient institutional arrangements; (c) establish financing mechanisms to
ensure sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds for roads
maintenance; and (d) improve road transport safety. Secondary objectives are
to improve human capabilities by incorporating HIV/AIDS prevention activities
- 2-



in program activities and by increasing female employment in road sector.
3.      Rationale for Bank involvement
IDA has been actively involved in the transport and road sectors in Mozambique
since 1992. The First and Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects (ROCS1
and ROCS2, approved in 1992 and 1994 respectively) were intended to be the
first in a series of projects designed to rehabilitate and strengthen the
country's road and shipping infrastructure.
IDA currently has a highly supportive and productive working relationship with
the government on these matters. Continued IDA involvement with developing a
roads management and maintenance system will help guarantee a focus on
reducing poverty by bringing its rich experience in this area to Mozambique.
It will also help ensure institutional and financial sustainability of roads
management by helping to define and implement efficient, effective and
sustainable policy frameworks, institutional arrangements and financial
mechanisms. IDA has considerable global experience with road safety issues,
which will be used to help Mozambique to develop and implement a road safety
strategy. Finally, IDA involvement is critical in coordinating donor
assistance and ensuring a coherent approach to the sector. The proposed
program involves some 19 other donors, and they have indicated their desire
for IDA to continue as lead agency in the roads sector.
IDA will also help Mozambique incorporate newer concerns in its transport
sector activities, particularly gender and AIDS issues. IDA has gained
considerable experience in including gender issues in roads upgrading and
maintenance not only with the feeder roads programs but also in other roads
activities. IDA's focus on AIDS prevention is relatively new, but IDA has
launched a special program for Africa and, together with other donors
including UNAIDS, is synthesizing the lessons learned and proposing relevant
solutions. Under Bank guidance and support, ANE has recently established a
social and environmental unit to monitor and address the impact of roads
improvement on poverty reduction, gender issues, HIV/AIDS prevention and
impacts on environment. The project will build on and strengthen initiatives
launched under ROCS2 project regarding these issues.
4.      Project description
The Mozambique Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project will be a
nationwide program, comprising the following components:
Component A: Roads and bridges works
- Routine maintenance.
- Periodic maintenance.
- Rehabilitation of priority trunk roads and bridges.
- Rural roads rehabilitation and periodic maintenance.
- Emergency works for roads damaged by flooding.
- Preparation of detailed engineering designs and tender documents, and
supervision of works.
Component B: Policy reforms and institutional strengthening for sustainable
and effective road sector management
- Establishment of an institutional framework for the sector, which ensures
effective, transparent and accountable roads management and administration.
-3 -



This will include clear separation of the financing and allocation
functions (under the Road Fund) from the management of contracts and
supervision of construction and maintenance, and creation of an independent
Road Board responsible for overseeing and monitoring performance in the
overall sector. ANE and the Road Fund will be supported and strengthened
in their respective roles.
- Establishment of the most appropriate financial management framework for
ANE, the Road Fund and program and projects management, to ensure the
sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds to cover roads
maintenance needs.
- Establishment of a system of technical and financial auditing and
performance monitoring for the Road Fund.
- Preparation of a strategy for human resources development, focusing on
procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial management and project
management in government road and transport management institutions.
- Strengthening of the program started under ROCS2 to help prevent the spread
of HIV/AIDS.
- Implementation of a road safety measures. Measures will include improved
collection of traffic accident statistics for identification of black
spots, safety audits on the major trunk roads, incorporation of additional
safety features and requirements in road design, and installation and
maintenance of road structures designed for safety, such as guard rails.
- Promotion of local contractors through training (including on labor-based
methods) and other activities.
- Support of an unit in ANE responsible for addressing issues of AIDS,
poverty alleviation and gender. A socioeconomic impact assessment of ROCS2
currently underway will provide the baseline data against which future
progress can be measured.
- Establishment of a unit responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
program implementation progress and impact.
Component C: Strategy formulation and preparatory activities for phases two of
the roads investment program
- Revisions and updating of the national integrated road sector strategy to
reflect emerging priorities identified during ongoing stakeholder
consultations.
- Preparation of environmental impact assessment for phase two.
- Preparation of social impact assessments for phase two investments. The
social impact assessments will include baseline information for social
monitoring, a participatory gender assessment, and assessments of the
impacts of HIV/AIDS.
- Preparation of socioeconomic impact assessments of roads works for phase
two investments.
- Detailed design for roads of phase two investment.
5.      Financing
(US$ million)
Government budget
12.4
International Development
Association (IDA)
160.2
Road Fund
190.4
-4 -



Parallel financiers
261.9
Total:
624 .9
6.      Implementation
Program implementation period. The program will take place over ten years,
2001-2011. The project (phase one of the program) will take place over four
years, 2001-2005, completed by March 2005 and closed by September 2005.
Program coordination and oversight. During phase one, the ANE Board will be
responsible for policy guidance and overall program oversight, and will ensure
coordination and cooperation among central, regional and local authorities,
government agencies involved with program implementation, and the private
sector. During phases two and three, the independent Road Board established
under phase one will take over the role of program oversight and coordination.
Currently, the ANE Board is chaired by the president of ANE and comprises
officials of government agencies (including the ministry of finance), and
representatives of the private sector and academic institutions.
Executing agency. The National Roads Administration (Administra6ao Nacional
de Estradas (ANE)) will execute the program.
Implementation arrangements. Implementation of the program will be split
between the central level and provincial and local authorities. At the
central level, ANE's directorate of national roads (Dire6ao de Estradas
Nacionais (DEN)) will manage operations for primary and secondary roads, and
its directorate of regional roads (Dire6ao de Estradas Regionais (DER)) will
manage those of urban and rural roads and of local authorities. ANE (formerly
DNEP) has the capacity and capabilities to implement such a program since it
has successfully implemented ROCS1 and ROCS2 projects, handling over US$100
million in procurement and disbursements for each of the past three years
(excluding the routine maintenance and the periodic maintenance 100 percent
financed by the Road Fund and executed by ANE). Agreements and distribution
of tasks among DEN and DER and its provincial offices, provincial governments,
and autonomous city councils will be specified in the new ANE's internal
rules. Responsibilities for routine maintenance on both national roads
(primary and secondary) and on regional roads (tertiary) will devolve to the
provincial offices, while in the short and medium terms, rehabilitation will
continue to be centrally planned and implemented. Planning and contract
management support will be provided through DER, with financing from the Road
Fund. The project will assist ANE strengthen its capacity in procurement
through technical assistance based on an assessment of procurement capacity of
implementing agencies at the central, provincial governments, and local
levels, carried out during project pre-appraisal.
Parallel financing arrangements. As with ROCS2 many development partners are
interested in supporting the Mozambique Roads and Bridges Management and
Maintenance Program. Preliminary commitments from development partners total
about US$262 million for Phase 1. Donor contributions will be made through
parallel financing, rather than cofinancing arrangements to smooth
implementation. During implementation, a donor's working group will meet
monthly to discuss implementation status and outstanding issues. The
government, the ANE Board (the independent road board, later on), and road
- 5 -



authorities will participate in the meetings at the request of the working
group.
Procurement arrangements. Consultant services, works and equipment to be
financed under the IDA credit will be procured according to World Bank
procurement guidelines.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
Accounting system. ANE through DER, DEN and the provincial and local
implementing agencies will establish accounting systems tracking the cost of
various goods, works and services provided under the program, including
depreciation, the cost of capital and all other common costs.
Financial management reports. Separate financial management systems will be
established for ANE and the Road Fund. The program accounting systems will
operate in accordance with the "Financial, Accounting, Reporting, and
Auditing Handbook," dated January 1995 and published by the World Bank, and
the World Bank "Project Financial Management Manual," dated February 1999.
The program will support capacity building initiatives including training to
ensure that accounts management and reporting are timely and effective. ANE
will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting
procedures will be acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other
cooperating partners.
The principal objective of the financial management systems (FMS) is to
support management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose
of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs
required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people
of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall
progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For ANE to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS are being
developed in accordance with the financial management action plan. Salient
features of the action plan include: the intervention of a financial
management consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the
project's FMS (using an integrated accounts package), to prepare the project's
financial procedures manual and to train staff in the operation of the system;
the establishment of a representative financial management committee; the
recruitment of a project accountant and the availability of support staff;
capacity building; the establishment of a fixed assets register and a
contracts register; monthly bank reconciliation and quarterly reporting of
financial information; cash flow management including variance analysis; and
an annual external audit will be undertaken on terms of reference acceptable
to IDA.
While ANE is working towards putting into place a system of Project Management
Report (PMR) based disbursements, in the short term it will follow existing
disbursement procedures as outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook,
including direct payment, reimbursement and special commitments.     However,
the successful implementation of the project's FMS under the supervision of
the project accountant should facilitate the conversion to PMR-based
disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness. In that regard, a
- 6 -



financial management review of the project will be undertaken by a World Bank
financial management specialist within 12 months of credit effectiveness to
assess progress.
Auditing. Terms of reference for annual audits of program accounts, special
accounts and statement of expenses and for the financial annual audit of the
Road Fund will be agreed upon at negotiations. Auditing will be carried out
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the reports of such audits
will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year. Separate audits will be carried out for ANE's
accounts, program accounts, special accounts and statement of expenses and the
Road Fund. Yearly technical and financial audits will be carried out for the
Road Fund. The audits will be commissioned and financed independently to
ensure complete autonomy and objectivity. Agreement have been reached on the
implementation procedures for this during the pre-appraisal mission.
Supervision. The Bank will devote some 30 staff weeks per year to supervise
progress under the program, and a total of 300 staff weeks through fiscal
2010. During the first two to three years, supervision will focus on progress
with implementing institutional and policy reforms as well as completing the
agreed program of civil works. During the following years supervision will
focus on quality of works; implementation of the AIDS prevention strategy;
success in using local resources (including private sector local contractors,
and female workers); capacity building; institutional strengthening; and
decentralization of rural roads maintenance responsibilities. During all
phases, particular attention will be paid to the operational and financial
performance of the Road Fund.
Reviews. Reviews by the Bank, together with the government and the other
involved parties to assess progress in implementing the agreed program will be
carried out at the midpoint of each phase of the APL, about eighteen months
after the start of each phase. The reviews will consider and discuss the
results of the program implementation plan (PIP) and recommendations for
updating and amending the PIP for the remainder of program implementation.
The reviews will specify actions that must be completed before the next phase
is launched. Special attention will be paid to timeliness and level of
transfers to the Road Fund, which will be tracked monthly. Annual reviews
have proved very useful under ROCS1 and ROCS2.
A midterm review will be carried out two years after effectiveness of phase
one to assess progress under the program, achievement of overall objectives,
role of the different partners and to eventually reorient the program if
needed to ensure achievement of objectives. The ANE Board (Road Board later
on) through ANE will contract a consultant (under program finance) to review
and assess the progress of program implementation and prepare the necessary
documentation for the review. The ANE Board (then Road Board) through ANE
will be responsible for preparation of the necessary documentation for the
reviews and planning of review meetings. The review will evaluate progress in
reaching program objectives, identify measures needed to reach objectives, and
revisit monitoring indicators, defining new ones where necessary. As with the
annual reviews, considerable attention will be paid to performance in
allocating agreed resources to the Road Fund in a timely fashion. If
allocations fall below the agreed levels, consideration will be given to
eventually reducing the size of the program.
- 7 -



Monitoring and evaluation. Overall program monitoring is based on indicators
prepared during appraisal and on the program implementation plan to be
finalized by the Borrower and agreed during negotiations. The ANE Board
(phase one), and the independent Road Board (phases two and three) will
monitor and coordinate activities. It will, through ANE, prepare progress
reports every six months, and submit them to the Bank within one month
thereafter. No later than three months after completion of the program, the
Borrower will prepare and provide to the Bank a report on the execution of the
program, its costs, and current and future benefits to be derived from it.
The implementing agencies will monitor progress and report monthly to the ANE
Board (phase one) and the Road Board (phases two and three).
7.      Sustainability
The benefits of the program will be sustained through effective, transparent
and accountable roads management, and stable, timely, sufficient and secure
funding for roads maintenance. The program includes activities to strengthen
management capacity at the central and local levels and to introduce
mechanisms to mobilize internally the required resources and properly manage
these resources. To assure sustainability of the program's impact on poverty,
AIDS and gender, the program is establishing a permanent unit within ANE to
address and monitor these issues. This unit will coordinate with the social
units of government agencies and with nongovernmental dealing with issues,
including UNAIDS.
8.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Implementation problems. Significant delays occurred during implementation of
ROCS1 and ROCS2 due to the imprecise definition and scheduling of works. The
proposed program will build on capacity created under ROCS1 and ROCS2 and much
more precisely define the planning and design of works. The integrated roads
sector strategy defines priorities for roads for the ten-year program, but
will be updated continuously during implementation to allow priorities to be
redefined as conditions change. In addition the detailed design and tender
documents for most of the roads under IDA financing will be prepared and ready
prior to effectiveness, as well as prior to the start of phase 2 and phase 3.
Further, procurement rules and practices will be specified in detail. Delays
can also be avoided by using existing detailed designs for roads that have not
yet been built. Several such detailed designs were prepared under ROCS2, and
need only be updated before work begins under the proposed program. Finally,
implementation can proceed more smoothly by paying more attention to
supervision. Close works supervision is key , combined technical, financial
and procurement audits funded under the project can help mitigate the risk.
Institutional and policy framework. Experience with programs worldwide shows
that having in place good policy and institutional frameworks contributes to
the effectiveness and sustainability of investments. The program will assist
with implementing new policies and effective and sustainable institutional
arrangements, particularly those focusing on improved management, and on
poverty reduction, gender equity, and AIDS prevention. It will also help
build capacity through training and technical assistance and careful
supervision and monitoring. The phased approach of the APL will ensure that
policy and institutional reforms are implemented prior to undertaking major
investments in works.
-8-



Participatory approach. The national roads strategy is being prepared through
extensive consultations with all stakeholders, especially road users. These
consultations will ensure that priorities, according to multi-criteria
approach, are defined transparently and with wide support from the public.
Government is committed to the approach and will support the priorities
defined through the consultations. A process is being established through
this exercise to revisit and update the strategy continuously to reflect
changing priorities.
Sustainable financing mechanisms. An area of focus for the program is to
establish financial mechanisms that will ensure the sufficient, timely, stable
and secure flow of funds to cover roads maintenance needs. The program will
also assist with establishing appropriate financial management systems for the
Road Fund, ANE and the provinces that guarantee accountability and
transparency.
Procurement.  Experience under the earlier ROCS projects shows capacity for
procurement to be good although there is still need for additional
strengthening. Under ROCS2, the tendency has mainly been to handle
procurement on an emergency basis, which allows for less stringent procurement
procedures. There is now a need for a more systematic approach, particularly
with the systematic preparation of design and tender documents for periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation of roads. The Bank will assist the government
strengthen capacity for procurement through technical assistance based on an
assessment of procurement capacity of implementing agencies at the central,
provincial governments, and local levels, carried out during project pre-
appraisal.
Using local contractors. Mozambique has a small, but growing local
construction industry. Lessons from ROCS2 show that the industry needs to be
strengthened before it can take on full responsibilities for major road
rehabilitation and upgrading. The program will assist them build capacity,
and will increasingly rely on them as capacity is built. It will also
continue to use international contractors where appropriate. Nearly all of
routine maintenance contracts (which are fully financed under the Road Fund)
are carried out by local contractors. Procurement packaging for periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works, as well as for goods and consulting
services, under IDA financing, will wherever possible be structured so as to
support development of local contracting and consulting industry.
9.      Program of targeted intervention.   No
10.     Environmental aspects (including public consultation)
An initial full environmental impact assessment (EIA) was completed for
planned road works. This included consultations with 21 government and
nongovernmental organizations, and discussions with local people and villages
chiefs during field inspections. The investigation concluded that the planned
road works will not have much if any impact on the environment. None of the
IDA-financed subprojects are located in sensitive ecological areas. The
subprojects do not require resettlement and no minorities are affected. In-
migration (and associated effects) was identified as a potential effect of
providing improved transportation access. Specific measures to mitigate its
impact are included in the project. ANE developed and is implementing
measures to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS among workers and people living
near project roads. The overall conclusion is that the subprojects proposed
-9-



for IDA funding can proceed with no significant adverse environmental effects.
11.     Contact point:
Task Manager
Abdelmoula Ghzala
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4450
Fax: 202 473 8326
12.     For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may no
necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 10 -



