Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21839
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR127.4 MILLION
(US$162.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR
PHASE 1 OF THE
ROADS AND BRIDGES MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
(APL-Phase 1)
MAY 23, 2001
Transport Group
Angola, Malawi, Mozambique
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 4/30/01)
SDR 1.00 = US$1.27227
Currency Unit = Mozambique meticais
US$1.00 = MZM 19,000
MZM 1.00 = US$0.000053
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)   =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kilometer)   =      0.625 miles
1 liter    =      0.220 imperial gallons
1 cubic meter    =       220 imperial gallons
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager:    Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader:     Abdelmoula Ghzala -



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           African Development Bank
ADF           African Development Fund
AFD           Agence FranZaise de D6veloppement
ANE           Adminstrac,o Nacional de Estradas
ASDI          Swedish International Development Agency
BADEA         Arab Bank for Economic Development of Africa
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DEP           Departamento de Estradas e Pontes
DFID          British International Development Agency
DNEP          Direcqao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes
EDF           European Development Fund
EU            European Union
FAC           Fonds d' Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IDA           International Development Association
IsDB          Islamic Development Bank
HDM           Highway Design Model (World Bank)
HNMS          highway network management system
JICA          Japan International Cooperation Agency
KDF           Kuwait Development Fund
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MICOA         Ministry of Coordination for Environmental Affairs
MOPWH         Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MOT           Ministry of Transport
MPF           Ministry of Planning and Finance
NGO           nongovernmental organization
NDF           Nordic Development Fund
NORAD         Norway Development Agency
OPEC Fund   Oil Producing and Exporting Countries' Fund for Development
ROCS          Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
SOE           statements of expenses
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
UNCDF         United Nations Capital Development Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development






Mozambique: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
CONTENTS
A: Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective ....................................................................3
Al. Program purpose and program phasing ....................................................................                                  ,      .       3
A2.    Project development objectives ....................................................................3
A3.   Key performance indicators ....................................................................3
B: Strategic Context ....................................................................3
B 1.    Sector-related  Country  Assistance Strategy  (CAS) goal supported by the project ..........                                           ...........3
B2.    Main sector issues and  government strategy ....................................................................4
B3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................................7
B4.    Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent credits ................                                        .......................8
C: Project Description Summary ....................................................................9
C l.    Project components ....................................................................                                                       9
C2.    Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................................. 11
C3.    Benefits and target population ...................................................................                                           11
C4.    Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...................................................................                           11
D:  Project Rationale ....................................................................                                                                 14
Dl.    Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection .......................................................... 14
D2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .................... 15
D3.    Lessons learned  and reflected  in the project design .................................................................. 15
D4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................................ 16
D5.    Value added of Bank  support in this project ...................................................................                              17
E: Summary Project Analysis ...................................................................                                                            17
El. Economic .17
E2. Financial .18
E3. Technical .19
E4. Institutional .19
E5. Environmental .19
E6. Social .21
F: Sustainability and Risks .............................                                                                                                  23
Fl.  Sustainability ............................. 23
F2. Critical risks .............................                                                                                                    23
F3.  Possible controversial aspects .............................                                                                                   24
G: Main Credit Conditions .........................                                                                                                         24
H: Readiness for Implementation .........................                                                                                                   25
I: Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                                                                                                 25



Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary ........................................ 26
Annex 2: Project Description ........................................                                                            33
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs .................................................... 51
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ........................................                                                 55
Annex 5:  Financial Analysis Sunimary ........................................                                                   72
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                                     85
Annex 7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........................................ 96
Annex 8:  Documents in the Project File ........................................                                                 97
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits ........................................                                                98
Annex 10: Mozambique Country at a Glance ....................................... 100
Annex 11: Summary Environmental Management Plan                                 ...................................... 102
Maps



Mozambique
Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC02
Date: 05/23/01                                 Team Leader: Abdelmoula Ghzala
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans          Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: 1785                               Sector: TH-Highways
Lending Instrument: Adjustable Program Loan (APL)   Theme(s): Poverty reduction
. Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Program FinacigData                               _________
APL         Indicative Financing Plan             Estimated inplementation      Borrower
_  Period (Bank FY)
IDA                Others    Total   Commitment         Closing
US$ m      %       US$ m    US$ m         Date           Date
APL 1 Credit   162.0    23%      541.6     703.6   06/30/2001      06/30/2005    Government of
Mozambique
APL 2 Credit    135     30%        318       453    07/01/2005     06130/2008   Government of
_______ __     =      _ ________        _________                               Mozambique
APL 3 Credit    135     25%        409       544    07/01/2008     06/30/2011    Government of
__ =_______ _  =_______  _____= __ L___________ _ ,Mozambique
Total          432      25%      1,268     1,700_                               _-
Project Financing Data  I   Loan [XI Credit f I Grant [ I] Guarantee  [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 162.0
Amount (SDRm): 127.4
Proposed terms:  []  To be defined     [X] Multicurrency    []  Single currency
[I   Standard Variable [XI Fixed    []    IIBOR-based
Grace period (years):     10 years
Years to maturity:        40 years
Commitment fee:           N/A percent
Service charge:           0.75 percent



Financig pl1an:U$mil
Source                               Local          For~~~~~~~~~~~~teign  Total
IDA                                                     33.5            128.5           162.0
Government of Mozambique budget                         13.5             0.0             13.5
Road Fund                                              117.1             80.7           197.8
Parallel financiers (details of participation to be     93.9           236.3            330.3
firmed up during appraisal)
Total                                                  258.0           445.6            703.6
Parallel financiers:: ADB; ADF; AFD; ASDI; BADEA; DANIDA; DFID; EDF; EU; FAC; Irish Republic, IsDB;
JICA; KDF; KfW; NDF; NORAD; OPEC Fund; USAID.
Borrower: Government of Mozambique
Responsible agency: Ministry of Public Works and Housing through the autonomous Administrac,ao Nacional de
Estradas (ANE)
Address: Maputo, Mozambique
Contact Person: Mr. Carlos Fragoso, Chairman
Tel: 258-1-475157          Fax: 258-1- 475533   E-mail: Pcaane@Teledata.Mz (Carlos Fragoso),
Other agency(ies):
Address:
Contact Person:
Tel:                       Fax:                             E-mail:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$ million):
Annual          36.9         38.2         38.9        40.1          8.0
Cumulative      36.9         75.1        113.9        154.0       162.0
Program implementation period: September 2001-June 2011, Phase 1: September 2001-June 2005 (46 months)
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2001             Phase 1 expected closing date: 06/30/2005
2



A:    Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
Al. Program purpose and program phasing
The overall purpose of the proposed program is to stimulate economic growth and contribute to poverty
reduction through improved road infrastructure, better sector policies, and enhanced roads sector
management. Improved road transportation helps generate growth and reduce poverty by lowering
transportation costs and stimulating development of markets. This encourages farmers to increase
production and provides them with opportunities to do so by making it easier to obtain inputs and sell
outputs. Improved road transportation also makes it simpler for people to go to school, visit health
facilities and travel to jobs in nonagricultural sectors. In the case of Mozambique, road improveiments
bring about national integration, social equity and political unity by helping to integrate the poor and
other vulnerable groups into the society. They also place the country in a critical strategic role as the
transport provider for neighboring landlocked countries, while opening external markets for trade.
The program will be implemented over ten years in three phases, each having well defined objectives and
scope. Phase one (APLI, four years) will focus on carrying out systematic programmed periodic
maintenance of the maintainable network of paved and unpaved roads and prioritized rehabilitation,
implementing institutional and policy reforms, and completing preparation for the long-term investment
program. Phases two and three (APL2 and APL3, three years each) will focus on periodic maintenance
and rehabilitating priority roads and bridges; strengthening road management capacity; and putting into
place a long-term program to improve road safety. The second and third phases will be contingent on
successful implementation of phase one activities and satisfaction of agreed triggers.
A2. Project development objectives
The specific APLl objectives are to (a) improve the coverage and condition of roads and bridges; (b)
strengthen the country's capacity to manage and administer the road sector effectively and transparently,
with efficient and sustainable institutional arrangements; (c) establish financing mechanisms to ensure
sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds for roads maintenance, affordable at the
macroeconomic level and for the road users; and (d) improve road transport safety. Secondary objectives
are to help prevent the spread of AIDS and encourage employment of women in the roads sector.
A3. Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators include measures of improved road coverage and quality, such as size of the
maintainable network, kilometers of roads under periodic maintenance, kilometers rehabilitated, traffic
volumes, truck freight rates, and percentage of roads in fair or good condition. They include indicators of
improved roads sector policies and management, such as implementation of institutional reforms intended
to improve roads management; installation of new financial management systems for Administra,co
Nacional de Estradas (ANE), the Road Fund; and periodic transfer of required amounts to the Road Fund.
They include management benchmarks, such as the time for tendering, contracting road works and
payment to contractors; and the percentage of works completed on time and within budget. Finally, they
include measures of social impacts, such as decreases in number and severity of accidents per vehicle
kilometer traveled, increase in HIV/AIDS awareness of people working on and living near roads included
in the program, and number of women workers employed by the program.
B:  Strategic Context
B]. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
Document number: IDA/R2000-76[IFC/R2000-80]   Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/01/00
3



The proposed program strongly supports the government and CAS objectives to promote economic
growth to reduce poverty and improve the well-being of the Mozambican people. The Government's
growth and poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) and the CAS explicitly identify increased investment
in infrastructure (roads, in addition to energy, water and communications) as the single most efficient
contribution to long-term growth and to improved well-being of the poor.
The program will contribute to the PRSP and CAS goals in several ways. It will help create economic
opportunities (first CAS pillar) by improving rural access to markets and services (particularly of densely
populated and high agricultural potential areas), improving traders' access to neighboring countries and
maintaining the principal national and coastal links to promote tourism and national unity. It will also
support government efforts to rehabilitate and maintain feeder roads serving the rural poor. It will help
increase human capabilities (second CAS pillar) by supporting activities to prevent the spread of AIDS
and reducing injuries and deaths due to traffic accidents, and promoting gender equity by encouraging
employment of women in the roads sector at all levels and in all capacities and increasing female access
to transportation. It will help improve governance and public administration (third CAS pillar) by
establishing an efficient and accountable institutional framework for roads management and
administration, fostering private sector participation in road rehabilitation and maintenance, and
strengthening decentralized road planning and management processes.
B2. Main sector issues and government strategy
Mozambique' s road network comprising some 28,000 kilometers of paved, earth and gravel roads (with
paved roads accounting for about 5,200 kilometers of the network)-was badly damaged or neglected
during the country's 17 years of civil conflict (see Annex 5, Table A5.2). During the conflict, the ability
of the National Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DNEP) to maintain roads was severely harnpered by
security concerns. However, other factors also contributed to DNEP's poor performance, notably the
severe shortage of funds for maintenance, lack of institutional capacity to manage the network, and
inefficient operational policies and procedures. At the time the peace agreements were signed in 1992, it
was estimated that less than 10 percent of the network was in good condition and more than one-third of
roads were in such poor condition they were not passable on a regular basis. The rural roads (some
16,000 kilometers of low traffic tertiary roads) were in particularly poor condition, with many being
impassable. The poor condition of roads contributed to high vehicle operating costs, high transport costs
and consequently low traffic volumes, posing major constraints to the marketing of farm produce and to
economic growth generally.
Moreover, most of Mozambique's transport infrastructure was designed to serve the colonial economy,
providing access to sea ports for landlocked countries in southern Africa. Consequently, although direct
lateral routes from countries such as Malawi and Zimbabwe to the ports of Beira and Maputo are
adequate, north-south links within Mozambique are still weak. This has serious implications, particularly
for the agricultural sector, as large areas of the country, especially the agriculturally productive areas of
the north and center, remain isolated and poorly integrated into national markets.
Achievements in the roads network and sector management since 1992
Bank and other donor assistance in the sector have led to major improvements in the condition of
Mozambique's road network since 1992. Under the First and Second Roads and Coastal Shipping
Projects (ROCS I and ROCS2, approved in 1992 and 1994 respectively), over 3,800 kilometers of
primary, secondary and tertiary roads have been rehabilitated; 3,000 meters of metallic bridges have been
laid; 2,000 kilometers of roads have received periodic maintenance; and about 14,000 kilometers of roads
are benefiting from routine maintenance annually since 1999. Currently, an estimated 25 percent of the
4



network is in good condition and about 39 percent is in fair condition (Annex 5, Table A5.1). Only about
10 percent of classified roads, primarily unimproved rural roads, are impassable during periods of heavy
rainfall. These improvements have led to significant traffic growth during 1994-98 and helped integrate
formerly isolated rural areas into the national economy, benefiting farmers.
The two ROCS projects have also brought about significant progress in institutional strengthening and
building of human resource capacities through education and training in the highway subsector and other
transportation agencies. Important institutional and policy reforms have been initiated, including the
creation of the Road Fund, separation of force accounts construction companies from DNEP (presently
ANE), and privatization of equipment pools and of CETA (previously, a state-owned construction
company). In addition in 1998 the government issued its roads policy. In 1999 the government changed
DNEP into ANE, a public agency separate from the civil service, with dual responsibility for
technical/operational matters and for road financing (separate directorates), under a board of directors
with representatives from the public and the private sectors and academia.
What remains to be done
Although management of the road network has improved since ROCS2 was appraised, the institutional
and policy reform process is yet to be completed. During an October 1999 seminar organized by ANE
and the ministry of public works, the government announced plans to implement second and third
generation institutional reforms over the following two years. The third generation reforms in particular
are compatible with the Bank's recommendations and with the models of the Road Management
Initiative. They include separating the funding and planning functions that are currently undertaken by
ANE directorates; establishing the Road Fund as an autonomous legal entity, governed by a
representative board of directors (including representatives from the private sector) and managed by a
professional adrninistration; ensuring that revenues intended for road maintenance flow fully and directly
into the Road Fund; and strengthening capacity of subnational govemments to undertake road works.
These actions will create greater transparency, improve financial management, establish a clearer
allocation of responsibilities in road management, and guarantee the steady and regular flow of funds for
roads maintenance.
Further, Mozambican private sector participation in road construction is still lagging. This is partly due
to the delays in privatizing CETA, difficult access to equipment and credit, and a tax system that favors
foreign over local firms. ANE and the association of Mozambican contractors are now actively
cooperating in analysis of these issues.
More also needs to be done with upgrading Mozambique's road network. To further stimulate economic
growth, and reduce poverty among Mozambique's rural people, rehabilitation needs to be expanded to the
densely populated and economically productive areas of the north and center. Zambezia, the country's
most densely populated province, is still not connected to either the north or the south with paved roads.
Moreover, many of the country's regions with highest population density are not located near viable roads
of any kind paved, gravel, or earthen. Thus, it is critical to address not just the primary roads network,
but also the secondary and tertiary ones, especially rural roads.
On road safety much more needs to be done. Road accidents, and consequent deaths, injuries and
property damage impose important costs on the economy of the country.
Finally, it is now well understood that improved roads contribute to the spread of HIV/AIDS and result in
high risks for road workers, truckers and for people living nearby or using roads. The rapid spread of
HIV/AIDS in southern Africa means that roads programs in this region must now include measures to
prevent HIV/AIDS among workers and people living nearby and using roads.
5



The main sector issues to be addressed in the future can be summarized as follows:
*  Improving the coverage and condition of the roads network
*  Connecting agriculturally productive areas to the rest of the country through improvements in the
road network
*  Strengthening capacity to manage road sector activities, effectively, sustainably and transparently, at
central and local levels
*  Ensuring the sufficient, timely and stable flow of funds for roads maintenance, and establishing
policies and processes for reviewing and adjusting funding sources for road maintenance
*  Involving road users in setting road priorities and in monitoring and evaluation of the roads program
*  Decentralizing responsibilities to the regional institutions best able to bear them, and ensuring the
accountability and transparency of these institutions
*  Fostering the development of the national road construction industry, and finding the appropriate
balance between the public and private sectors in the roads sector
*  Improving roads safety
*  Reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS that is associated with improved road networks.
Government strategy
The government's strategy, delineated in its road policy paper issued in August 1998 and further
elaborated in its integrated road sector strategy, focuses on improving the roads and bridges to remove
constraints to growth. Thus, it gives priority to expanding links to agricultural areas, securing access to
ports, upgrading corridors to neighboring countries to encourage industrial investment, and improving the
coastal road network to stimulate development of tourism. The cornerstone of the Government's network
strategy is improvement of the main north-south road that runs from Maputo to Nampula and from there
on to Pemba. This road will contribute to national unity, promote internal commerce, and improve access
to major social, political and commercial centers for many people by significantly reducing transportation
costs and travel times within the country. A second goal for the primary network is to ensure secure and
continuous connection of all provincial capitals to the network. The target is to increase the proportion of
roads in good or fair condition of the network.
With respect to the secondary road network, the government's priorities are to maintain and rehabilitate
roads which are economically viable or serve social objectives such as regional balance, or both. As with
the entire network, selecting roads will be an ongoing process, involving regular review of multiyear
work plans. Special attention will be paid to rehabilitating roads, which serve as international and
domestic corridors, especially the Nacala, Beira and Maputo corridors. As for tertiary roads, priorities are
to improve access to rural areas and markets, especially in densely populated areas. During the ten-year
program, the maintained tertiary network will nearly double from just over 5,900 kilometres to about
1 0,000 kilometres.
Government has now introduced, through the integrated road strategy process, multicriteria prioritization
for rehabilitation and rolling multiyear programming for periodic and routine maintenance, each year
defining the program for the next three years. This is a planning and programming tool for setting road
rehabilitation and maintenance priorities and allocating budget resources, taking into account the
affordable levels of funds and the macroeconomic constraints. The main criteria and their weights to
define the priorities for rehabilitation are: economic feasibility (40 percent), national integration (20
percent), accessibility (20 percent), social factors (15 percent), and environment (5 percent). These
criteria reflect stakeholders' priorities expressed during workshops held around the country (Maputo,
Beira and Nampula) in preparation of the integrated roads strategy. The workshops involved stakeholders
from central and local government agencies, the private sector, NGOs, women's groups, academic
6



institutions, donors and road users. Within ten years government expects to systematically maintain all
roads that have been specified in the annual programs, eliminating backlogs. This will help prevent road
deterioration and thus expensive rehabilitation.
With regard to the organization of the sector, the road policy and strategy emphasize the need for (a)
providing sufficient resources for undertaking yearly maintenance of the roads, (b) decentralizing both
management and decision-making, (c) strengthening institutions responsible for the management of the
road networks, and (d) increasing use of local resources in roads works, including local contractors, local
labor (especially women), and local materials;
Government's strategy also includes measures to address potential social impacts of the roads program. It
will continue its commitment to incorporate HIV/AIDS prevention activities as part of all roads projects.
Government will also implement a comprehensive approach to road safety, incorporating engineering,
education, and enforcement efforts.
B3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The proposed program will assist the government to (a) improve coverage and condition of roads and
bridges; (b) strengthen capacity to manage road sector activities; (c) establish, effective, efficient and
sustainable institutional arrangements for the sector; (d) establish mechanisms for sustainable financing of
road maintenance; (e) promote use of local resources in roads construction and maintenance; and (f)
support efforts to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS and improve road safety.
Strategic choices
Choice of Bank instrument. An adjustable program loan (APL) is the appropriate instrument to support
the sector. The government has a long-term vision for the sector and has recently defined specific targets
for sector reforms which can be used as triggers for phases two and three of an APL. Design, engineering
and bid documents for subsequent phases can be prepared under funding available in preceding phases.
An APL would also serve as an excellent vehicle to coordinate donor assistance to the sector.
Size of the roads program. The size of the program is large in comparison to past outlays in the sector.
However, ANE has demonstrated its capacity to manage large expenditures; it has been handling over
US$100 million in contracts for each of the past three years (excluding routine maintenance and periodic
maintenance financed by the Road Func1 and executed by ANE) . The government has also expressed its
willingness to commit funds for ongoing maintenance needs within the country's medium term
expenditure framework. Moreover, funds will become available through the Highly Indebted 'Poor
Country debt relief initiative, which are intended to finance Poverty Reduction Strategy priorities. Roads
is one of the top priorities of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. However, the project and program will be
reviewed either at midterm review or prior to approving Phase 2 of the APL, if there is a clear signal that
the expected funds are not being made available, or during implementation if the agreed funds are not
forthcoming.
Balance of roads between main, secondary and tertiary roads. With particular focus on periodic
maintenance, Government's road program, outlined in the Mozambique Integrated Road Sector Strategy,
gives priority to (a) main roads which contribute to national integration, thus ensuring economic and
personal mobility; (b) roads that provide direct access to zones with existing or latent production
potential, thus stimulating growth; and (c) roads that reach areas of the country where the road network
has been neglected, thus promoting greater regional balance (see section B2, government strategy above).
IDA will support government's program, focusing on the trunk road EN I-National Road 1, the top
7



priority in the strategy and which generates substantial economic benefits. Planned interventions over the
four year period of APLI are balanced as follows:
(In % of kms executed)      Primary            Secondary            Tertiary
Routine Maintenance           22                   37                 41
Periodic Maintenance          25                  55                  20
Rehabilitation                19                  35                  46
Total                         22                   39                 39
Focusing on maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading rather than opening new roads.
Mozambique has a large road network, a legacy of colonial days, part of which is still in serious disrepair.
The program will therefore focus on maintaining, rehabilitating and upgrading the existing road network,
rather than on opening new roads. This will also make it easier for government to meet future
maintenance needs within its budget constraints.
Choice of processes and technologies for roads works. To the extent practicable the program will use
local contractors for roads works. Experience from ROCS2 shows that local contractors have the capacity
to undertake routine maintenance and some periodic maintenance, but not to handle the large contracts or
complex road works required for major roads rehabilitation and upgrading. The program will therefore
use international contractors for major road works, but encourage them to subcontract or associate with
local companies, thus helping to further develop local capacity. In addition, the program will finance
activities to strengthen capabilities of local contractors, including training in labor-based methods, and
will increasingly draw on them as their capacity increases.
Decision to include activities addressing HIV/AIDS and gender issues. Given the cross-cutting
developmental implications of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the government has recognized that effective
HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and control strategies require a multisectoral response. The Bank is assisting
by including appropriate HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities wherever possible in its programs.
ROCS2 project has already been addressing these issues through special HIIV/AIDS actions and clauses in
contractors contracts providing information and condoms to roads workers, road users and communities
along program roads. The proposed program will build upon these initiatives. As for gender issues,
advancing the status of women requires action in as many areas of the Bank's activities as possible.
During the past two years, ANE's social concerns have deepened and there is now considerable interest in
the agency to address gender issues. The success of the ROCS I feeder roads project in increasing female
employment in roads works provides a model upon which the proposed program will build and improve,
drawing on lessons from experience.
B4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent credits
The APL will be implemented over ten years in three phases. The first phase will last four years and the
second and third phases will last three years each. Phase one of the APL will focus on (a) routine and
periodic maintenance, and rehabilitation of priority roads and bridges as defined under the integrated road
sector strategy, (b) implementing institutional and policy reforms needed for sustainable and effective
road sector management, (c) a phased rural roads maintenance program, (d) intensifying HIV/AIDS
prevention activities, (e) implementing a road safety program, and (f) carrying out the analytical and
preparatory work necessary for phase two of the program. The routine maintenance is 100% financed by
the Road Fund.
Phase two activities will focus on maintenance and rehabilitating the country's major roads and bridges
(as defined through the updated integrated road sector strategy), upgrading rural roads, strengthening
8



institutions, continuing with implementation of the road safety program, the HIV/AIDS program and
gender initiatives, and conducting the analytical and preparatory work for phase three investments.
Phase three activities will be similar to those of phase two. They will be defined in detail during phase
two, and be based on lessons derived from the earlier phases of the program.
The second phase will be contingent on satisfaction of the following triggers:
*  Agreed phase one road works have been substantially completed and performance indicators
satisfactorily achieved.
*  The Road Fund is made a separate legal entity from ANE.
*  A Road Board is established and functioning one year prior to phase 1 closing.
*  Financial management of ANE and the Road Fund is satisfactory as assessed by financial and
technical audits.
* Government has timely provided agreed level of funds to the Road Fund and for counterpart funds.
*  Satisfactory implementation of the road safety plan.
*  Satisfactory implementation of HIV/AIDS prevention measures in roads sector.
*  Satisfactory completion of all preparatory activities (engineering designs and tender documents for
first set of phase two investments completed, environmental impact assessment and social impact
assessment for phase two investments completed).
Phase three will be contingent on implementation performance, institutional performance, financial
performance, and completion of all preparatory activities. Specific triggers are:
*  Agreed phase two road works have been substantially completed and performance indicators
satisfactorily achieved
*  Financial management of ANE and the Road Fund is satisfactory.
* Government has timely provided agreed level of funds to the Road Fund and for counterpart funds.
*  Satisfactory implementation of the road safety plan.
*  Satisfactory implementation of HIV/A1DS prevention measures in the sector.
*  Satisfactory completion of all preparatory activities.
During the three phases of program implementation, the Bank will gradually shift its support frcm
periodic maintenance to rehabilitation, as the Road Fund's finances improve and it takes over
responsibility for periodic maintenance. By the end of phase three of the program, the Road Fund will
cover 100 percent of periodic maintenance in addition to all routine maintenance. To support this shift,
IDA help for technical assistance and training will also be concentrated in phase one, gradually falling as
government capacity grows.
C: Project Description Summary
Cl. Project components
The Mozambique Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance will be a nationwide program,
comprising the following components:
Component A: Roads and bridges works
* Routine maintenance.
* Periodic maintenance.
*  Rehabilitation of priority roads and bridges.
9



* Rural roads and bridges.
* Emergency works for roads damaged by flooding.
*  Road safety including installation and maintenance of road structures designed for safety.
*  Preparation of detailed engineering designs and tender documents, and supervision of works.
Component B: Policy reforms and institutional strengthening for sustainable and effective road
sector management
*  Establishment of an institutional framework for the sector, which ensures effective, transparent and
accountable roads management and administration. This will include clear separation of the
financing and allocation functions (under the Road Fund) from the planning of activities, the
management of contracts and supervision of construction and maintenance, and creation of a Road
Board responsible for overseeing and monitoring performance in the overall sector. ANE and the
Road Fund will be supported and strengthened in their respective roles.
*  Establishment of the most appropriate financial management framework for ANE, the Road Fund and
program and projects management, to ensure the sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds to
cover roads maintenance needs.
*  Establishment of a system of technical and financial auditing and performance monitoring for the
Road Fund.
*  Preparation of a strategy for human resources development, focusing on procurement, disbursement,
accounting, financial management and project management in government road and transport
management institutions.
*  Strengthening of the program started under ROCS2 to help prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS.
*  Implementation of road safety measures. Measures will include improved collection of traffic
accident statistics for identification of black spots, safety audits on the major trunk roads,
incorporation of additional safety features and requirements in road design.
*  Promotion of local contractors through training (including on labor-based methods) and other
activities.
*  Support of the Social Unit of ANE responsible for addressing issues of AIDS, poverty alleviation,
environment and gender. A socioeconomic impact assessment of improvement of roads on poverty
reduction is currently underway and will provide the baseline data against which future progress can
be measured.
Component C: Strategy formulation and preparatory activities for phases two of the roads
investment program
*  Revisions and updating of the national integrated road sector strategy to reflect emerging priorities
identified during ongoing stakeholder consultations.
*  Preparation of environmental impact assessment for phase two.
*  Preparation of social impact assessments for phase two investments. The social impact assessments
will include baseline information for social monitoring, a participatory gender assessment, and
assessments of the impacts of HIVIAIDS prevention measures.
*  Preparation of socioeconomic impact assessments of roads works for phase two investments.
*  Detailed design and preparation of tender documents for roads activities of phase two investment.
10



Indicative    Percent of    Bank-    Percent of
Component                                Costs         Total      rinancing     Bank-
(US$My                    (US$M)   rinancing
A. Roads and bridges works                651.1         92.5         138.6       85.5
B.  Policy reforms institutional           40.5           5.8         16.8       10.3
strengthening
C.  Strategy formulation and                12.0          1.7          6.7        4.1
preparatory activities
Total Project Costs                        703.6         100         162.0        100
Total Financing Required                  703.6          100         162.0        100
C2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought include: (a) establishment of a sustainable, effective and
efficient institutional framework for the sector, including clear separation of the financing and allocation
functions (under the Road Fund) for maintenance activities from the planning, management of contracts
and supervision of construction and maintenance; (b) creation of a Road Board responsible for overseeing
and monitoring performance in the overall sector; (c) decentralization of responsibilities for rural roads
maintenance; (d) establishment of appropriate financial management systems for ANE and the Road
Fund; (e) improved policies for road safety; (f) promotion of private sector involvement in roads
construction and maintenance; (g) creation of mechanisms to generate funds internally for road
maintenance, including collection of road user charges.
C3. Benefits and target population
The program will stimulate economic growth and reduce poverty by increasing quality and coverage of
roads, enhancing road safety, and improving sector policies, administration and management. The
program will contribute to the national effort to reduce the incidence and impact of HIV/AIDS through its
fully integrated HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention program for road workers, ANE staff, road users
and communities along program roads.
While the program will benefit the entire population, rural dwellers (who comprise 64 percent of the
population) will benefit the most as investments will be targeted to linking underserved rural areas with
the country's regional and national road network. This will provide rural people with better access to
markets, health and education facilities and other basic services. The program will also
disproportionately benefit women by encouraging the employment of women at all levels and in all
capacities. In addition, the program will benefit private sector contractors, by providing them with the
opportunities to participate in construction and maintenance activities.
C4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Program implementation period. The program will take place over ten years, 2001-2011. The project
(phase one of the program) will take place over four years, 2001-2005, completed by December 2004 and
closed by June 2005.
Program coordination and oversight. During phase one, the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MOPWH) will be responsible for policy guidance and overall program oversight, and will ensure
coordination and cooperation among central, regional and local authorities, government agencies involved
I I



with program implementation, and the private sector. During phases two and three, the Road Board
established under phase one will take over the role of program oversight and coordination. Currently, the
ANE Board is chaired by the president of ANE and comprises officials of government agencies
(including the ministry of finance), and representatives of the private sector and academic institutions.
Executing agency. The National Roads Administration (Administracao Nacional de Estradas (ANE))
will execute the program.
Implementation arrangements. Implementation of the program will be split between the central level
and provincial and local authorities. At the central level, ANE's directorate of national roads (Direczo de
Estradas Nacionais (DEN)) will manage operations for primary and secondary roads, and its directorate of
regional roads (Direc,o de Estradas Regionais (DER)) will advise and assist local authorities and
municipalities to implement the rural roads projects. ANE (formerly DNEP) has the capacity and
capabilities to implement such a program since it has successfully implemented ROCS 1 and ROCS2
projects, handling over US$100 million in procurement and disbursements for each of the past three years
(excluding the routine maintenance and the periodic maintenance 100% financed by the Road Fund and
executed by ANE). Agreements and distribution of tasks among DEN and DER and its provincial offices,
provincial governments, and autonomous city councils will be specified in the new ANE's internal rules.
Responsibilities for routine maintenance on both national roads (primary and secondary) and on regional
roads (tertiary) will devolve to the provincial offices (DEPs), while in the short and medium terms,
rehabilitation will continue to be centrally planned and implemented. Planning and contract management
support will be provided through DER, with financing from the Road Fund. The project will assist ANE
strengthen its capacity in procurement through technical assistance based on an assessment of
procurement capacity of implementing agencies at the central, provincial governments, and local levels,
carried out during project pre-appraisal.
Parallel financing arrangements. As with ROCS2 many development partners are interested in
supporting the Mozambique Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program. Commitments
from development partners total about US$330 million for Phase 1. Donor contributions will be made
through parallel financing, rather than cofinancing arrangements to smooth implementation. During
implementation, a donor's working group will meet monthly to discuss implementation status and
outstanding issues. The government, the ANE Board (the Road Board, later on), and road authorities will
participate in the meetings at the request of the working group.
Procurement arrangements. Consultant services, works and equipment to be financed under the IDA
credit will be procured according to World Bank procurement guidelines.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
Reporting to ANE Board through the General Manager (to be appointed) , the Chief Financial Officer
(CFO) will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be
carried out in a manner acceptable to the Government, the ANE Board, the World Bank and other
donors'.
The principal objective of the ANE's financial management systems (FMS) is to support management in
their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness
1 The responsibility for the transactions and control of funds for the routine maintenance component rests
with the Road Fund, a separate implementing Directorate within the ANE, that will become an
independent legal entity at a future date. A separate FMS is being implemented for the Road Fund and
separate external audits will be undertaken.
12



in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people of
Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and
reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the
program's/project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For ANE to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS is being developed in accordance with the
Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 5-C. Salient features of the Action Plan include:
the retention of a firm of consultants on terms of reference approved by the Bank for the supply and
installation of, training in, and support of two autonomous Financial Management Software Systems
(FMSs) for the ANE and the Road Fund; the establishment of a representative Financial Management
Committee; the recruitment of a CFO and the availability of support staff; the recruitment of a Chief
Financial Internal Auditor; capacity building; the operation of a Fixed Assets Register and an Invoicing
Control Schedule to monitor contracts; monthly bank reconciliations and quarterly reporting of financial
information; cash flow management including variance analysis.
As a transitional arrangement, until such time as the new FMS is operating satisfactorily, the project
accounts will be maintained using ANE' s present accounting system (i.e. a combination of the HOGIA
accounting package and Excel), supported as appropriate with manual records. That system is
documented in a Manual of Administrative and Accounting Procedures.
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. Specifically, audited financial statements for the ANE (project) and the Road
Fund will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the financial year end. Periodic technical
audits for the ANE (project) and the Road Fund will also be undertaken.
By Credit effectiveness, ANE will not have in place a FMS that can provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements i.e. the Project
Management Report (PMR). Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the
Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special
Commitments. However, the successful implementation of the project's FMS under the supervision of the
CFO should facilitate the conversion to PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of Credit
effectiveness. In that regard, a financial management review of the project will be undertaken by a World
Bank Financial Management Specialist within 12 months of Credit effectiveness to assess progress.
Auditing. Terms of reference for annual audits of project accounts, special accounts and staternent of
expenses and for the financial annual audit of the Road Fund were agreed upon at negotiations. Auditing
will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the reports of such audits will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. Separate audits
will be carried out for ANE' s accounts, project accounts, special accounts and statement of expenses and
the Road Fund. Periodic technical and yearly financial audits will be carried out for the Road Fund.
Interim financial audits of the Road Fund (based on TORs highlighting payments by MPF and eligible
expenditures for road maintenance) will take place every six months after the project becomes effective
until Mid-Term Review (MTR). The audits will be commissioned and financed independently to ensure
complete autonomy and objectivity. Agreements have been reached on the implementation procedures
for this during the appraisal mission.
Supervision. The Bank will devote some 30 staff weeks per year to supervise progress under the
program, and a total of 300 staff weeks through fiscal 2010. During the first two to three years,
supervision will focus on progress with implementing institutional and policy reforms as well as
completing the agreed program of civil works. During the following years supervision will focus on
quality of works; implementation of the AIDS prevention strategy; success in using local resources
13



(including private sector local contractors, and female workers); capacity building; institutional
strengthening; safeguards and decentralization of rural roads maintenance responsibilities. During all
phases, particular attention will be paid to the operational and financial performance of the Road Fund, as
well as to the level of funds (road maintenance user fees and counterpart funds) transferred to the Road
Fund.
Reviews. Annual reviews by the Bank, together with the government and the other involved parties to
assess progress in implementing the agreed program will be carried out during each phase of the APL.
The reviews will consider and discuss the results of the program implementation plan (PIP) and
recommendations for updating and amending the PIP for the remainder of program implementation. The
reviews will specify actions that must be completed before the next phase is launched. Special attention
will be paid to timeliness and level of transfers to the Road Fund, which will be tracked monthly. Annual
reviews have proved very useful under ROCS 1 and ROCS2.
A midterm review will be carried out two years after effectiveness of phase one to assess progress under
the program, achievement of overall objectives, role of the different partners and to eventually reorient
the program if needed to ensure achievement of objectives. The ANE Board (Road Board later on)
through ANE will contract a consultant (under program finance) to review and assess the progress of
program implementation and prepare the necessary documentation for the review. The ANE Board (then
Road Board) through ANE will be responsible for preparation of the necessary documentation for the
reviews and planning of review meetings. The review will evaluate progress in reaching program
objectives, identify measures needed to reach objectives, and revisit monitoring indicators, defining new
ones where necessary. As with the annual reviews, considerable attention will be paid to performance in
allocating agreed resources to the Road Fund in a timely fashion. If allocations fall below the agreed
levels, consideration will be given to eventually reducing the size of the program.
Monitoring and evaluation. Overall program monitoring is based on indicators prepared during
appraisal and on the program implementation plan to be finalized by the Borrower and agreed during
negotiations. The ANE Board (phase one), and the Road Board (phases two and three) will monitor and
coordinate activities. It will, through ANE, prepare progress reports every year, and submit them to the
Bank within two months thereafter. No later than three months after completion of the program, the
Borrower will prepare and provide to the Bank a report on the execution of the program, its costs, and
current and future benefits to be derived from it. The implementing agencies will monitor progress and
report monthly to MOPWH (phase one) and the Road Board (phases two and three).
D:  Project Rationale
D1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection
The Bank considered undertaking a small two to three year operation focused on assisting Mozambique
put into place appropriate road management institutions and sector reforms, before moving forward with a
large roads investment program. This small operation is no longer necessary as government has reached
agreement with the Bank on main policy and institutional reforms, milestones and target dates for
implementing reforms.
An APL is the appropriate instrument for a programmatic approach for this long-term program. The
phased approach of the APL will provide support for critical institutional and policy reforms while the
priority investment program is being carried out. It will also help with building capacity to address
poverty, gender and HIV/AIDS issues. The long-term approach facilitates monitoring of program
impacts.
14



D2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
Latest Supervin
Sector Issue                   Project                        (PSR) RatIgs
(Bank4inanced projeets only)
Bank-financed                                              Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Transportation          First Roads and Coastal Shipping         S                S
Program (closed December 31, 1999)
(project 1790)
Second Roads and Coastal Shipping         S               S
Program (to be closed end 2002) (project
1804)
Railways and Port Restructuring Project  S                S
(Board approval October 14, 1999)
(project 19085)
Decentralization       Local Government Project (to be           S                S
completed 1999) (project 1791)
Agriculture            Agriculture Sector Public Expenditure     S                S
Program (PROAGRI) (Board approval
February 18, 1999) (project 1799)
Urban                  Urban Development Project (under         N/A             N/A
preparation) (project 1806)
Other development
agencies
Private sector financed  Maputo-Witbank Toll Road                 S              N/A
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
D3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Implementation problems. Significant delays occurred during implementation of ROCS 1 and ROCS2 due
to the imprecise definition and scheduling of works. The proposed program will build on capacity created
under ROCS 1 and ROCS2 and much more precisely define the planning and design of works. The
integrated roads sector strategy defines priorities for roads for the ten-year program, but will be updated
continuously during implementation to allow priorities to be redefined as conditions change. In addition
the detailed design and tender documents for most of the roads under IDA financing will be prepared and
ready prior to effectiveness, as well as prior to the start of phase 2 and phase 3. Further, procurement
rules and practices will be specified in detail. Delays can also be avoided by using existing detailed
designs for roads that have not yet been built. Several such detailed designs were prepared under ROCS2.
and need only be updated before work begins under the proposed program. Finally, implementation can
proceed more smoothly by paying more attention to supervision. Close works supervision is key,
combined technical, financial and procurement audits funded under the project can help mitigate the risk.
Institutional andpolicyframework. Experience with programs worldwide shows that having in place
good policy and institutional frameworks contributes to the effectiveness and sustainability of
15



investments. The program will assist with implementing new policies and effective and sustainable
institutional arrangements, particularly those focusing on improved management, and on poverty
reduction, gender equity, and AIDS prevention. It will also help build capacity through training and
technical assistance and careful supervision and monitoring. The phased approach of the APL will ensure
that policy and institutional reforms are implemented prior to undertaking major investments in works.
Participatory approach. The national roads strategy has been prepared through extensive consultations
with all stakeholders, especially road users. These consultations ensured that priorities, according to
multi-criteria approach, are defined transparently and with wide support from the public. Government
was committed to the approach and supported the priorities defined through the consultations. A process
is being established through this exercise to revisit and update the strategy continuously to reflect
changing priorities.
Sustainablefinancing mechanisms. An area of focus for the program is to establish financial mechanisms
that will ensure the sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds to cover roads maintenance needs.
The program will also assist with establishing appropriate financial management systems for the Road
Fund, ANE and the provinces that guarantee accountability and transparency.
Procurement. Experience under the earlier ROCS projects shows capacity for procurement to be good
although there is still need for additional strengthening. Under ROCS2, the tendency has mainly been to
handle procurement on an emergency basis, which allows for less stringent procurement procedures.
There is now a need for a more systematic approach, particularly with the systematic preparation of
design and tender documents for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of roads. The Bank will assist
the government strengthen capacity for procurement through technical assistance based on an assessment
of procurement capacity of implementing agencies at the central, provincial governments, and local
levels, carried out during project pre-appraisal.
Using local contractors. Mozambique has a small, but growing local construction industry. Lessons
from ROCS2 show that the industry needs to be strengthened before it can take on full responsibilities for
major road rehabilitation and upgrading. The program will assist them build capacity, and will
increasingly rely on them as capacity is built. It will also continue to use international contractors where
appropriate. Nearly all of routine maintenance contracts (which are fully financed under the Road Fund)
are carried out by local contractors. Procurement packaging for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation
works, as well as for goods and consulting services, under IDA financing, will wherever possible be
structured so as to support development of local contracting and consulting industry.
D4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The government views roads management and maintenance as among its top priorities for stimulating
growth and reducing poverty. In 1998 it issued a road policy emphasizing the need for (a) sustainability
in the sector, (b) provision of sufficient resources for undertaking regular maintenance of the roads, (c)
decentralization and deconcentration of the management of road networks, (d) strengthening of the
institutions responsible for the management of the road networks, (e) development of the technical
capacity in the private and public sectors, and (f) promotion of the participation of the private
construction industry to take over the execution role.
During an October 1999 seminar organized by ANE and the ministry of public works, the government
highlighted the ongoing plans, milestones and target dates for implementing second and third generation
institutional reforms for road sector management over the next two years. The government confirmed,
during joint government/donor meetings in October 2000 and December 2000, that its aim is to
16



commence implementing the reforms by mid 2001. In addition, people participating in the consultations
held to prepare the CAS ranked roads as among the country's top priorities.
D5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank has been actively involved in the transport and road sectors in Mozambique since 1992. The
First and Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects (ROCSI and ROCS2, approved in 1992 and 1994
respectively) were intended to be the first in a series of projects designed to rehabilitate and strengthen the
country's road and shipping infrastructure.
The Bank currently has a highly supportive and productive working relationship with the government on
these matters. Bank involvement with developing a roads management and maintenance system will help
guarantee a focus on reducing poverty by bringing its rich experience in this area to Mozambique. It will
also help ensure institutional and financial sustainability of roads management by helping to define and
implement efficient, effective and sustainable policy frameworks, institutional arrangements and financial
mechanisms. The Bank has considerable global experience with road safety issues, which will be used to
help Mozambique to develop and implement a road safety strategy. Finally, Bank involvement is also
critical in coordinating donor assistance and ensuring a coherent approach to the sector. Government and
Donors have indicated their desire for the Bank to continue in role of lead agency in the roads sector.
The Bank will also help Mozambique incorporate newer concerns in its transport sector activities,
particularly gender and AIDS issues. The Bank has gained considerable experience in including gender
issues in roads upgrading and maintenance not only within the feeder roads programs but also in other
roads subsectors. The Bank's focus on AIDS prevention is relatively new, but the Bank has launched a
special program for Africa and, together with other donors including UNAIDS, is synthesizing the issues
and proposing relevant solutions. Under Bank guidance and support, ANE has recently established a
social and environmental unit to monitor and address the impact of roads improvement on poverty
reduction, gender issues, HIV/AIDS prevention and impacts on environment. The project will support
and strengthen this unit to fully play its role, and build on and strengthen initiatives launched under
ROCS2 project, and involving NGOs, regarding these issues.
E: Summary Project Analysis
El. Economic
(supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit NPV= the sum of the NPVs totals US$187 million; EIRR=28 percent (with a range of
14 to 64 percent for individual roads)
IDA supported roads have been selected from the priority list of roads identified under the Integrated
Road Sector Strategy. In addition to having high EIRRs, the IDA financed roads address some of the first
ranked priorities. IDA-supported road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works for phase 1 of the
program include:
1. Roads rehabilitation works. This subcomponent will rehabilitate four sections of the main north-
south link of ENI (313 kilometers) at the cost of US$54.6 million. The road is degraded to the point that
normal maintenance is not economically viable. Because of the high roughness of pavement, traffic using
this most important link (annual average traffic of 350-15,500 vehicles per day) bear high vehicle
operating costs (VOCs). Estimated economic rates of return for the four sections range from 14 to 64
percent. The sum of the NPVs for the four sections totals US$145 million.
17



2. Roads periodic maintenance works. This sub-component will provide periodic maintenance for four
sections of the main north-south link ENI (525 kilometers), at a cost of US$37.9 million. The main
economic benefit of the works is preservation of past road investments and reduction of VOCs (annual
average traffic of 150-2,200 vehicles per day). Estimated economic rates of return for the four sections
range from 14 to 21 percent. The sum of the NPVs for the four sections totals US$20 million.
3. Rural roads civil works. This subcomponent will rehabilitate 412 kilometers of rural roads in the
provinces of Gaza, Nampula and Tete, at the cost of US$17 million. Five gravel or earth roads in very
poor condition, some of them hardly trafficable during the rainy season, will be improved. The proposed
works will reduce vehicle operating costs immediately. Providing year-round access to rural areas may
also induce agricultural development benefits which have not been quantified in the global project
economic evaluation. Based solely on VOCs savings, this component has EIRR estimated at 17 to 58
percent and the sum of the NPVs totals US$22 million.
A sensitivity analysis has tested: (a) changes in investment costs (an increase of 20 percent) and (b)
changes in base traffic (a reduction of 20 percent). The economic rates of return of the proposed IDA
works are fairly robust. Only two roads see their rate of return fall to about 11%; in all the other cases
tested, the calculated economic rates of return remain above the assumed opportunity cost of capital of 12
percent.
A risk analysis, using the Monte Carlo simulation based on triangular probabilistic distribution of the
costs (from -20% to +50%) and the base traffics (from -30% to +30%), has confirmed the low risk of the
projects components. Rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and rural road components show above 95%
certainty each of having a higher than 12% EIRR and this certainty comes close to 100% for project as a
whole.
E2. Financial
(supported by Annex 5)
The existing Road Fund, which is still a directorate of ANE, will become an autonomous and independent
entity from ANE, which will clearly separate the financing function (Road Fund) from the execution
function (ANE). The Road Fund will be dedicated to financing 100% of routine maintenance of roads
and an increasing share of periodic maintenance. Simultaneously, the government will introduce a
sustainable road maintenance financing system based on: (a) road maintenance user charges set at levels
to generate sufficient resources to cover full routine maintenance, and gradually full periodic maintenance
(by end of Phase 3); (b) prompt and timely payment to the Road Fund (during Phase 1) and direct
payment from the petroleum companies to the Road Fund, without transiting through the ministry of
finance by the beginning of Phase 2. A contribution from the investment budget (orcamento geral do
estado), will be channeled through the Road Fund, for counterpart funds for rehabilitation of roads. The
program will also assist with establishing separate accounting and financial management systems for the
Road Fund, ANE and the provinces.
Fiscal impact: In the short term, the fiscal impact of expenditures on roads rehabilitation and periodic
roads maintenance will be negative. However, once construction is complete, these investments will lead
to higher economic activity, which will generate tax revenues, resulting in positive fiscal impacts.
Looking forward, the country is benefiting from HIPC debt relief, the economy is growing strongly and
tax revenues are increasing. This suggests that government will have capacity to meet its growing
obligations for road maintenance.
18



E3. Technical
The program aims at significantly reducing road maintenance unit costs through adaptation of advanced
technologies to Mozambican conditions. A variety of road construction materials will be tested for
durability, ease of application and overall cost-effectiveness. The standards and technical specifications
have been reviewed during pre-appraisal and appraisal and found acceptable.
Detailed designs have been completed for two of the fourteen roads to be financed by IDA. Detailed
engineering designs for seven roads will be prepared in 2001, and designs for the remaining roads will be
completed under retroactive financing.
Mozambique is still recovering from the civil war, and has limited resources for road works. Therefore,
the proposed civil works will establish appropriate road standards rather than upgrade the roads to the
regional Southern Africa Transport and Communications Commission (SATCC) standards. The
preliminary costs are estimated on the basis of costs of similar projects recently completed or still ongoing
in the country.
E4.  Institutional
a.     Executing agencies. The overall executing agency will be ANE. Implementation of the program
will be split between the central level and provincial and local authorities. At the central level, ANE's
directorate of national roads will manage operations for primary and secondary roads, and its directorate
of regional roads will advise and assist the local authorities and municipalities to implement the rural
roads projects. ANE (formerly DNEP) has successfully implemented ROCS I and ROCS2 projects and
has developed considerable expertise with local and international procurement procedures. Nevertheless,
assessment of procurement under the previous projects revealed the following weaknesses: (a) untimely
and incomplete procurement planning, (b) inadequate updating of the existing procurement
documentation, (c) lack of procurement expertise to handle complex situations such as settling of
contractor's claims, (d) insufficient control over the payment of contract price adjustments, and (e) delays
in completion of contacts compared with the agreed time schedules. To mitigate these weaknesses the
program will provide (at ANE and provincial levels): (a) capacity building, (b) technical assistance by
specialists, and (c) training of ANE engineers and technical staff. An action plan to include these
activities was agreed with ANE during appraisal. Procurement performance will be monitored (luring
project implementation. The financial management capacity of ANE, provincial offices, and the Road
Fund will also be strengthened through training and technical assistance.
The project builds on existing institutional arrangements and will contribute to a sustained effort of
institutional strengthening. The overa1l responsibility rests with ANE. New record keeping and
accounting systems will be installed changing the existing accounting basis from cash to accrual.
b.   Project management. During phase one, the ANE Board will be responsible for policy guidance
and overall program oversight, and will ensure coordination and cooperation between central, regional
and local authorities, government agencies involved with program implementation, and the private sector.
During phases two and three, the Road Board established under phase one will take over the role of
program oversight and coordination. Currently, the ANE Board is chaired by the president of ANE and
comprises officials of government agencies (including the ministry of finance), and representatives of the
private sector and academia.
E5.  Environmental            Environmental Category      A
E5.1  Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
19



An initial full environmental impact assessment (EIA) was completed for planned road works. The
investigation concluded that the planned road works will not have much if any impact on the
environment. None of the IDA-financed subprojects are located in sensitive ecological areas. The
subprojects do not require resettlement and no minorities are affected. In-migration (and associated
effects) was identified as a potential effect of providing improved transportation access. Specific
measures to mitigate its impact are included in the project. ANE developed and is implementing
measures to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS among workers and people living near project roads. The
overall conclusion is that the subprojects proposed for IDA funding can proceed with no significant
adverse environmental effects. The executive summary of the project's environmental impact assessment
appears in annex 11.
E5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP includes environmental management guidelines for practical use in the field. It is proposed that
ANE incorporates the environmental management guidelines in contract specifications for periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation projects. Their implementation would be part of the road works contracts.
Immediate enforcement would be the responsibility of the company supervising the contract. ANE's role
would be to audit the environmental management of projects and update the environmental management
guidelines when required.
The EMP also includes a plan for strengthening capacity for environmental management of the roads
sector. It is proposed that ANE develop its fledgling social and environmental unit (the Gender, Poverty
Alleviation, and Environment Unit) into a section with broader responsibility and expertise in
environmental management. This would require employment of a senior specialist in environmental
impact assessment as part of the unit. This person would also have a role in capacity development within
the unit. It is also proposed to provide training on environmental management to ANE staff in the
training, supervision, studies and projects departments and to provincial delegates. Support for master's
degree studies in environmental impact assessment for members of the ANE environment unit is also
proposed. A budget of US$600,000 is proposed for capacity building measures.
E5.3  For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA: The draft environmental impact
assessment for the project was completed in December 2000. Date of receipt of final draft: February
2001.
E5.4   How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening, and (b) draft
EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed EMP? Describe mechanisms of consultation that
were used and the groups that were consulted.
Consultation was undertaken with 21 government and nongovernmental organizations. Discussions were
also held with local villagers and chiefs during field inspections. Outputs from the consultations
included:
* Improved understanding of the roles of both government and non governmental organizations in
developing and maintaining road infrastructure
*  Knowledge of concerns about the adverse effects of road development
*  Knowledge of the perceived or measured benefits of road development
*  Access to background information relating to various aspects of the biological, physical and social
environments
*  Improved understanding of the importance and relevance of road infrastructure to local villagers.
20



E5.5   What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
ANE will be responsible for determining the level of environmental assessment required for all of ANE's
work and ensuring the work is completed to an appropriate standard.
As part of its routine supervision process and midterm review, the Bank will review performance of ANE
in applying the environmental assessment procedures, evaluate performance of executing agencies in
addressing environmental issues in design and implementation of subprojects, and agree on actions to be
taken to improve performance. This will involve visits by specialists to selected sites of subprojects for
first-hand assessment of implementing agencies' performance. They will assess the environmental and
social impacts of subprojects, both individually and cumulatively, and the adequacy of safeguard
procedures agreed for the project.
E6. Social
E6.1  Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Poverty, gender and HIV/AIDS are the three important social issues which the proposed program will
address. A social impact assessment of roads projects now under preparation will provide a baseline and
preliminary insights into how different types of roads affect poverty. Large scale poverty assessment data
from 1996-97 are available and provide some road-specific information. ANE will initiate interagency
collaboration to analyze road-specific elements of poverty to guide the programs' choices of road types,
siting and construction and maintenance techniques.
Mozambique has one of the highest HIV/AIDS incidence rates of in the world, with 15 percent of adults
ages 15-45 HIV positive. Improved transport provides opportunities both to spread the disease and to
introduce activities designed to reduce its incidence. The social impact assessment process under phase
one of the program will help in formulating the transport specific actions needed to stop the spread of
AIDS.
E6.2  Participatory approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The integrated roads sector strategy was developed through extensive consultations with all key
stakeholders, including representatives of central and local govemment agencies, the private sector,
nongovernmental organizations, women's groups, academic institutions, donors, and road users. Four
stakeholder workshops were held, two in Maputo and one each in Beira and Nampula. The workshops
discussed stakeholder needs and priorities and opinions of management of the sector. The stakeholders
named their top priorities as establishing and maintaining good north-south connectivity along the main
road, and focusing on roads promoting market access for agricultural producers. They also stated a strong
desire for government to adequately maintain roads. Experience with ROCS2 shows that it is important
to have broad consensus within society about choice of roads. Therefore, stakeholder consultations will
be held regularly throughout the years of program implementation to update the strategy and program to
reflect changes in national priorities.
Rural people, including women, will be involved in decisions on the use and maintenance of unclassified
roads. They will also have a role in constructing, upgrading, managing and maintaining rural roads.
Private sector entities will be consulted on ways to best involve them in road activities.
21



E6.3   How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs, academnic institutions, women's groups and the private sector were involved with consultations to
develop the integrated roads strategy. NGOs will be involved with implementing the communication
strategy to inform the public of program activities.
E6.4   What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The special social unit in ANE addressing gender, poverty alleviation and HIV/AIDS prevention will be
important in helping to assure that the project implements agreed measures addressing these issues, and in
developing new approaches for later phases of the program. This unit will build on the existing gender
unit that has helped increase the participation of women in constructing and maintaining feeder roads.
During preparation of phases two and three of the program, lessons from this experience will be
synthesized and extensively discussed with stakeholders, including the private sector, to ensure poverty,
gender, and HIV/AIDS are taken fully into account in program design and implementation.
E6.5   How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Monitoring indicators include measures of female participation in the roads work force and indictors of
awareness of how HIV/AIDS spreads and what can be done to prevent transniission.
E7. Safeguard policies
E7. 1  Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
X    Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                               Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                                 No
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                               No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                               No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                         No
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)                    No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                             No
E7.2  Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Project supervision and the midterm review will include compliance with the safeguard policies as a main
area of focus. Failure to comply could result in suspension of the project.
22



F:  Sustainability and Risks
Fl. Sustainability
The benefits of the program will be sustained through effective, transparent and accountable roads
management, and stable, timely, sufficient and secure funding for roads maintenance. The program
includes activities to strengthen management capacity at the central and local levels and to introduce
mechanisms to mobilize internally the required resources and properly manage these resources. T'o assure
sustainability of the program's impact on poverty, AIDS and gender, the program is establishing a
permanent unit within ANE to address and monitor these issues. This unit will coordinate with the social
units of government agencies and with nongovernmental dealing with issues, including UNAIDS.
F2. Critical risks
Risk                              Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Policy and institutional reforms   H       Annual and midtermn reviews will examine progress
not implemented as agreed.                    on implementing agreed reforms. Restructuring and
downsizing the project following the midterm review
may be considered if progress is inadequate.
Later phases of the APL will not be activated until
policy and institutional reforms are completed.
2. Financial resources to maintain    H       Annual and midterm reviews will examine
roads not provided.                           performance in financing the Road Fund.
Restructuring and downsizing the project following
the midterm review may be considered if adequate
funds are not provided in a timely manner.
Later phases of the APL will not be activated until
mechanisms for sustainable financing are put into
place and the Road Fund is performing adequately.
3. Institutional capacity inadequate  S       The program includes technical assistance and
to benefit from training and technical        training to increase capacity. ANE has restructured
assistance.                                   and now offers sufficiently high salaries to attract
people with good managerial and technical skills.
4. Transmission of HIV/AIDS           H       ANE will liaise closely with the ministry of transport
increases due to improved mobility.           to ensure that the routes it improves under the
project are covered by the ministry in its campaign
and efforts to prevent spread of HIV/AIDS.
23



Risk                              Risk R0atig           Risk Minimization Measure
From Components to Outputs
1. Limited institutional and          S       Institutional capacity will be strengthened through
operational resource capacity to              technical assistance and training at central and
implement the program.                        provincial levels.
2. Lack of familiarity with Bank      N       Training on Bank rules and procedures will be
rules on procurement, disbursement,           provided. Bank staff will be available to provide
accounting and auditing.                      guidance throughout program implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                   S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
F3. Possible controversial aspects
None.
G:    Main Credit Conditions
Prior to Negotiations:
The following conditions have been met in form and substance acceptable to IDA:
Draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Procurement Plan, in form and substance
acceptable to IDA
* Draft Letter of Development Program prepared for the road sector
* Financial Management and accounting interim procedures manual finalized and satisfactory
to IDA
Prior to Board Presentation:
The following conditions have been met in form and substance acceptable to IDA:
Transrmission to IDA of the Letter of Development Program prepared for the road sector,
acceptable to IDA.
Prior to Effectiveness:
*  Project Implementation Plan (PIP), in form and substance acceptable to IDA, adopted by the
Borrower and ANE.
*  Auditors for the project accounts and the Road Fund appointed in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines.
* Chief Financial Officer (CFO) appointed by ANE satisfactory to IDA.
* Counterpart Funds Account and Special Account opened. Initial deposit to Counterpart Funds
Account made.
* World Bank advised of authorized bank signatories/specimen signatures.
* Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ANE.
During project Implementation
* Financial Management Commnittee appointed.
* Chief Financial Internal Auditor appointed by ANE satisfactory to IDA.
24



*  A rolling three-year investment and maintenance program for the road sector will be prepared
by ANE and submitted annually by September 30 to IDA, for its review and comments.
*  The government will not undertake or order from any entity or contractor any public
investment for the road sector over US$5,000,000 equivalent, which is not part of thei
approved three-year investment and maintenance program.
*  The government will: (a) maintain the Road Fund under terms and conditions which will be
at all times satisfactory to IDA, (b) take measures required on its part to ensure that the level
of the road maintenance user fees to be channeled into the road fund are promptly acljusted
according to the agreed provision under the Letter of Program Development, and (c) ensure
that the proceeds of the road maintenance fund shall be used solely for the purposes of
defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for road maintenance and rehabilitation operations
in Mozambique.
H:  Readiness for Implementation
1. [xl (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities will be completed and ready
for the start of project implementation. All feasibility, institutional and a environmental and social
assessments have been completed. The project design reflects the findings of these studies.
[ 3 (b) Not applicable.
2. [ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3.     [ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
4. [XI The followinig items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I:   Compliance with Bank Policies
It. [X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
12. [ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Abdelmoula Ghzala            J  n River4on                 ,-/Philippe Le Houerou
Team Leader                  Acting Sector Manager             Acting Country Director
25



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project
Hierarchy of Objectives   Ky Perfor *ance Indicators      Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:           Sector/country reports:   (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
1. Create economic         Trends in coverage and       National statistics.     1. Government is
opportunities by improving    condition of road network.                         committed to
rural access to markets and                                                      implementing policy
services, improving traders'                                                     and institutional reforms
access to neighboring                                                            to ensure efficient and
countries and maintaining the                                                    effective sector
principal national and coastal                                                   management.
links to promote tourism and
national unity.
2. Increase human          1. Awareness of HIV/AIDS     1. Ministry of health and   1. Government is
capabilities by supporting  prevalence.                 UNAIDS statistics.       committed to
activities to prevent the  2 T       i r                                         implementing
spread of HIV/AIDS,        2. Trends im road accidents per 2. Government stat.stics   HIV/AIDS reduction
reducing injuries and deaths                                                     strategy and road safety
due to traffic accidents, and   3. Female participation in road  3. ANE statistics on  strategy and has
promoting gender equity by   works employment.          female employment.       capacity to do so. ANE
encouraging employment of                                                        is committed to raising
women in the roads sector.                                                       female employment and
there are sufficient
qualified candidates.
3. Improve governance and   1. Changes in proportion of    ANE statistics.
public administration by   roads works implemented by
fostering private sector   private sector.
participation in road      2. Progress in decentralizing   ANE statistics
rehabilitation and
maintenance, and by        road plannig and management
strengthening decentralized
road planning and
management processes.
26



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
Hierarchy of           Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
O bjiectives__               _  _  _   _  _  _   ___                                  _    _   _  _  _
Project Development    Outcome / Impact Indicators:  Project reports:            (from Objective to
Objective:                                                                       Goal)
1. Improve coverage and  1. Number of rural          Supervision reports every six  1. ANE has the
condition of road      communities newly connected    months outlining progress on   operational management
network.               to the road network.          key indicators, and actions to  capacity to successfully
2. Proportion of programmed    be taken to achieve goals.  execute the program.
works completed.             Reports of ANE and other
3. Percent increase in traffic    road implementing agencies.
counts traveled.
4. Percentage decline in freight
rates.
5. Share of roads in fair or good
condition to increase.
2. Improve road        1. Percentage decline in number Government statistics.    1. Government is
transport safety.      of acciderits per vehicle                                 committed to
kilometer.                                               strengthening and
2. Percent decline in fatalities                         enforcing road safety
and injuries from accidents per                          laws.
vehicle kilometer.                                       2. Police are actively
involved in enforcing
safety laws.
3. Strengthen capacity to  1. Agreed reforms         Final implementation        1. Government is
manage and administer   implemented.                 completion report.          committecd to reforms
the road sector.       2 Responsibilities transferred                            necessary for effective
2. Responslbllltles transroadsmanagment
to regional offices and local                            roads management.
authorities.                                             2. Institutions have
capacity to benefit from
training and technical
assistance.
3. Regional and local
authorities have the
capacity to implement
the program.
27



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
ffierarchy of          Key Perfonrance hIndicators   Monitoring ad EvC ct
Objectives
Project Development    Outcome 1 Impact Indicators:  Project reports:             (from Objective to
Objective:                                                                       Goal)
4. Establish financing    1. Road Fund finances routine   Comprehensive program  1. Ministry of Planning
mechanisms for         maintenance on an average of   review with agreement on   and Finance provides
sufficient, timely and  13,600 kilometers of roads   actions prior to release of  agreed resources to
stable flow of funds for   annually, during Phase 1.  financing for phase two of the  Road Fund:
roads maintenance.     2. Road Fund finances periodic  program.                  2. equivalent US$40
maintenance on an average of                             million in 2002,
1,900 kilometers of roads                                equivalent US$45
annually, during Phase 1.                                million in 2003,
3. Monthly transfers to the                              equivalent US$50
Road Fund.                                                million in 2004,
equivalent US$55
million in 2005.
3. equivalent US$100
million in 2010..
5. Ensure that roads   1. Proportion of men and      Reports of UNAIDS and other 1. Government and
strategy and           women aware of risk of AIDS.   donors on effectiveness of  ANE are committed to
implementation address  2. Number of women employed  AIDS prevention activities.   increasing female
HIV/AIDS and gender   at all levels and in all capacities  ANE reports           participation in the roads
concerns,               tallvl n  nalcpcte            N   eot                    sector.
concern.        min the road sector.
28



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
Hierarchy of Objectives  Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Output from each        Output Indicators:            Project reports:           (from Outputs to
component:                                                                       Objective)
A. Improved coverage    1. 313 kilometers of roads    Supervision reports every six  1. ANE and other road
and condition of road   rehabilitated (under IDA      months outlining progress on  implementing agencies
network.               financing).                    key indicators, and actions to  have the capacity to
2. 525 kilometers of roads    be taken to achieve goals.    implement the program.
treated with periodic maintenance Comprehensive program  2. Rural communities
(under IDA financing).        review with agreement on    maintain rural roads.
3. 412 kilometers of rural roads   actions prior to release of
upgraded or maint d (financing for later phases of
upgraded or maintained (under the APL.
IDA financing).
B. Sector management   1. Road Board independent of    Final implementation      1. Government is
more effective, efficient,  ANE.                      completion report.         committed to reforms.
accountable and
transparent.            2. Financing and allocation                              2. The Road Fund and
functions (under the Road Fund)                          roads implementing
separated from the management                            agencies have the
of contracts and supervision of                          financial and human
construction and maintenance.                            resources to fully benefit
from traini,ng.
3. Appropriate financial
management framework for
ANE, the Road Fund and
program established.
4. System of technical and
financial auditing and
performance monitoring
established.
5. Time taken for tendering and
contracting road works
6. Percentage of works
completed on time and within
budget.
C. Strategies formulated  1. Human resources development                         1. Government has the
and roads investments for strategy document completed.                           capacity to oversee and
phases two and three                                                             coordinate the studies
fully prepared.        2. Environmental impact                                   and preparatory
assessment completed.                                     actvites
activities.
3. Social assessment completed.
4. Poverty assessment completed.
5. Road safety strategy
completed.
29



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
flier0rchy of Objectives     Key Performance          Monitoring and          C ritclAmtns
Indicators              Evaluation
Project Components / Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
components:                component under IDA                                Outputs)
financing)
A. Civil works                    US$138.6          Supervision reports every    1. The ANE has the capacity
six months.               to implement the program.
1. Routine maintenance                              Comprehensive program
review.
2. Roads periodic                       38.1        Disbursement reports.
maintenance
3. Roads rehabilitation                 55.8
4. Rural Roads                          17.3
5. Emergency Works                       6.3
6. Road safety                           7.1
7. Engineering Services for              14.1
the roads sector
B. Policy Reforms and               US$16.8
Institutional strengthening
1.  Technical studies and                4.8
assistance to the road sector
2. Expertise and institutional           7.4
strengthening for ANE
3. Training                              2.7
4.  Support to program and                1.9
project management
5. ANE, DEPs & Road Fund
operating Expenses
C. Strategy and preparatory          US$6.7
activities for phase 2
1. Technical assistance for              0.6
strategy formulation
2. General and technical                 6.1
studies and expertise to the
road sector
30



Annex 1, Table A: Key performance indicators, Activities and Target dates
Indicator                                       Unit               Initial             2002            2003             2004             2005
Road Condition
Good                                    Kilometers               6,000            7,250            8,500          10,500           11,500
............  .................. .................. ................ . ....................... -........ . . . ... ............. ...    ...     ....   .........   .'......
Fair                                    Kilometers               7,500            6,750            5,500            4,000            3,500
Road Fund
.  Eq  US                                                                To be assessed at
Avg. Road maintenance user fee                     .                                                         9.5U
Cents                                                                    mid-term review
.                                                                  ... .... ... ... ... ................... ...................... . ......................... ...... . ..... ................... ...... .; .   .. ....   .     ....  
Revenues from Road                              Eq. US$                  28.72                37              41               46               51
Maintenance user fee (rounded)                  millions
Counterpart Revenues (from                      Eq. US$
Investment Budget) (rounded)                    millions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...., .                       .. .    .. . . ... . . .    . ..  . . .   . . .   . . . .   .........  .. .........    .-.    ......   .....   ..     ..  .   .    .    ..    .    .    .    .-"-- '
Total Government allocation to    Eq. US$                                                    40               45               50               55
Road Fund (rounded)                             millions
Kilometers of road works executed
Routine maintenance                             Kms                   10,0003           12,000           12,500           13,500          14,000
Periodic maintenance                            Kms                     1,004             1,350           1,800            1,900            1,900
Expenditures on R a   W r ks ................... .... ..... .... _  . .............. . -  ... . ' ' - ' ' ' .''''''''''''''''-'''''-''-  .. .....
Routine maintenance                            Eq.US$M                        9                   11           12              12               13
Periodic maintenance                            Eq. US$ M                    35              43             - 55               57               55
2Amounts that should be transferred by MPF according to road user maintenance charges and estimated
consumption levels for 2001.
3 Estimate of routine maintenance planned for 2001
4 Estimate of periodic maintenance planned for 2001
31



* Separation of the Road Fund    * Decree creating the Road Fund as a legal entity  December 2002
from ANE completed.              passed.
* National Roads Board
* Roads Boards Operational       * ANE Board                                   June 2003
* Road Fund Boards
Percent of jobs         Consult-    Civil
completed:               ancies     works
On time                   85%        80%      By mid-term
Within budget             80%        75%      review
To specifications         80%        80%
* Improvements in procurement   Without payment delays    100%       100%
and delivery of works and
services                      Percent of jobs          Consult-    Civil
completed:               ancies     works
On time                   95%        90%
December 2004
Within budget             90%        85%
To specifications         90%        90%
Without payment delays    100%      100%
* Design and implement          * System designed                              31/03/02
contractor and consultant
performance rating system           _ 100% of procurements monitored by system  31/12/04
l  Contract payments             * Payments as per individual contracts        mid-term review
32



Annex 2: Project Description
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project.
Component A: Civil works US$138.6 million
Component A will comprise seven subcomponents: (1) roads routine maintenance, (2) roads periodic
maintenance, (3) roads rehabilitation, (4) rural roads civil works, (5) emergency works, (6) road safety,
and (7) engineering services for road works. No realignment of roads is envisaged and therefore no land
acquisition is anticipated. The project will improve stormwater drainage to reduce severe erosion. All
ANE future contracts in rural areas will be structured to encourage employment of local residents in the
rehabilitation works. Tables A2. 1 shows works to be financed by all participants in the program. Table
A2.3 shows roads and activities to be financed by IDA. Table A2.4 shows activities for which financing
is still being sought. Detailed descriptions of activities are given only for IDA-financed subcomponents.
1. Roads routine maintenance
For Unpaved Roads, activities will involve spot re-gravelling, drainage and verge maintenance, dragging,
shallow blading and dust control
For Paved Roads, activities will involve localized repairs (typically less than 150m in continuous length)
of pavement and shoulder defects, and regular maintenance of road drainage, side slopes, verges and
furniture.
This subcomponent will be financed entirely under the Road Fund.
2. Roads periodic maintenance works
The work will involve full-width resurfacing or treatment of the existing pavement or roadway(inclusive
of minor shape correction, surface patching or restoration of skid resistance) to maintain surface
characteristics and structural integrity for continued serviceability; localized repairs and reconstruction
(typically less than 10% of total project length in sections of less than 250m in continuous length);
limited geometric improvements related enhancement of traffic capacity speed and safety but not
structural strengthening; maintenance and/or provision of vehicle load control facilities.
Specific actions include slurry seals, fog sprays, enrichment treatments, surface treatments (double or
single); friction courses; thin asphalt surfacing typically 30mm or less in thickness and localised base
reconstruction, vegetation control, repainting road markings, repairing and replacing road signs; weigh
bridge facilities.
Road 3 ENI Muxungue-Inchope
This 145 kilometer section of ENI reaches at Inchope, the important Beira corridor, which connects the
city and port of Beira to Zimbabwe. It crosses an area with good agricultural potential but which is
presently used for hard wood harvesting and subsistence farming. This road underwent pothole patching
and bitumninous surface treatment during the mid to late 1990's. That treatment did not however address
the problems of structural capacity, road surface quality, carriage way width or shoulder structure. The
project will address these problems.
33



Road 43 EN1 Marracuene-Manhi,a
This second section of ENI to be maintained under the project is 48 kilometers long. The road runs
across an area of extensive subsistence agriculture which is rapidly developing following the end of
hostilities and demining of the area. It also serves a large and newly rehabilitated sugar cane producing
and processing zone. This section of road was rehabilitated during the early 1990s with a mixture of
asphalt and double bituminous surface treatment; lanes were partially widened. The increase in traffic
and degradation of the unsurfaced shoulders have led to the need for reengineering of this section to
upgrade it to the standard necessary to carry the present and future traffic volumes safely.
Road 1 EN1 Incoluane-Zandamela
This 159 kilometer section of ENI starts approximately 140 kilometers north of Maputo. It crosses the
flood plains of both the Incomati and Limpopo rivers and was recently extensively damaged during the
February 2000 floods. In the Incomati river flood plain, there are extensive sugar cane plantations and
processing facilities that have also recently been rehabilitated. In the Limpopo river flood plain,
agriculture is in general limited to subsistence farming, although cattle farming is being introduced and
herds are growing steadily. The capital city of Gaza province, Xai Xai, which is approximately 200
kilometers north of Maputo is served by this road. This road was given a bituminous surface treatment
during the mid 1990's but no structural upgrading, rehabilitation or widening was undertaken. Annual
average daily traffic is about 1,000 vehicles. The extensive 2000 flood damage to roads in the two major
river flood plains has been addressed under separate emergency works contracts.
Road 2 EN 1 Zandamela-Maxixe
This 173 kilometer section of the ENI passes through both Gaza and Inhambane provinces and provides
access to Inhambane, the provincial capital and only port along the 1,200 kilometer coastline between
Maputo and Beira. During the early 1990s this section underwent an emergency pothole patching and
resealing treatment. However, the road remains in very rough condition and has only one lane of 6 meter
width, making it dangerous for the average annual traffic of 1,000 vehicles per day using the road. Storm
water erosion is not a major problem for most of this road. However, there are some specific areas,
including the town of Maxixe, where the road has suffered extensive damage and drainage will be needed.
The area served by this road section is a rich agricultural zone, producing relatively large volumes of
coconuts, oranges, lemons and cashew nuts. It also produces chilies, paw paws and cassava in smaller
volumes.
3. Roads Rehabilitation works
The work will involve full-width, full-length surfacing with strengthening and shape correction of
existing pavement or roadway (inclusive of repair of minor drainage structures) to provide improved
structural strength and integrity required for continued serviceability; geometric improvements related to
width, curvature of gradient of roadway, pavement, shoulders or structures, to enhance traffic capacity,
speed or safety; maintenance and/or provision of vehicle load control facilities.
Specific actions will include full base reconstruction, asphalt strengthening overlays, selective deep
patching and overlays, granular base overlay and surfacing, surface treatment with major shape
correction, recycling of one or more pavement layers, vegetation control, repainting road markings,
repairing and replacing road signs; weigh bridge facilities.
This subcomponent will be financed jointly by the funding agencies and GOM (counterpart funds made
available to the Road Fund from the Investment Budget). The list below presents the details of the roads
under IDA financing (with 5% counterpart funds from GOM channeled through the Road Fund).
34



Road 42 EN 1 Maputo-Marracuene
The project will maintain the first 29.7 kilometer section of ENI. This section carries the heaviest traffic
in the entire national road network. Traffic, however, tails off quite significantly once outside of the
Maputo metropolitan area (with annual average daily traffic dropping from 16,000 to about 5,000 vehicles
per day). The road received a mixture of asphalt and double bituminous surface treatment during the late
1980s under a periodic maintenance contract. The dramatic increase in traffic following the signing of
the peace agreement has resulted in the need for further periodic maintenance and road widening with the
addition of surfaced shoulders. Special attention will be given to storm water drainage, particularly in the
urban areas and in the areas identified as suitable for future industrial and domestic development.
Road 15 ENI Maxixe-Cr. ER520/EN1
The project will rehabilitate a 123 kilometer section of ENI. The road underwent emergency pothole
patching and a single bituminous surface treatment in the early 1990's. The road pavement is in very poor
condition with high roughness. It has failed structurally in a number of places. The failures appear to be
due to the ingress of water either through the surface of the road or via the base course in poorly drained
areas. Coconut production is an important econornic activity in the area along the first 70 kilometer of the
road, up to Massinga. Population density is high. Thereafter the agriculture activities are more limited,
centered around subsistence farming. The planned rehabilitation is intended to improve road quality,
increase lane width, provide shoulders, and supply adequate storm water drainage to avoid future erosion.
Road 29.1 ENI Cr. ER520tENI-Vilanculos
This 109 kilometer section of road in the province of Inhambane is a continuation of EN1 up to the
village of Vilanculos. The road underwent emergency pothole patching and bituminous surface treatment
in the mid 1990's. It crosses fairly flat terrain, which experiences regular floods. The wetting and drying
of the road structure combined with the narrow road width and relatively high percentage of heavy
vehicles traveling on it has resulted in structural failures of the road. The project will rehabilitate the road
by increasing the number of drainage structures, strengthening the pavement, widening the carriage way
and providing shoulders. Vilanculos has a very small fishing port which serves the local population and
provides sea access to the nearby islands. Because of the natural beauty of the islands, this area already
attracts a number of tourists. There is potential for further development of tourism.
Road 44 ENI Manhi a-jncoluane
This is section of road is 52 kilometers long. It runs up to the edge of the Incomati river flood plain. It
received an bituminous surface treatment during the mid-1990s, but no structural upgrading, rehabilitation
or widening were undertaken. Annual average daily traffic is 2,500 vehicles per day. Under the project,
the road will receive periodic maintenance treatment, the carriage way will be widened and the shoulders
surfaced. This section of road traverses some of the most rolling terrain present during the first 400
kilometers of ENI and accordingly suffers from storm water related erosion problems. This area has
attracted a number of flood refugees during 2000, who left the low lying areas for safety. Population
growth along this section has led to large increases in subsistence farming.
4. Rural roads civil works (rehabilitation)
This subcomponent will involve major re-gravelling and ripping, re-compaction and drainage;
rehabilitation also could include localized geometric improvement. In certain cases the subcomponent
will upgrade the earth road to a gravel standard.
35



Specific actions include improve structural strength, shape, drainage, ride quality and performance, minor
improvement to geometric and structural standards.
Road 10 ER 405 Fr.Maputo-Chokwe
This gravel road section is 31 kilometers long and 6 meters wide. It carries an annual average of about 40
vehicles per day, and is badly degraded. This tertiary road is located in a highly populated area of Gaza
Province where the average population density is very high at 53 people per square kilometer. This road
links two major agricultural areas in Mozambique-the sugar producing region along the Incomati river
in the south and the grain producing areas of Limpopo in the north. From a network point of view, this
road has a strategic value, since it is part of the bypass of Maputo and Xai-Xai, linking the South Africa
border crossing at Ressano Garcia with EN1 northeast of Xai-Xai. As the area around Maputo and
Matola becomes increasingly congested, the bypass will permit northbound traffic from the South African
border to avoid the congestion and travel directly to Inhambane Province and to points north. The road
runs over fair subgrade materials made up of silty sands. Gravel wearing course sources can only be
found in the southeastern end of the road. The nearest stone sources are in Boane , about 250 kilometer
south, and in Massingir, 135 kilometer north.
Road 37 EN221 Bene-Ffngoe
This secondary gravel road section is 114 kilometers long and 6 meters wide. It carries an annual average
of about 180 vehicles per day, and is becoming seriously damaged. It is in Tete Province in an area where
the average population density is low at 5 people per square kilometer. The road passes through a
reasonably good agricultural area, currently producing small maize surpluses. This region has high
potential for ecotourism, but is currently isolated and will benefit economically from access to an
improved road. Ffngoe is the capital of the Maravia District, so the road will improve access to
government services. The nearest stone source is 75 kilometer to the south along the main road to Tete
city. However, there are other rock formations in the area which could provide suitable aggregate.
Road 41 ER 572 MecoDta-Corrane
This gravel road section is 68 kilometers long and 6-7 meters wide. It carries on average 175 vehicles a
day, and is badly degraded. This secondary road is located in Nampula Province where the population
density averages 40 people per square kilometer, compared with the national average of 22 people per
square kilometer. The road's zone of influence is agriculturally rich, producing cashew nuts, cotton and
semi precious timber. Improving this road will give Corrane and Nametil better access to the national
road EN8, the railway line at Namialo and the deep sea port of Nacala. The road runs through sandy to
silty sand subgrades. Gravel meeting the needed specifications for wear is not easily available in the
immediate vicinity. The closest stone source for construction is Namialo 50 kilometer to the north.
Road 8 EN 239 Nametil-Cr EN 236/260
This secondary gravel road section is 76 kilometers long and 6 meters wide. It carries an annual average
of about 230 vehicles per day, and is presently badly degraded. It is located in a highly populated area of
Nampula Province where the average population density is 66 people per square kilometer. The road is a
link connecting the provincial capital Nampula, and Nametil to the coastal town of Angoche-once an
important fishing port, planned for rehabilitation. It crosses a very important agricultural area producing
cashew nuts, cotton, tobacco and coffee. The road runs over good to fair subgrade materials made up of
silty sands. No gravels are available for wearing course and the closest stone source is in Namialo, a
distance of about 150 kilometers.
36



Road 14 ER 555 Estima-Magoe
This tertiary gravel road section is 123 kilometers long and 6 meters wide. It carries an annual average of
about 60 vehicles per day, and is badly degraded. It is in Tete Province in an area with low population
density of 8 people per square kilometer. The road connects the main fishing spots in the Cahora Bassa
lake (such as Chicoa) to Tete, the capital of the province. Semi-industrial or artisanal fishing is the main
source of income in this region. The road also helps connect Estima and further north Songo (where the
hydroelectrical dam is) to Zimbabwe via Mocumbura. Improving the road, which connects to an isolated
district capital, Magoe, will help rural people benefit from social services. This road runs over very good
silty to sandy gravel subgrades with good wearing course material available. No stone sources are
available at present but there is enough rock in the area from which suitable material can be obtained.
5. Emergency works
The project will finance emergency repair works to roads and bridges following heavy rains and flooding.
6. Road safety
Road safety program
The program will include, but not be limited to, the following:
*  Creation of pedestrian crossings
-  Placement of rumble strips at pedestrian crossings
*  Erection of traffic signs at pedestrian crossings
e  Erection of speed limit signs
- Installation of other warning signs
*  Marking of roads.
The road safety program will be conducted in close coordination with all the stakeholders, including the
ministry of transport, police, municipal authorities, health workers, educators and so on.
Construction of vehicles inspection centers
The new road code requires each vehicle to go through regular inspections. The Ministry of
Transportation and Communications is preparing the regulation that will dictate the frequency. Vehicle
inspection will be carried out by private companies that will be selected through national bidding. In
order to provide a quality check of private inspections and to have the capability of carrying out their own
inspections when the need arises, the ministry will equip two small centers with the minimum required
equipment.
7. Engineering services for the road sector
These will include the preparation of detailed design and tender documents and supervision of works.
Component B: Institutional strengthening and policy reforms:US$16.8 million
This component will comprise:
* Establishment of an institutional framework for the sector, which ensures effective, transparent and
accountable roads management and administration. This will include clear separation of the
financing and allocation functions (under the Road Fund) from the management of contracts and
37



supervision of construction and maintenance, and creation of a Road Board responsible for
overseeing and monitoring performance in the overall sector. ANE and the Road Fund will be
supported and strengthened in their respective roles.
*  Establishment of the most appropriate financial management framework for ANE, the Road Fund and
program and projects management, to ensure the sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds to
cover roads maintenance needs.
*  Establishment of a system of technical and financial auditing and performance monitoring for ANE
and the Road Fund.
*  Preparation and implementation of a strategy for human resources development, focusing on
procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial management and project management in
government road management institutions.
*  Strengthening of the program started under ROCS2 to help prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS.
*  Implementation of road safety measures, including improved collection of traffic accident statistics
for identification of black spots, safety audits on the major trunk roads, incorporation of additional
safety features and requirements in road design, and installation and maintenance of road structures
designed for safety, such as guard rails.
*  Promotion of local contractors through training (including on labor-based methods) and other
activities.
*  Strengthening of the unit at ANE responsible for addressing issues of AIDS, poverty alleviation and
gender. A socioeconomic impact assessment of ROCS2 currently underway will provide the baseline
data against which future progress can be measured.
Component C: Strategy and preparatory activities for phase 2: US$6.7million
This component will comprise:
*  Revisions and updating of the national integrated road sector strategy to reflect emerging priorities
identified during ongoing stakeholder consultations.
-  Preparation of environmental impact assessment for phase two.
*  Preparation of social impact assessments for phase two investments. The social impact assessments
will include baseline information for social monitoring, a participatory gender assessment,
consultations on HIV/AIDS and a social assessment of HIV/AIDS.
*  Preparation of socioeconomic impact assessments of roads works for phase two investments.
*  Detailed design for roads of phase two investment.
38



Triggers for Phases two and three of the Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance
Program
Phases two and three of the program will be appraised to evaluate their technical, economic, financial,
environmental and social feasibility, following criteria satisfactory to IDA and reflecting experience
gained during implementation of the previous phase. This approach of learning by doing will allow for
continuous adjustment as the government's reform program advances.
In order to help incorporate adjustments in project design, facilitate the appraisal process of each new
phase, and determine its readiness for integration into the program, triggers have been identified. They
will be measured and assessed as part of the program's monitoring and evaluation system. They will be
reviewed during appraisal of each phase to confirm their validity.
Specific triggers, actions by which to measure satisfaction, target dates and responsible agencies are listed
in the table below.
Trigger                  Specific action             Date         Responsible agency
Phase I
Agreed phase one road works    Activities defined in the  June 2005         ANE
substantially completed.     credit agreement
substantially completed
Separation of the Road Fund  Decree creating the Road   June 2004           Government
from ANE completed.          Fund as a legal entity passed.
Road Board functioning       Board meets regularly      June 2004           Road Board
Financial management of ANE   Road Fund adopts a rolling                    ANE and Road Fund
and the Road Fund satisfactory.  three year maintenance plan
and ANE implements it
satisfactorily. Targets for
condition of the road network
to be verified by independent
assessment. Semi annual and
annual financial (up to the
MTR) and periodic technical
audits of Road Fund. Annual
financial audits of ANE and
periodic technical audits as
may be required.
Timely provision of agreed   MPF to channel to Road     Continuous          Ministry of finance
level of funds to the Road Fund   Fund: equivalent US$40  monitoring
and for counterpart funds.   million in 2002, equivalent
US$45 million in 2003,
equivalent US$50 mnillion in
2004, equivalent US$55
million in 2005.
Commitment to regular        Audits carried out         Annually (or semi    ANE and Road Fund
technical and financial audits                          annually for the
Road Fund as
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   needed)
39



Trigger                   Specific action             Date          Responsible agency
Satisfactory implementation of   Activities defined in the  June 2005         ANE
the road safety plan.         credit agreement
substantially completed.
Satisfactory implementation of   Activities defined in the  June 2005         ANE
agreed HIV/AIDS prevention    credit agreement
measures in relation to road  substantially completed
sector.
All preparatory activities have    * Engineering designs and    December 2004  ANE
been satisfactorily completed.  tender documents for first
set of phase two
investments have been
completed
* Environmental impact      December 2004       ANE
assessment and social
impact assessment for
phase two investments
have been completed.
40



Phase 2
Agreed phase two road works    Activities defined in the  June 2008           ANE
substantially completed.      credit agreement
substantially completed.
Financial management of ANE   Road Fund adopts a rolling    June 2007         ANE and Road Fund
and the Road Fund satisfactory.  three year maintenance plan
and ANE implements it
satisfactorily. Targets for
condition of the road network
to be verified by independent
assessment.
Timely provision of agreed    The agreed level of funding    Continuous       Ministry of Finance
level of funds to the Road Fund  for the Road Fund and for  monitoring       (direct transfer from
and for counterpart funds.    counterpart                                     oil companies to
funds(provisionally                             Road Fund account)
estimated, based on technical
maintenance estimate):
US$62.5 million in 2006,
equivalent US$70 million
in 2007, equivalent
US$77.5 million in 2008.
Implementation of road safety    Activities defined in the  June 2008         ANE
plan satisfactory.            credit agreement
substantially completed.
Satisfactory implementation of   Activities defined in the  June 2008         ANE
agreed HIV/AIDS prevention    credit agreement
measures.                     substantially completed.
Commitment to regular         Activities defined in the   June 2008           ANE
technical and financial audits    credit agreement
made.                         substantially completed.
All preparatory activities have    * Engineering designs and    December 2007  ANE
been satisfactorily completed.  tender documents for first
set of phase two
investments have been
completed
* Environmental impact      December 2007       ANE
assessment and social
impact assessment for
phase two investments
have been completed.
41



Table A2.1: APL- Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program- 2001-2011
ProJectC~stb  Co   ce:~h~i~dI~ 1hl~1    A~                 ~unt~ *   tAmG    ~                     Aolt   %~  Ain~,iM 
A. Roads & Bridges works
1. Routine Maintenance                                                50.3   32%      48.0   30%      60.0  38%        158    9%
2. Periodic Maintenance                                              224.1   34%     190.0  29%       240.0  37%       654   38%
3. Rehabilitation                                                    240.0   60%      75.0   19%       85.0  21%       400   24%
4. Rural Roads & Bridges                                              69.0   35%      60.0   30%       70.0  35%       199   12%
5. Emergency Works                                                     11.0   33%     10.0  30%        12.0  36%        33    2%
6. Road Safety                                                        10.9   35%      10.0  32%        10.0  32%        31    2%
7. Engineering Services for the Road Sector                           45.9   45%      23.5   23%       33.5   33%      103    6%
Subtotal Roads & Bridges works                                        651.1   41%    416.5  26%    510.5  32%    1,578   93%
B. Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening
1. Technical Studies & Assistance to the Road Sector                  11.5   51%       6.0  27%        5.0  22%         22    1%
2. Expertise & Institutional Strengthening of ANE                     11.6   51%       6.0   27%        5.0  22%        23    1%
3. Training                                                            5.2   47%       3.0  27%         3.0  27%        11    1%
4. Support to Program & Project Management                             1.9   38%       1.5  31%         1.5  31%         5    0%
5. ANE, DEPs & Road Fund Operating Expenses                           10.3   35%       9.0   31%       10.0  34%        29    2%
Subtotal Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening                   40.5   45%     25.5  28%        24.5  27%         91    5%
C. Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2 and 3
1. Assistance for Strategy formulation                                 0.6   23%       1.0  38%         1.0  38%         3    0%
2. General and Technical Studies & Expertise to the Road Sector       11.4   40%       9.9   34%        7.5  26%        29    2%
Subtotal Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2 and 3    12.0   38%      10.9  35%        8.5  27%         31    2%
Total Project Costs                                                   703.6  41%        453   27%       544   32%    1,700  100%
IDA Financing                                                        162.0  23%       135   30%        135   25%       432   25%
Donors'contribution to routine maintenance                              6%              0%               0%1
Donors'contribution to periodic maintenance                            41%             25%             15%
42



Table A2.2: APL-Phase 1 (APL-1) Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program- 2001-2005
v-.pme .                                                                     -     -                 " :'...
NewJ                ROD                 -nu                   ~           (-  .ft/PM     v       !S -l~                         I___.__-
A. Projects on-going financed
80   EN I Gorongosa - Caia                 P            2401  PA        Rehab.J         45.30      11.33   85**      USAID          94%        Sofala         38         27          7
81   EN 242 Perba - Montepuez              S            200   PA        Rehab./         29.10       7.76   380        ADB           90%      C. Delgado      71           6         25
203  Rural Roads (Tete/Manica)              T            140    U        Rehab./          4.04       4.04            DANIDA         100%    Tete/Manica       37          29         12
204  Rural Roads (Niassa and Maputo)        T           445    U         Rehab./          8.60       8.60             IFAD          100%    Niass/Maput       39          22         12
Subtotal A.                                     105 02                             87.03     31.72
B. Projects financed under bidding
16   EN I Rio Save -Muxungue               P            107   PA         Rehab./         5.50       2.44   215         EU          100%        Sofala        43          21         14
83   EN 8 Narpula - Nacala                 P            199   PA         Rehab./         22.00     19.25   669         EU          100%       Nampula         78          2         29
84   EN 102 Vanduzi-Changara               P            232   PA         Rehab./         19.60     13.07   435        ADB           90%        Manica         56          13        14
85   EN 206 Chissano - Chibuto             S             39    U         Rehab./          7.00      4.90  192**    BADEA            80%         Gaza         65           9         41
216  Rural Roads (Zambezia)                 T           452    U         Rehab./         12.20       9.90              KFW          100%      Zambezia        39          24         12
201  14 Bridges                                                          Rehab./         14.00      14.00              JICA         100%       Various        45          20         12
90    N lI lnchope - Gorongosa             P             74   PA         Rehab./          9.40      6.89    184      USAID          94%        Sofala         51          17        21
Subtotal B.                                      1103                              89.70     70.45
C. Projects with secure financing                         _
91   EN 7/104/232 Narnacurra - Rio Ugonha  P/S          317  PA/U        Rehab./         40.00     40.00    124        EU          100%       Zambezia        58          1 1        12
7   EN 223 Cr.EN103 - Calotm/u             S            127   PA        Rehab./         18.00      18.00  265**       ADB          90%          Tete         58          10         17
93   EN 231 Narnpevo - Gurue               S            127   PA         Rehab./         12.26     12.26    39         IDB          80%       Zambe'zia       87          1         61
94   EN 242 Litunde - Marrupa - Fr. C. Delgad(    S     322    U         Rehab./         20.00     20.00    57        SIDA         100%        Niassa        46           19         14
23   EN 256/205 Chokwe - Lagoa Nova        S            128   PA         Rehab./          7.00      7.00    140       OPEC          80%         Gaza          51          16        17
212  RuralRoads (National)                  T             80    U        Rehab./          1.60       1.60           DFID[SIDA       100%       National       39          24         12
213  Rural Bridge Guija                    T                    U        Rehab./         10.00      10.00              NdF          80%                       50          18         12
207  Rural Roads (Cabo Delgado)             T           3251   U         Rehab./          4.39       4.39            NORAD          100%      C. Delgado      37          28         12
208  Rural Roads (Niassa)                   T            126    U        Rehab./           1.20      1.20             IRISH         100%        Niassa        39          22         12
210  Rural Roads (Nampula e Zarnb6zia)      T            87    U         Rehab./           1.72      1.72             USAID         100%      Namp/Zamb       37          31         12
215  District Roads (Nampula)               T                   U        Rehab./          0.54       0.54            UNCDF          100%       Nampula        37          31         12
211  Rural Bridges (Zambezia)    _T                            U         Rehab./          4.45       4.45               EU          100%       Zambezia       39          24         12
Subtotal C                                      1 639  _                          121.15    121.15
Trotal  1.__                                             __  _
P: Priniaiy; S: Secondary; T: Tertiary; PA: Paved; U: Unpaved                  *excluding taxes and duties    ** including average estimated generated traffic
43



11. Roads proposed to be financed by IDA
A. Road Rehabilitation works
42   EN I Maputo - Maracuene            P           29.7 Rehab./ 4171To 15470 7.2 to 8.    AC    C Overla    6.587        277,246    Maputo         74         4        64%
15  EN I Maxixe - Cr. ER520/ENI         P           123 RehabJ  690 TO 1580    6.0         AC       AC        16.276      165,000   Inhambane      68          7       32%
29.1  EN I Cr. EN lER520 - Vilanculos    P           109 Rehab./  333 TO 627      6.0       AC        AC       10.512      120,000   Inhambane      56          12      14%
44  EN 1 Manhica - Incoluane            P           51.6 Rehab./ 1262 To 2296    7.5      DBST  AC/DBS'   10.271          250,000    Maputo        54          14       16%
Sub-Total A.                                   313                                                         43.646                                                 33%
B. Road Periodic Maintenance works
3   EN I Muxungue - Inchope             P           145   PM      147 TO 416     7.0    AC/DBST  SBST         8.664       75,000    ofala/Manica                       14%
43   EN I Maracuene - Manhica           P            48   PM    2058 To 2177  7.2 to 8.0    AC    kC Overla   4.608       120,000    Maputo                             15%
I   EN I Incoluane - Zandamela         P            159   PM     463 TO 1369  7.0 to 7.5    AC     SBST       8.202      64,500       Gaza                             21%
2   EN I Zandamela - Maxixe             P           173   PM     654 TO 1376  5.8 to 7.0    AC     SBST       8.838       64,500    Inhambane                          17%
Sub-Total B.                                   525                                                         30.312                                                 17%
C. Rural Roads civil works
10  ER 405 Fr.Maputo - Chokwe           T            31 Rehab./       98         6.0     Gravel   Gravel      0.489       19,800      Gaza         75          3       58%
37  EN221 Bene-Fingoe                   S           114 Rehab./       28      6.0 To 6.2  Gravel   Gravel    4.476        49,122     Nampula       37         29        17%
41   ER572 Meconta Corrane             S/T           68 Rehab./  100 To 190   6.0 to 7.0   Gravel   Gravel    2.735       50,281     Nampula       53          15       30%
8   EN 239 Nametil - Cr.EN239/260       S            76 Rehab./  217 to 239      6.0   iravel/Ear  Gravel     3.947      65,000     Nampula        65          8       43%
14  ER555 Estima Magoe                  T           123 Rehab.!       62         6.0      Earth    Gravel      1.949      19,800      Tete         72          5       47%
Sub-Total C.                                   412                                                         13.596                                                 32%
TOTAL.II                          1,250                                                         87.554                                                 28%
P: Primary; S: Secondary; T: Tertiary; PA: Paved; U: Unpaved
(Km)                         US$ nillion
Total APL 1                      5,017                            333
44



Table A2.3: (APL-1) Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program- 2001-2005
Roads under IDA financing
LenKgth              TRAehah  - AF  .f4                            - C                                     PROVINCE
No          to US$ numm            P/S/T  - P0                                            SU        . I;PE  I- P   .  CONSRUCTnON CO                   _
ROAD             .kiny .              *                        iP   ___X .-    N. WOKS .VISI PINANCA EONOMIC PlP KM
42  EN I Maputo - Maracuene          P        29.7  Rehab./   4171To 15470  7.2 To 8.0    AC    kC Overla  4 To 5    8.234         6.587      277,246     Maputo
15  EN 1 Maxixe - Cr. ER520/ENI      P         123  Rehab./   690 To 1580        6.0       AC        AC      5 To 8    20.345      16.276     165,000   Inhambane
29.1 EN 1 Cr. EN1/ER520 - Vilancu     P         109  Rehab./    333 To 627        6.0       AC        AC      6 To 7    13.140     10.512      120,000   Inhambane
44  EN I Manhica - Incoluane         P        51.6  Rehab./   1262 To 2296       7.5      DBST  AC/DBST    4           12.839      10.271     250,000     Maputo
Sub-Total A.                              313                                                                       54.558      43.646  174.138
B. Road Periodic Maintenance works
3  EN I Muxungue - Inchope           P        145    PM         147 To 416       7.0    AC/DBST  SBST    5 To 7    10.830         8.664      75,000   Sofala/Manica
43  EN I Maracuene - Manhica         P          48    PM        2058 To 2177  7.2 To 8.0    AC    kC Overla    3        5.760      4.608      120.000     Maputo
I  EN I Incoluane - Zandamela        P        159    PM         463 To 1369   7.0 To 7.5    AC     SBST    4 To 6    10.253       8.202      64,500       Gaza
2   EN I Zandamela - Maxixe          P        173    PM         654 To 1376   5.8 To 7.0    AC     SBST    4 To 8    11.048        8.838     64,500    Inhambane
Sub-Total B.                              525                                                                       37.890      30.312  72.171
C. Rurl Roads civil works
10  ER 405 Fr.Maputo - Chokwe        T          31  Rehab./         98           6.0      Gravel   Gravel      12      0.611       0.489      19,800       Gaza
37  EN221 Bene-Fingoe                 S        114  Rehab.J          28       6.0 To 6.2  Gravel   Gravel  8 To 10    5.595        4.476      49,122     Nampula
41  ER572 Meconta Corrane            S/T        68  Rehab./    100 To 190   6.0 To 7,0  Gravel   Gravel        13       3.419      2.735      50,281      Nampula
8  EN 239 Natmedl - Cr.EN239/26      S         76  Rehab./    217 To 239         6.0   3raveVEart  Gravel  11 To 14   4.934        3.947     65,000      Nampula
14  ER555 Estima Magoe               T         123  Rehab./         62           6.0      Earth    Gravel    10        2.436       1.949      19,800       Tete
Sub-Total C.                              412                                                                       16.995      13.596  41.250
TOTAJ,                        1,250                                                                      109.443      87.554
45



Table A2.4: APL-Phase 1 (APL-1)
Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program- 2001-2005
Pluri-annual rolling maintenance program- Main Features
The pluri-annual maintenance program was developed based on the following principles, assumptions, and initial
conditions:
*  The entire "maintainable" network is subject to annual maintenance intervention (routine or periodic
maintenance).
* The maintainable network is defined as those roads (links) in "good" or "fair" condition. Roads in "poor"
condition are subject to rehabilitation according to the investment program, although they may be subject to
spot treatment to keep them traversable. Roads that are "intraversable" are usually the object of special
treatment such as bridge repair or drainage-related improvements on limited road segments and judgments
regarding maintenance of the road surface must be made on a case by case basis.
* The initial road condition data is taken from HNMS:
Surface    Good      Fair       Poor       Total
Paved     38%        40%        22%         100%
Unpaved   21%        30%        49%        100%
Total     25%        32%        43%        100%
* The rehabilitation schedule is derived from the investment plan and smoothed to assume a uniform rate of
work on each road class over the ten year plan. It is assumed that all roads that are rehabilitated move from
"poor" to "good". The initial maintainable network and rehabilitation schedule is given as follows:
Annual increase in
Maintainable Network (Phase I)
Road Class      Start kms   % Paved                   kms
Primary          3,227        77%                    60
Secondary        5,284        29%                   110
Tertiary         5,937        7%                    360
Total            14,448       31%                   530
* Routine maintenance is applied to all "maintainable" roads (good or fair condition) that are not scheduled
for to periodic maintenance in a given year.
*  Periodic maintenance is planned according to average maintenance cycles, recognizing that actual periodic
maintenance requirements will vary with traffic and other factors. Actually periodic maintenance
interventions will be determined by annual HNMS analysis and budget availability:
Surface       Cycle
Paved        10 years
Unpaved        5 years
*  The unit rates used for maintenance include those specific interventions that are considered to be most
likely for the road class and surface, based upon recent prices and considering the increasing competition in
the market for providing contracting services.
46



Intervention     Primary          Secondary       Tertiary
Routine Paved    US$650           US$650          US$650
Routine Unpaved   US$1,200        US$1,200        US$650
PM Paved         US$61,500        US$54,000       US$54,000
PM Unpaved       US$34,000        US$34,000       US$10,000
*  The "full maintenance" plan was prepared assuming no budget constraints. Total Maintenance Costs
inclusive of contingencies begin at US$68 million in the first year of the program and rise to US$127
million in year 10.
* The "constrained maintenance" plan was prepared assuming that Road Fund has to cover all routine and
periodic maintenance costs for Phase 1, except for scheduled IDA, EU, KfW and other donors contributions.
Under this scenario total maintenance costs are restricted to US$54 million in year one and to US$1 10
million in year ten.
*  Under the constrained maintenance scenario, deferred periodic maintenance starts at 0 kms in year I and
rises to approximately 500 kms in year ten. Cumulative deferred maintenance over the ten-year program is
2,612 kms.
RBMMP-Pluri-Annual Maintenance Program by Phase
(Millions of US Dollars)
Phase               I        II        III     Total
Full Maintenance Scenario
PM Maintenance Kms         7,530    7,586     8,767     23,883
Total Maintenance Costs    US$210  US$225  US$290  US$725
Constrained Maintenance Scenario
PM Maintenance Kms         7,530    6,375     7,367     21,271
Total Maintenance Costs    US$210  US$189  US$243  US$643
Cumulative Deferred PM     0         1212     1400      2,612
47



Pluri-Annual Maintenance: Full Maintenance
Component                2002        2003        2004       2005      2006       2007       2008       2009        2010      2011      Totat
Routine Maintcnance (km)    12,840         13,335     13,834      14,343     14,866  |15,410      15,981     16,553     17,125      17,699   151,986
Periodic Maintenance (km)   1,510          1,941      2,017       2,062      2,382    2,538      2,667       2,795      2,923       3,049    23,884
Routine Maintenance         US$11          US$12      US$12       US$13      US$14   US$16       US$17       US$19      US$20       US$22   US$157
(cost Million  US$)  ______  4_3__US_55_ S_69__ _                            _ __89_ ___ ___ _   _______05____                       __ __5
Periodic Maintenance        US$43          US$55      US$57       US$55      US$69   US$75       US$81       US$89      US$96       US$105  US$725
(cost Million US$)                                       _ _                           _        .__                           _        .      _
Pluri-Annual Maintenance: Constrained Maintenance (Available Funds)
Component               2002          2003       2004       2005      2006      2007        2008       2009        2010      2011      Total
Routine Maintenance         12,840         13,335     13,834      14,343     15,247   15,578      15,931     16,285     16,641      16,997   151,031
Periodic Maintenance        1,510          1,941      2,017       2,062      2,001    2,133      2,241       2,349      2,456       2,562    21,271
Routine Maintenance         US$11          US$12      US$12      US$13       US$15   US$16       US$17       US$18      US$20       US$21   US$155
(cost Million US$)                                                           __7S_-$                                                        - _7_S
Periodic Maintenance        US$43          US$55      US$57      US$55       US$58    US$63      US$68       US$74      US$81       US$88   US$643
(cost Million US$)                  .                                                             _      _      _
48



Network Condition - All Network
30,000
25,000 _                                                              
20,000
E 15,000
10,000
5,000
0
2001        2002         2003         2004         2005         2006        2007         2008         2009         2010
Year
l-Poor El Fair aGood
49



Network Condition - Paved Network
6,000
5,000
4,000
E3,000
2,000
1,000,
0  -
2001        2002         2003         2004         2005         2006         2007         2008         2009         2010
Year
*ePoor EFair ElGood|
Network Condition - Unpaved Network
25,000   ----- .
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
2001        2002         2003         2004        2005         2006         2007         2008        2009         2010
Year
F Por o     Fair 1Goo.d
50



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Local      Foreiga      Total
Piroct Cost byl   -pe t- (.P-L)                  -        us $ _m
A. Roads & Bridges works                                        202.0          367.0   569.0
1. Routine Maintenance                                          27.0          18.0    45.0
2. Periodic Maintenance                                         72.9         125.1   198.0
3. Rehabilitation                                               62.7         146.3   209.0
4. Rural Roads & Bridges                                        22.8          34.2    57.0
5. Emergency Works                                               4.0           6.0    10.0
6. Road Safety                                                   2.1           7.6      9.6
7. Engineering Services for the Road Sector                     10.5          29.9    40.4
B. Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening                  13.4           22.2    35.6
1. Technical Studies & Assistance to the Road Sector             1.5           8.7    10.2
2. Expertise & Institutional Strengthening of ANE                1.3           9.0    10.4
3. Training                                                      1.4           3.0      4.4
4. Support to Program & Project Management                       0.2            1.4     1.6
5. ANE, DEPs & Road Fund Operating Expenses                      9.0                    9.0
C. Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2          1.0            9.1    10.1
1. Technical Studies & Assistance to the Road Sector             0.1           0.5      0.5
2. Expertise & Institutional Strengthening of ANE                1.0           8.6      9.6
Total Baseline Costs                        216.4         398.3   614.7
Physical Contingencies                                           8.2          21.5    29.7
Price Contingencies                                             33.4          25.9    59.3
Total Project Costs                          258.0          445.6   703.6
Total Financing Required, of which                  258.0          445.6   703.6
Government                                                      13.5           0.0    13.5
Road maintenance Fund                                          117.1          80.7   197.8
Other Donors                                                    88.5         223.3   311.8
IDA                                                             33.5         128.5   162.0
To be financed                                                   5.4           13.1    18.5
51



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs (cont.)
Goods                                                        0.6            1.9      2.5
Works                                                       191.5         410.1   601.6
Services                                                    55.5           28.4    83.9
Training                                                      1.4           3.8      5.2
Other                                                        9.0            1.3    10.3
Total Project Costs                       258.0         445.6   703.6
Total Financing Required, of which               258.0          445.6   703.6
Government                                                 13.5           0.0    13.5
Road maintenance Fund                                     117.1          80.7   197.8
Other Donors                                               88.5         223.3   311.8
IDA                                                        33.5          128.5   162.0
To be financed                                              5.4          13.1    18.5
52



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs (cont.)
Local Fomign Tot81   Lcal Foreui- Tita
Prct CoSt b Component (APL-)   iM                                 2M lhion)      -(US$  iiai)
A. Roads & Bridges works
1. Routine Maintenance                                    513     342    855   27.0    18.0  45.0
2. Periodic Maintenance                                  1,385   2,377   3,762   72.9   125.1  198.0
3. Rehabilitation                                        1,191   2,780   3,971   62.7   146.3  209.0
4. Rural Roads & Bridges                                  433      650   1,083   22.8    34.2  57.0
5. Emergency Works                                         76      114    190    4.0      6.0  10.0
6. Road Safety                                             39      144    183    2.1      7.6   9.6
7. Engineering Services for the Road Sector               200     567    767   10.5    29.9  40.4
Subtotal Roads & Bridges works                            3,837   6,974 10,811  202.0  367.0 569.0
B. Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening
1. Technical Studies & Assistance to the Road Sector       29      165    194    1.5      8.7  10.2
2. Expertise & Institutional Strengthening of ANE          25      172    197    1.3      9.0  10.4
3. Training                                                27       57      84    1.4     3.0   4.4
4. Support to Program & Project Management                  3       27     30    0.2      1.4   1.6
5. ANE, DEPs & Road Fund Operating Expenses                171       0     171    9.0     0.0   9.0
Subtotal Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening       255     421    676   13.4    22.2  35.6
C. Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2
1. Assistance for Strategy formulation                      1       9      10    0.1      0.5   0.5
2. General and Technical Studies & Expertise to the Road Sector  18  164    182    1.0    8.6   9.6
Subtotal Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2    19  173    192    1.0     9.1  10.1
Total Baseline Costs                                      4,112   7,567 11,679  216.4   398.3 614.7
Physical Contingencies                                     156     408    564    8.2    21.5  29.7
Price Contingencies                                       635      491   1,126     33      26   59.3
Total Project Costs                                       4,902   8,466 13,368  258.0  445.6 703.6
53



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs (cont.)
A. Roads & Bridges works
1. Routine Maintenance                                                -               -            47.5    94       2.8      6       -            50.3   7%
2. Periodic Maintenance                                             38.1    17                    127.8    57    53.5    24        4.8      2   224.1   32%
3. Rehabilitation                                                   55.8    23    12.0       5        -           172.2    72        -           240.0  34%
4. Rural Roads & Bridges                                            17.3    25      0.9      1        -            50.7    74        -            69.0   10%
5. Emergency Works                                                   6.3    57      0.3      3        -      -        -            4.4    40    11.0   2%
6. Road Safety                                                       7.1    65      0.3      2        -      -        -            3.6    33    10.9   2%
7. Engineering Services for the Road Sector                         14.t    31      0.0            12.2    27    19.2    42        0.4       1    45.9    7%
Subtotal Roads & Bridges works                                      138.6    21    13.5        2     187     29   298.4    46    13.2         2   651.1  93%
B. Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening
I . Technical Studies & Assistance to the Road Sector               4.8    42       0.0               -      -      6.7    58        -            11.5   2%
2. Expertise & Institutional Strengthening of ANE                    7.4    64      0.0               -      -      4.2    36        -            11.6   2%
3. Training                                                          2.7    51      0.0               -      -      2.5    49        -             5.2    1%
4. Support to Program & Project Management                           1.9   100      0.0               -      -        -              -             1.9   0%
5. ANE, DEPs & Road Fund Operating Expenses                            -      -       -            10.3   100         -              -            10.3    1%
Subtotal Policy Refonrs & Institutional Strengthening                16.8    41       0.0            10.3    26    13.4    33          -           40.5    6%
C. Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2
1. Assistance for Strategy formulation                               0.6   100      0.0               -      -        -              -             0.6    0%
2. General and Technical Studies & Expertise to the Road Sector      6.1    53      0.0               -               -            5.3    47    11.4   2%
Subtotal Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2        6.7    56       0.0               -               -            5.3    44    12.0   2%
Total Project Costs                                                 162.0    23    13.5        2   197.8    28   311.8    44    18.5          3   703.6  100%
54



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
A.    The Integrated Road Sector Strategy and road selection and priorities
The sine qua non condition underpinning the Integrated Road Sector Strategy for Mozambique was
assuring the sustainability of the national road network. Sustainability focuses on two aspects of the road
management system. On the works side, priority is given first to maintaining roads that are already in
transitable condition before any additional roads are added to the network. On the resource side, revenues
must be collected from road users in a manner ensuring the flow of funds to cover all maintenance needs.
These principles translate into the following simple rules for roads selection:
* The highest priority is given to routine maintenance for the entire maintainable network.
* Periodic maintenance of all roads in good or fair condition must be programmed and budgeted
in such a way that road conditions do not fall below the level of "fair."
* Prioritized rehabilitation to bring the unmaintained network into service should be undertaken
only when maintenance can be assured both by financial resources and by the capacity of the
sector to carry out the required maintenance works.
A.1.  Network Priorities
The network strategy decided is to ensure connectivity on the priority trunk network, expand
rehabilitation in the densely populated and economically productive regions of the Centre and North,
provide access to high-priority economic poles and improve and expand rural accessibility-all the while
attempting to balance rehabilitation works among the ten provinces.
Primary Roads: National Integration and International Connectivity
Placing emphasis on the improvement of the main North-South road will contribute to national unity,
promote internal commerce and improve access to major social, political and commercial centres. A
second goal for the prioritisation of the primary network will be to ensure secure and continuous
connectivity to the network for all provincial capitals.
The main elements of the strategy for primary road rehabilitation are:
* Completion of an all-year, all weather, well-maintained trunk road along the main north-south
corridor, including the construction of a bridge to cross the Zambezi River at Caia.
* Connectivity between provincial capitals and the main trunk system.
* Connections between provinces-especially provincial capitals.
* Maintaining or a high level of service on the main international corridors (Maputo, Beira,
Nacala, and Tete).
Tertiary Roads: Balanced and Equitable Economic Development
Improving access to rural populations and markets, especially in densely populated areas, is the second
pillar of the network strategy. Many of Mozambique' s citizens are effectively cut off from the
transportation network, depriving them of access to markets and basic social services. Improving the
tertiary road network, including feeder roads, will extend economic and other opportunities to these
populations.
55



In all, the ten-year Investment Plan calls for almost doubling the maintained tertiary network most of it
accomplished via labor-based rehabilitation and maintenance techniques that have proved very effective
under the Feeder Roads Program (ROCS 1).
The main elements of the strategy for tertiary and feeder road rehabilitation are:
* Priority to tertiary and feeder road development in areas of agricultural surplus
* Priority to economically disadvantaged regions
* Priority to the northern half of the country
* Priority to feeder roads connecting to existing rail lines.
Secondary Roads: Targeting Production Poles
All road investments and maintenance strategies are based on the dual targets of economic feasibility and
systematic consideration of social criteria, such as regional balance. This is especially important with
respect to identifying crucial gaps in the secondary road network. The main elements of this approach are
to:
* Connect poles of major economic activity-agriculture, mining, industry, fishing, both
existing and potential-to the national road network;
* Prioritise roads that give access to existing or potential tourist sites;
* Encourage commerce and trade by continuing to ensure good access to the main ports, rail
lines, and inland border crossings;
* Connect all cities, including provincial capitals, to the national road network;
* Connect district capitals and other important towns to the national road network.
A.2.   Prioritized Investment Plan
The method used for project prioritization in conjunction with the Road Sector Strategy was multi-
criterion analysis (MCA). The individual criteria were chosen partly on the basis of survey results from
stakeholders' workshops conducted around the country (in Maputo, Beira and Nampula), and they were
grouped into five general subject areas. The main criteria and the weights they were given in the MCA
process were:
*  Economic feasibility:     40%;
*  National integration:     20%;
*  Accessibility:            20%;
*  Social factors:           15%;
*  Environmental issues:     5%.
Priority Projects
In addition to the periodic maintenance program, which is in any case the first priority, the final APL-1
list for prioritization purposes contained 58 roads for rehabilitation and the preparatory activities
(feasibility and detailed design) for the Caia bridge in order to timely respond to the road user demand
expressed during the public consultations. Table A4.1 presents the final ranking using the base weights
described above, along with some of the values used in the determination of the ranking. Out of these
priorities, the roads and bridges under IDA financing have been selected to respond to the rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance of the North-South priority trunk (ENI) and the rural roads in the provinces of
Nampula and Tete as targeted by the road sector strategy.
56



TabI,eA4.1. Nationall Road Sctor Strate'"'-Road Rehabilitation Prioritie's(C~osts in -S$ Mi11Io                  -
Road  ~     Road              Class  Sufc  Lcngth lntervention  AADT  Financial Fiancil  IRR  NPV              DTonor  Fin%    Provinc'~  Stanr  Rank,
No,                                                                    Final    TotaliWI                                                    Yea
93    EN 231 Nampevo -Gurue    S         P        127    Rehab        39       12.3      12.3       619' 148   1IDB       80%  Zamabezia   2002 1
312    EN 8 Nampula - Cr. EN81104 P      U        159    Rehab        93       10.6      10.6    158%  00   0.0          0%    NarnpLula    2006 2
___(lap.ala).
83    EN 8 Nampula -Nacala        P      P        199    Rehab        669      22.0      19.3      29%   5.1 ~CE          100  Nampala    2002 3
53   ~EN -101 Lindela - Inh-ambane -P  -P         33-   Rehab         540-    2.3        12.3       38%   00 00           0    In-hanibanei  2006 4
50    EN 2 Matola - Boane         P      P        24      Rehab       5,670    4.9       4.9       314% 0.0   0.0        0%   Maputo        20-065
10    ER 405 Fr. Maputo - Chokwe T       U       131     Rural        42       0.6       0.6       58%   0.0  IDA        95% -95  za        2-002- 6
55    EN 249 Mandimba -           S      U        139    Rehab        156      8.1   ~ 8l          3% 0.0   0.0   ~0%   LNiassa             2006 7
Lichinga                                                                             LI___L__
42    EN I Maputo - Marracuene   P       P        30      Rehab       111.574   8.       82          4%   0.0O  IDA       95%  iMapuio      2002 8
64    EN 259 Inhambane - Tofo    S       P        21      Rehab       -43      2.5       2.5        82%   0.0   0.0       0%   lnhasr,banc   2006 9
14-  ER 555 Estima - Magoc        T      U        123    Rural        29       2.4       2.4       47%   0.0  IDA         95%  Tete          2002 10
81    EN 242/106 Pemba -  S     P        200    Rehab         380      29.1      7.8       25%   0.0   ADB       9%Cb                021
___Montepuez                                                                                                                 Delgado
73   JEN 239 Nampula - Nametil  S        U        74      Rehab       198      4.4       4.4       41 %   0.0 0.0         0%   Na-mpula    2006 12
15    EN I Maxixe-Cr.             P      P        123    Rehab        1,018    20.3      20.3      32%   60.0  -fIDA     95%  Inhaffan    2002 13
___ER520/ENI1
8     EN 239 Narmetil - Cr.       S      U        76      Rural       228      4.9       4.9       43%   0.0  IDA         95%  Nampula  -~2002 14
EN239/260                                                                                                                 _____
85- EN 206 Chissano - Chibuto   S        U        39      Rehab       192      7.0      14.9        41%   2.8   BADEA 180%  Gaza             2002 15
62    EN 231 Gurue - Lioma        S      U        46      Rehab       120      2.7       2.7        27%/1 0.0   0.0       0%   Zambezia   2006 16
12- ER 516 Nacaroa - Cr. EN       T      U        71      Rehab       21       1.5       1.5       40%   0.0   0.0        0%   Namrpula--- 2006 17
241/516
27    ER 490/483 Mualama - Gile  T       U        134    Re-hab       16       2.7       2.7        81%   0.0   -0.0      0%    Za-mbe-zia    2006 18
52    EN 8 Cuamba - Mandimba   P         U        152    Rehab        75       8.8       8.8        18%   0.0   0.0       0-%  Niass a       2006 19
5     EN 201 Catembe - Bela Vista S      U        43      Rehab       145      2.8       2.8        50%   0.0   0.0       0%   Maputo        20-06 20
50-0  EN -I Caia -Bridge          P~ p   P        0       Rehab       0        80.0      80.0       12%   0.0   0.0       0%   Zambezia   2006 21
51- EN ~7/227 ~Miiange - ~Mocuba  -P     U        171    Rehab        63       9.9       9.9        15%   0.0   0.0       0%   Zambezia   2006 22
60    EN 3/202 Boane - Bela Vista P/S-  7U-       66      Rehab       458      3.8       3.8        90%   0.0   0.0       0%   Mpto          2006 23
7     EN 223 Cr. EN 223/103 -    S       P        127    Rehab        265      18.0       18.0      17%   18.3  ADB       90%  Tete          2002 24
Calonmut
91    EN 7/104/232 ~Namacurffa  -;P      p    -   317    Rehab        140      40.0      40.0       12%   60.0  -CE       1 0-0  Zam-b ezi a    2002 25
Rio Ligonha
29.1  EN 1 Cr. EN1I/ER520 -       P      P        109    Rehab        357      13.1      13.1       14%  0.0  IDA         95%k  In-hanibane   2002 26
Vilankulo
84    EN 102 Varnduzi - Changara  P      P        232    Rehab        435      19.6       13.1      14%   2.4   AD-B  90          aia        2002 27
63    EN 255/474 EN 231/255 -    S/T    U         160    Rehab        28       5.4       5.4        12%   0.0   0.0       0%   Zamb-ezia --2006 28
___Milange
65    ER 405 Magude - Fr. Gaza   T       U        41      Rehab       73       0.8       0.8       48%   0.0   -0.0       0     MaLuto       2006 29
26    ER 485 Olinga - Mocubela   T       U        65      Rebab       24       1.3        1.3       30%   0.0   0.0       0%   Zambezia   200  30
z44    E  I Manhica - Incoluane    P     P        52      R~eh-ab     246      12.8       12.8      16%   0.0  IDA       945%1  MapLuto      2002 31
29.2  EN I Vilankulo - Rio Save   P      P        112    Rehab        240      13.8       13.8      12%   0.0   0.0       0%   Inharaubane   2006 32
41    ER 572 Meconta - Corrane   SIT    U         68      Rural       109      3.4       3.4        30%   60.0 ID-A   ~ -95%   Nampula    2002 33
28 ER 491 Gild - Cr.           T      U        91      Rehab       25       1.8       1.8      -3 7%   0.0 0.0         0    Za-mbezia   2O006 3
ER4911EN232 
23    EN 2561205 Chokwe -Lagoa S         P        128    Rehab        140      6.9       6.9        17%   0.0  OUP-EC T80%Gaza               200YO-2 35
NovaI 
90- EN I Inch-ope -Goro~ngosa  -P        P        74      Rehab       184      9.4       6.9        21%   0.0   USAID   94%  Sofala          20  36
3-8  EN 224 Quelimane - Chinde  S        U        85      Rehab       23       4.2       4.2       T818%   0.0 0.0        0     Zambezia   2006 37
2 13- EN -208Gu igaaB ridge       0      0        0       Rural       0        10.0      I10.0      12%   0.0   NDF       100  Gaza          3000 38
3-9   EN ~243 Mac-omia - Oasse    S      P        101    Rehab        95       15.7      15.7      2%    0.0   0.0        0%   fCabo         2006 39
1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j___Delgado
94    EN 242 Litunde - Fr. Cabo    S     U        322    Rehab        57       20.0      20.0       14%   0.0   ASDI   ! to    Niassa        2002 40
Delgado                                                                                                              1 
66    ER 449 Mutarara - Vita Nova T      U        43      Rehab       1 4      0.8       0.8        10%   0.0   0.0   ~0%   ITete            2006 4 1
69- ER 493/UC Cr 231/493 -                TU       12-1Re-hab         19       2.0       2.0        14%   0.0-  0.0       0%   Zarmbezia   2006 42
Alto Mo oue
7-1  E-R 45-0 Cr. ER450/ENIO 3 -  T      U        210   R1e-hab       20       4.2       4.2      1T4%9  0. 0   0.0       0%   Tt20643
Mutarara
201  .14 Bridges                  0      0        0       Rehab       0        14.0       14.       12%   0.0   JICA      100  Natio-nal    30-00  44
57



Table A4A.: National Road Sector Strategy-Road Rehabilita    Priorites (Costs in  Ss  =illion)
Road            Road             Class Surface tngth lit rvention  AALYT  Financial Fiancial  IRR  NPV   Donor  Fin%   Province   Start Rank
No.                                                    _____     Final    Total          R3                I        I     J            Year
16   EN I Rio Save - Muxungue  P       P        107    Rehab        215     5.5       2.4       14%  5.4   CE         100  Sofala       2002 45
34   EN 213 Dondo - Muanza       S     U        76      Rehab       124     37        3.7       29%   0.0   0.0      0    Sofala        2006 46
22    EN 241 Cr. EN8/241 -       S      U       68      Rehab       43       10.9    t10.9      9c   0.0   0.0        0%   Nampula    2006 47
Memba
13   ER 538 Metangula -          T     U                Rehab        2      8.7       8.7                   0.0      0%   Niassa        2006 48
Lupilichi
9     EN 242 Kwe-Kwe - Balama  S        U       80      Rehab       26       10.9     10.9      1%   0.0   0.0        0%   Cabo         2006 49
_  . _         ~~Delgado  __   
204  Rural Roads (Niassa e       T      U       445    Rural        0       8.6       8.6       |12%  0.0  IFAD    100  Niassa          3000 50
Maputo)                                                                                                         %                -
208  RuralRoads (Niassa)         T      U        126    Rural       0        1.2      1.2       12%   0.0  IRLAN   100  'Niassa         3000 50
DA    %
211   Rural Bridges (Zambezia)    T     0       0       Rural       0       4.5       4.5       12%   0.0   CE        100  Zambezia   3000 52
212   Rural Roads (National)     T      U       80      Rural       0        1.6      1.6       12%  0.0   SIDA/D  100  Zambezia   3000 52
FID     1%1
216  Rural Roads (Zambezia)      T      U       452   |Rural        0  12.2          9.9        12%  0.0   KFW      1    Zambezia   3000 52
74   EN 260 Moma - Boila         S      U        108   |Rehab       44      6.4       64        10% p   0.0        0%   Nampula    2006 55
80   EN 1 Gorongosa - Caia       P  P           240    Rehab        85      45.3      11.3     17% -2.2  USAID  94   Sofala             2002 56
207  Rural Roads (Cabo Delgado) T       U       325    Rural        0       4.4      z4.4       112%  00   |NORAD-  100  |Cabo          3000 57
7U -   -1      l           j                        I              - _ _    1%    Delgado
37   EN 221 Bene - Fingoe        S      U       114    Rural        70      5.6       5.6       1l7%  10.0  IDA     95%  Tete          2002 58
203  Rural Roads (Tete, Manica)  T      U        140   |Rural       0       4.0       4.        12%  0.0  |DANID  100  Tete             3000 59
I_ I  I   I   I   I   I   I    IA        %    1
210  RuralRoads(Nampulae         T      U       87      Rural       0.0     1.J7      1. 7      12% 7.0 r    USAID  100  Nampula    3000 60
Zambezia)                                         R            0      5%
215   District Roads Nampula    |T       U      0                                                     00 05    1 UNCDF  100  Nampula    3000 60
58



B.    Methodology for the cost benefit analysis
Economic benefits of road rehabilitation and maintenance works are measured as reductions in vehicle
operating costs (VOCs) due to the project. Improved road conditions reduce vehicle operating costs by
reducing tire wear and the need for spare parts per kilometer driven, and by contributing to fuel
efficiency.
The estimates of net present values and economic rates of return presented here have been generated
using the Highway Development & Management Tool, version 1.1 (HDM 4). For a given road and
schedule of maintenance and/or rehabilitation activities, the model simulates the deterioration of the road
and links it to costs of maintenance and changes in traffic. It then evaluates the impact of the simulated
road condition upon the vehicle operating costs. For each alternative, the model generates yearly cash
flows over the economic analysis period. In this way, two alternatives can be compared: the with project
case and the without-project case
In this analysis:
*  Net present values (NPV) were evaluated using a 12 percent discount rate (assumed to be the
opportunity cost of capital in Mozambique) over a 20 year economic evaluation period
*  All economic costs are net of taxes
*  Capital costs include 5 percent physical contingencies
*  No residual value was used for periodic maintenance or rehabilitation (as these investments have a
technical life not exceeding the 20 years evaluation period)
*  The value of labor or foreign exchange rates do not include shadow prices (unskilled labor costs have
a marginal impact on overall civil work and there is an open market for foreign exchange
transactions).
In addition to the benefits of reduced vehicle operating costs, improved road conditions will also generate
benefits such as improved access to more productive jobs, health care, schools, and other services. These
benefits may be substantial in the project area, but no attempt has been made to quantify them. They are
in addition to the ones listed above.
Finally, the proposed program will also likely increase agricultural output in the fertile areas of
Inhambane, Tete, Gaza and Nampula by increasing farmers' access to credit and markets. The benefits of
increased production have not been calculated, and would also add to total benefits.
C.    Economic analysis of road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works
IDA-supported road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works will generate an overall economic rate
of return of 28 percent with rates of return of various road projects ranging from 14 to 64 percent (Table
A4.4 at the end of this Annex). The sum of the NPVs totals US$187 million.
TrafFic and traffic projections
Base traffic has been estimated for each road link on the basis of ANE traffic counts on the national road
network in 1998, 1999 and for selected roads in January 2001 (provided by ANE Planning Department).
The Directorate of Regional Roads (DER) has also been consulted to confirm traffic levels on regional
roads with low traffic. Average base year 2000 traffic for the project roads are provided in Table A4.4.
Traffic projections for the three types of roads (primary, secondary and tertiary) and for the 20 year period
59



used in the economic analysis were also provided by ANE. They have been elaborated by Scott Wilson,
the consultants in charge of implementing the Highway Network Management System (HNMS) within
the planning department of ANE. The projected annual traffic growth rates are summarized in Table
A4.2 below.
Table A4.2. Projected annual traffic growth rates, 2001 - 2020
Growth rate
Year          Primary roads   Secondary   Tertiary roads
roads
2000-2001         6.0%           7.0%           5.5%
2001-2003         6.0%           5.5%           5.5%
2003-2008         5.0%           4.5%           4.0%
2008-2020         3.5%           3.5%           3.5%
Investment costs
Per kilometer investment costs have been estimated using ANE's database of unit costs, which has been
established for each province according to the road class and the type of improvement work. These are
based on the unit rates of the most recent signed civil works contracts when available, or expert estimates
based on the specific conditions prevailing in Mozambique. The unit costs of the maintenance operations
such as patching, resealing, grading, and the like have been calculated based on information from either
the ANE database of unit costs, or from random samples of unpaved road maintenance contracts recently
signed by ANE. Economic costs have been calculated from financial costs by excluding taxes. Economic
construction costs are assumed to represent about 80 percent of financial costs. Improvement costs
include 5 percent provisions for physical contingencies. A one year implementation period for physical
work has been assumed for all the roads considered. Project global financial and econoYmic costs and
average per kilometer costs are provided in Table A4.4.
Vehicle operating costs
Basic data for the calculation of vehicle operating costs are summarized in the Table A4.3. below. Cost
data are simnilar to the ones used by the HNMS, which were updated in late 1999 and, for the fuel costs, in
2000.
Table A4.3. Main vehicle economic costs (in US$) and use of vehicle inputs
Cars         Light Truck     Heavy Trucks         Buses
Purchase price          13,505          31,426            49,811           62,354
Tires (per tire)           30               54              172              260
Fuel (per liter)          0.32            0.19              0.19             0.19
Crew (per hour)           0.80            3.23              3.23             3.98
Overhead                  659            1,239             1,958            6,325
Interest rate per year   22%              22%               22%              22%
Kilometer per year     20,000           40,000            55,000          130,000
Life (years)                8                8                 8                7
60



Alternative treatments and corresponding costs
Unpaved without project
The without project case for unpaved roads comprises grading once a year and routine maintenance
carried out once a year. The costs for these treatments are from ANE unit costs database and sample
contracts.
Unpaved with project
*  Periodic maintenance. This involves regraveling in the first year and then: (a) grading once a year as
a minimum or after 12,000 vehicle passes whichever is the less, and (b) routine maintenance every
year. For roads where a design and engineer's estimates exist the "with project" costs have been
amended to reflect the engineer's estimated costs. The same periodic treatment described above is
used after the initial nonstandard periodic maintenance has been taken into account.
*  Rehabilitation. Individual treatments are assigned as "improvement treatments" (HDM 4
terminology) as upgrading to gravel standard. The costs used are either from the ANE unit costs
database for province and road class, or from engineers estimates when available. After the initial
treatment, the periodic maintenance is applied as described above.
*  Upgrade to paved. Where a road link is to be upgraded to paved, the upgrading to sealed road model
is used, and the new surface type is double bituminous surface dressing on a stabilized (150
millimeter) subbase with a resilient modulus of 7Gpa. Costs are based on rehabilitation costs named
in the ANE unit cost database. Following the initial treatment, the periodic maintenance treatment for
paved roads is applied.
Paved without project
For each paved link, the "without project" case consists of patching when the severely damaged area
exceeds 5 percent, crack sealing when the wide structural cracks exceed 5 percent, and routine
maintenance every year at the relevant costs for the province. Other costs reflect information from ANE.
Paved with project
Periodic maintenance. Periodic maintenance treatment consists of resealing (single bituminous surface
dressing + shape correction) at 7 -10 year intervals, and routine maintenance every year.
Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is modeled as an improvement treatment; for primary roads the treatment
is asphalt rmix on stabilized subbase and for all other paved roads it is double surface dressing on
stabilized subbase. The costs are either from the ANE unit costs database or reflect engineer's estimate
when available. Following the initial treatment periodic maintenance treatment is foreseen.
61



Box 1 Summary of the economic analysis
1. Roads rehabilitation works. This subcomponent will rehabilitate four sections of the main north-
south link of ENI (313 kilometers) at the cost of US$54.6 million. The road is degraded to the point
that normal maintenance is impossible. Because of the high roughness of pavement, traffic using this
most important link (annual average traffic of 350-15,500 vehicles per day) bear high vehicle operating
costs (VOCs). Estimated economic rates of return for the four sections range from 14 to 64 percent.
The average EIRR is estimated at 33%. The sum of the NPVs for the four sections totals US$145
million.
2. Roads periodic maintenance works. This sub-component will provide periodic maintenance for
four sections of the main north-south link ENI (525 kilometers), at a cost of US$ 37.9 million. The
main economic benefit of the works is preservation of past road investments and reduction of VOCs
(annual average traffic of 150-2,200 vehicles per day). Estimated economic rates of return for the four
sections range from 14 to 21 percent. The average EIRR is estimated at 17%. The sum of the NPVs for
the three sections totals US$20 million.
3. Rural roads civil works. This subcomponent will rehabilitate or provide periodic maintenance for
412 kilometers of rural roads in the provinces of Gaza, Nampula and Tete, at the cost of US$17 million.
Five gravel or earth roads in very poor condition, some of them hardly trafficable during the rainy
season, will be improved. The proposed works will reduce vehicle operating costs immediately.
Providing year-round access to rural areas may also induce agricultural development benefits which
have not been quantified in the global project economic evaluation. Based solely on VOCs savings,
this component has EIRR estimated at 17 to 58 percent (average estimated EIRR is 32%) and the sum
of the NPVs totals US$22 mnillion.
Sensitivity of the economic evaluation
Table A4.5. presents various assumptions tested and their impact on the overall economic rate of return of
the roads considered. The main assumptions tested are: (a) changes in investment costs (an increase of 20
percent), and (b) changes in base traffic (a reduction of 20 percent), which, for this type of analysis, is
equivalent to a reduction of 20 percent of the benefits and is a much more severe assumption than similar
variations affecting the growth of the traffic or VOCs.
The economic rates of return of the proposed IDA works are fairly robust. Only two roads see their rate of
return fall to about 11% under pessimistic assumptions; in all the other cases tested, the calculated
economic rate of return remain above the assumed opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent.
Stochastic risk analysis
In order to factor uncertainty into the economic evaluation, a Monte Carlo type risk analysis was
conducted by ANE. The Crystal Ball Add-In program for MS Excel was used for the Monte Carlo
simulation. This program requires the data to be provided in spreadsheet form and cannot interact
directly with HDM-4. For each project, it was therefore necessary to extract data from the HDM4 "With
Project" and "WithOut Project" output reports in such a manner that annual costs, benefits and resulting
cash flow could appear in a format appropriate for simulation.
62



Triangular type probability distributions were assumed for two variables considered to have the most
influence on the projects EIIR: (a) investment costs and (b) traffic. For the construction costs, the lowest
and highest possible values were assumed at 80% and 150% of the engineering estimates (most likely
value), including physical contingencies and supervision costs respectively. For traffic, the lowest and
highest possible values were assumed at 70% and 130% of the most likely values provided by recent
traffic counts.
Some 5,000 simulations were run by the model for each road section (2,000 simulations for the main
components and the entire project), combining randomly generated values for the two selected variables.
The global results of the risk analysis ( certainty level for each of the 13 project roads to have a higher
than 12% EIRR), appear in Table A.4.6 . The detailed reports of the simulation are provided in Table
A.4.7 for each of the three civil works components (rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and rural roads)
and for the whole project.
The results confirmed the low risk of project components. The rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and
rural road components each have above 95% certainty of having a higher than 12% EIRR. This certainty
comes close to 100% for the whole project.
D.    Pre-feasibility analyses
Road rehabilitation and improvement, program, phases 2 and 3
The Ministry of Public Works and Housing has identified a program of periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation works for phases two and three of the APL. Stakeholders have been involved in reviewing
the proposals as part of the road strategy consultation process. The full phase 2 and 3 of the ten year APL
will be appraised in detail during implementation of phase one and two of the program respectively.
Benefits of improvements to rural roads can be best tested by taking account of other development
benefits, aside from reducing VOCs, such as increased agricultural productions, elimination of post
harvest losses, and the like. This can be done by first submitting candidate roads to threshold analysis.
The threshold analysis will identify the minimum traffic flows needed to guarantee project viability, given
the reductions in road roughness that the program would bring about. For roads which do not meet this
criteria, a more detailed analysis of potential development benefits will be necessary to fully demonstrate
their economic viability (by incorporating for instance exogenous benefits into HDM analysis).
63



Table A4.4.
Economic analysis of roads under IDA financing
EIRR based on HDM4 Analysis- 20 years- Discotunt rate =12%
,A. Road Rehabilitation works
42 EN I Maputo - Maracuene             P       29.7  Rehab./   417ITo 15470  7.2 To 8.0   AC   SC Overla  4 To 5    8.234          6.587    277,246    64%   I98
15 EN I Maxixe - Cr. ER520/EN 1       P         123  Rehab./    690 To 1580       6.0       AC       AC      5 To 8    20.345     16.276    165,000    32%        41
29.1 EN I Cr. EN /ER520 - Vilanculos   P         109  Rehab./    333 To 627        6.0       AC       AC      6 To 7    13.140     10.512    120,000    14%        1
44 EN I Manhica - Incoluane            P       51.6  Rehab./   1262 To 2296       7.5      DBST    C/DBST    4         12.839     10.271    250,000    16%        5
Sub-Total A.                               313                                                                      54.558      43.646             33%       145
B. Road Periodic Maintenance works         _
3  EN 1 Muxungue - Inchope            P        145    PM         147 To 416       7.0   AC/DBST  SBST    5 To 7    10.830         8.664      75,000    14%        I
43 EN I Maracuene - Manhica            P         48    PM        2058 To 2177  7.2 To 8.0   AC    C Overla    3        5.760       4.608     120,000    15%       2
1  EN I Incoluane - Zandamela         p        159    PM        463 To 1369   7.0 To 7.5    AC      SBST    4 To 6    10.253      8.202     64,500    21%        11
2  EN I Zandamela - Maxixe            P        173    PM         654 To 1376   5.8 To 7.0   AC      SBST    4 To 8    11.048      8.838      64,500    17%        6
Sub-Total B.                               525                                                                      37.890      30.312             17%        20
C. Rural Roads civil works
10 ER 405 Fr.Maputo - Chokwe          T          31  Rehab./         98           6.0     Gravel   Gravel    12        0.611      0.489      19,800    58%        2
37 EN221 Bene-Fingoe                   S        114  Rehab./         28        6.0 To 6.2  Gravel   Gravel  8 To 10    5.595      4.476      49,122     17%       2
41 ER572 Meconta Corrane              S/T        68  Rehab./    100 To 190   6.0 To 7.0  Gravel   Gravel    13         3.419      2.735      50,281     30%       3
8  EN 239 Nametil - Cr.EN239/260      S         76  Rehab./    217 To 239         6.0   ,raveVEart Gravel  11 To 14   4.934       3.947      65,000    43%        9
14 ER555 Estima Magoe                 T         123  Rehab./         62           6.0      Earth    Gravel    10       2.436      1.949      19,800    47%        6
Sub-Total C.                               412                                                                      16.995      13.596             32%        22
TOTAL                                     1,250                                                                    109.443      87.554             28%       187
64



Table A4.5.
Sensitivity analysis of roads under IDA financing
Based on HDM 4 - Analysis
-                      .                  -        .  .,.   f S   ,  ,.P,.
Lierngth       E         ~~~~C A4LYI    SNIV?YANALYSIS
No.         =R .                                    i                                    N
A. Roads Rehabilitation works                                    _
42  EN 1 Maputo - Maracuene                P         29.7  Rehab./        64%             98            57%             96
15  EN 1 Maxixe - Cr. ER520/EN1            P          123  Rehab./        32%             41            28%             37
29.1 EN I Cr. EN1/ER520 - Vilanculos        P          109  Rehab./        14%              1            11%             -1
44  EN I Manhica - Incoluane               P         51.6  Rehab./         16%             5            14%              3
Subtotal A.                                   313                     33%            145           29%             134
B. Roads Periodic Maintenance wo ks
3  EN 1 Muxungue - Inchope                P          145    PM            14%             1             11%            -1
43  EN 1 Maracuene - Manhica               P           48    PM            15%             2            13%              1
1  EN I Incoluane - Zandamela             P          159    PM            21%             11           18%              9
2  EN 1 Zandamela - Maxixe                P          173    PM            17%             6             14%             3
Subtotal B.                                   525                     17%             20           15%             12
C. Rural Roads civil works
10  ER 405 Fr.Maputo - Chokwe              T           31  Rehab./        58%              2            45%             2
37  EN221 Bene-Fingoe                      S          114  Rehab./        17%              2            13%              1
41  ER572 Meconta Corrane                 S/T          68  Rehab./        30%              3            20%              1
8  EN 239 Nametil - Cr.EN239/260           S          76  Rehab./         43%             9            34%              7
14  ER555 Estima Magoe                     T          123  Rehab./        47%              6            36%             5
Subtotal C.                           =       412         =           32%             22           25%              15
TOTAL.                                        1,250                   28%            187           24%             161
65



Table A4.6.
Risk Analysis (Monte Carlo Analysis) of roads under IDA financing
Summary
=__ A. Roads Rehabilitation works
42  EN 1 Maputo - Maracuene               P         29.7  Rehab./       64%            98                 100%               Maputo
15  EN 1 Maxixe - Cr. ER520/EN1          P          123  Rehab./        32%            41                 100%             Inhambane
29.1 EN 1 Cr. EN1/ER520 - Vilanculos      P          109  Rehab./        14%             1                 53%              Inhambane
44  EN I Manhica - Incoluane              P         51.6  Rehab./       16%             5                  92%               Maputo
____  Subtotal A.                        _     _ 313    _                33%            145                 100%
_ B. Roads Periodic Maintenance wo ks
3  EN 1 Muxungue - Inchope               P          145    PM           14%            1                  55%            Sofala/Manica
43  EN 1 Maracuene - Manhica              P          48    PM           15%             2                  88%               Maputo
1  EN I Incoluane - Zandamela            P          159    PM          21%             11                100%                Gaza
2  EN 1 Zandamela - Maxixe               P          173    PM           17%            6                  93%              Inhambane
Subtotal B.                                  525                   17%             20                 97%
IC. Rural Roads civil works
10  ER 405 Fr.Maputo - Chokwe            T           31  Rehab./        58%             2                 100%                Gaza
37  EN221 Bene-Fingoe                     S         114  Rehab./        17%             2                 82%               Nampula
41  ER572 Meconta Corrane                S/T         68  Rehab./        30%             3                  93%              Nampula
8  EN 239 Nametil - Cr.EN239/260         S          76  Rehab./        43%             9                  100%              Nampula
14  ER555 Estima Magoe                   T          123  Rehab./        47%             6                 100%                Tete
[Subtotal C.                                 412                    32%            22                 99%
=___ TOTAL.                                       1,250                  28%            187                100%
66



Table A4.6.
Risk Analysis (Monte Carlo Analysis) of roads under IDA financing
All roads works
Forecast: EIRR - All Roads works
Summary:
Display Range is from 15% to 38% %
Entire Range is from 16% to 37% %
After 2.000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0%
Statistics:                                    Value                                       Forecast: EIRR - All Projects
Trials                             2000                2.000 Trials                  Frequency Chart                     0 Outliers
Mean                               26%                                                                                    63
Median                             26%                                                   L 
M o e- -04 ..........................................26%..................024            I47,25
Standard Deviation                  4%          3       ,016 .: ..........................5 ........                     31
Variance                            0%                 .0                       l" 
Skewness                           0.04                X....                              0       08- ,,,.....,,...|,,,,,..,,,,,. 15,75
Kurtosis                           2.67                (L                                                 L d
Coeff. of Variability              0.14                         oo - d
Range Minimum                      16%                          15%          21%          26%          32%/.         36%
Range Maximum                      37%
Range Width                        21%
Mean Std. Error                  0.08%
67



Table A4.6.
Risk Analysis (Monte Carlo Analysis) of roads under IDA financing
Rehabilitation works
Forecast: EIRR - Rehabiltation works
Summary:
Display Range is from 20% to 43% %
Entire Range is from 21% to 44% %
After 2.000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0%
Statistics:                                         Value                                     Forecast: EIRR - Rehabiltation Projects
Trials                                2000                  2.000 Trials                     Frequency Chart                         1 Outlier
Mean                                  31%                        027                                                                  54
Median                                31%
M ode                                    - -020-.  ........................ ......  ....                     .....................  ...................." ""  40'5
Mode~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Standard    D eviation                 4%                   0    014     ................... -.......l.         .................................................  .27
Variance                               0%
Skewness                              0.07                       007- ......I...*...*...l.." ... .-..-                               13,5
Kurtosis                              2.61
Coeff. of Variability                 0.12                        m-0
Range Minimum                         21%                             20b          26%           31%            37%           43%
Range Maximum                         44%
Range Width                           22%
Mean Std. Error                     0.08%
68



Table A4.6.
Risk Analysis (Monte Carlo Analysis) of roads under IIDA financing
Periodic Maintenance works
Forecast: EIRR - Peniodic Maintenance works
Summary:
Certainty Level is 96,65%
Certainty Range is from 12% to +Infinity %
Display Range is from 8% to 23% %
Entire Range is from 9% to 22% %
After 2.000 Trials, the Std. Effor of the Mean is 0%
Statistics:                                          Value                                             Forecast: EIRR - PM Projects
Trials                                 2000                   2.000 Trials                      Frequency Chart                          0 Outliers
Mean                                    16%                         032  -                                                                64
Median                                  16%
M ode                                     ---                       024    ...................... .....................   ...........  .. .48
Standard   Deviation                     2%                        .016  .I...........................                  .....................   32  .
Variance                                 0%                         0l
Skewness                               -0.01                         00.................8.............. .
Kurtosis                                2.72
Coeff. of Variability                   0.15
Range Minimurn                           9%                              8%            11%            15%            19%/6          23%
Certainty is 96,65% from 12% to +Infinity %
Range Maximum                           22%
Range Width                             13%
Mean Std. Error                      0.05%
69



Table A4.6.
Risk Analysis (Monte Carlo Analysis) of roads under IDA financing
Rural Roads works
Forecast: EIRR - Rural Roads works
Summary:
Certainty Level is 99,40%
Certainty Range is from 12% to +Infinity %
Display Range is from 10% to 50% %
Entire Range is from 5% to 51% %
After 2.000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0%
Statistics:                                             Value                                               Forecast: EIRR - Rural Roads
Trials                                   2000                    2.000 Trials                        Frequency Chart                            6 Outliers
Mean                                      29%                          027                                 _53
Median                                   29%
Mode                      ---                       ~~~~~        ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~020  .......liL'.................  ................... . ..........   3975
Mode--                                                                                                                                                  n
Standard   D eviation                      7%                    .t ,O t 3  ........................................................................................ .
Variance                                   1%                    -l
Skewness -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 0 X           007 '''' ...............  ll | li.......  ..,.-                           13,25 
Skewness                                 -W(L
Kurtosis                                  2.72                                 L
Coeff. of Variability                     0.25                         ,000    I                           30%                                  0
10%            20%/            0               0/             50%/
Range Minimum                              5%                                                 Certainty is 99,40% from 12% to +Infinity %
Range Maximum                             51%
Range Width                               45%
Mean Std. Error                        0.16%
70



Table A4.7.
Risk Analysis (Monte Carlo Analysis) of roads under IDA financing
Assumptions used
Assumption: Cost
Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                       -20%
Likeliest                       0%
Maximum                        50%
Selected range is from -20% to 50%
Mean value in simulation was 10%
Assumption: Traffic
Triangular distribution with parameters:                                         _
Minimum                       -30%
Likeliest                       0%
Maximum                        30%
Selected range is from -30% to 30%
Mean value in simulation was 0%
71



Annex 5: Financial Analysis
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
Annex 5-A, Table A: Financial Summary
(US$ rnillion)
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              156.5    183.5    181.6    182.0   703.6
Recurrent Costs
Total Pro.ject Costs             156.5   183.5   181.6   182.0   703.6
Total Financing                  156.5   183.5   181.6   182.0   703.6
Financing
IDA                               56.0     38.5     39.5    28.1   162.0
Government                         3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4    13.5
Road Maintenance Fund             49.4    49.4    49.4    49.4   197.8
Other Donors (see list below)     47.7    92.1      89.3    82.7   311.8
To be financed                                               18.5    18.5
Total Project Financing          156.5   183.5   181.6   182.0   703.6
Other Donors            Amount in US$ million equivalent
ADB                                     45.2
ASDI                                    31.0
BADEA                                    6.2
IDB                                      8.9
DANIDA                                   6.0
DFID                                     7.2
EU                                     115.0
IFAD                                     7.5
IRLANDA                                  2.2
JICA                                    10.0
KFW                                     21.0
NDF                                     10.0
NORAD                                    3.8
OPEC Fund                                7.0
USAID                                   25.5
UNCDF                                    1.3
Others                                   4.1
Total Other Donors                    311.8
Source: ANE
72



Annex 5-B. Financial Analysis of the Road Fund
Overview and key assumptions
Financial appraisals have been carried out to assess the financial sustainability of the Road Fund for the project
and the program as a whole. Cost recovery in the road sector is assessed, taking into account the already
established user-charge systems.
The financial analysis is based on two key assumptions: (a) reform of the road sector and its further
development will operate increasingly on the user pays principle; and (b) the private sector will perform all of
the rehabilitation and maintenance works, and therefore prices will be set by supply and demand.
Road network and condition
The description of the road network in Mozambique as of December 31, 1999 is presented in Table A5.2. The
road network comprises about 28,000 kilometers of roads. The classified network consists of about 25,300
kilometers (90 percent of the total network); this includes about 4,300 kilometers of primary roads (17
percent), 7,900 kilometers of secondary roads (31 percent) and 13,100 of tertiary roads (52 percent). Some
5,300 kilometers are paved roads, 6,900 kilometers are gravel roads and some 16,000 kilometers are earth
roads.
Table A5.1 summarizes the structure and conditions of Mozambique's road network. Details are provided in
Table A5.3.
Table A5.1 Structure and condition of Mozambique's road classified network
In kilometers                         In percent
Good       Fair      Poor       Total      Good       Fair      Poor
Primary roads             1,531      1,851       853      4,235        36         44         20
Secondary roads          2,100      3,420      2,116      7,636        28         45         28
Tertiary roads           2,729      4,499      5,868     13,097        21         34         45
Without information                                         301
Total country            6,360      9,770      8,837     25,268
25%        39%       35%
73



Republic of Mozamnbque
Road Netvork - December 1999 (In Kin)
Table A5.2.
Population
Province            Surface  PFP  latlo    density            Classified Roads                 RoadNetvork                  Tertiaryads                        Tve_ of Roads
sq Km      (000)    per sq Km           econd   Tertiary  Total  Classified Non Clas.  Total   Classified Non Clas1. Total    Paved   Graveled   Faith      Total
Cabo Delgado          82,625      1,436         17       165      977   1,380   2,522      2,522       59    2,581       1,380       59     1,439       633       586     1,431    2,650
Gaza                  75,709      1,173         15       163     771   1,033   1,967       1,967      379    2,346       1,033      379     1,412       455     1,126      837     2,418
Inhanbane             68,615      1,222         18      559      254   1,498   2,311       2,311      213    2,524       1,498      213     1,711       617       431     1,524    2,572
Manica                61,661      1,104         18       502      377   1,085   1,964      1,964      197    2,161       1,085      197     1,282       578       993      632     2,203
Maputo                26,358      1,907         72       440      390     660   1,490      1,490      -       1,490       660       -        660        410       373      744     1,527
Nanpula               81,606      3,196         39      734       928   1,947   3,609      3,609      195    3,804       1,947      195    2,142        536     1,392     1,974    3,902
Nias s a             129,056        849          7       188      952     916   2,056      2,056      696    2,752        916       696     1,612       192       710     2,034    2,936
Sofala               68,018       1,424         21      554       870     981   2,405      2,405       58    2,463        981        58     1,039       434       178     1,894    2,506
Tete                 100,724      1,288         13      262    1,033   1,374   2,669       2,669      243    2,912       1,374      243     1,617       881       215     1,985    3,081
Zarnrbzia            105,008      3,241         31      709    1,328   2,239   4,276       4,276      684    4,960       2,239      684    2,923        529       874     3,759    5,162
Total Country        799,380     16,840         21     4,276    7,880  13,113  25,269    25,269    2,724   27,993       13,113    2,724    15,837     5,265     6,878    16,814    28,957
17%     31%      52%  100%         90%       10%     100%t
74



Republic of Mozahbique
Road Netwrk - December 1999
Condition of ClassifiedN etirk (In Km)
Tabie A5.3.
Prouince                       Primary Roads                   Secon  Rva                       Terti   Roads                  ClassifiedNetwork
Good   Fair   Poor   Toal    Good   Fair   Poor   Total    Good   Fair   Poor   Total    Good   Fair   Poor   Total
Cabo Delgado               84              80    165       323    460    194    977         53    623    704   1,380       460   1,083    979   2,522
Gaza                      163                     163      509    158    102    769        288      33    712   1,033       960    191    815   1,965
Inhanbane                 354    116       89    559        95    159      -      254      237    354    907   1,498        686    629    996   2,311
Manica                    228    223       51    502       214    163      -      377      298    676      Ill.  1,085      740   1,063    162   1,965
Maputo                    256      52    133    440        -       22    366    389          7      97     555    660       263     171   1,054   1,489
Nanpula                   155    384    155    694         259    162    507    928        440    556    951   1,947        853   1,102   1,613   3,569
Niassa                     -      100      88    188       227    394    331    952         76    432    408    916         303    925    827   2,056
Sofala                    -       389    165    554        -      331    505    836        -       614    367    981        -     1,334   1,037   2,371
Tete                      -       262     -       262      122    671      33    826       448    380    546   1,374        570   1,312    579   2,462
Zambezia                  291    326       92    709       350    900      77   1,328      882    734    608   2,223    1,523   1,960    776   4,260
Total Country            1,531   1,851    853   4,235    2,100   3,420   2,116   7,636    2,729   4,499   5,868  13,097    6,360   9,770   8,837  24,967
36%    44%    20%               28%    45%    28%               21%    34%    45%                25%    39%    35%
Without infonnation                               40.2                           244.4                              16                             300.6
4,275                           7,880                           13,1131                         25,268
75



Key issues
The key issues of road infrastructure in Mozambique remain to: (a) establish financing mechanisms based
on the user pays principles to ensure a sufficient, timely, stable and secure flows of funds for routine,
periodic maintenance, and counterpart funds for rehabilitation of roads; (b) set up and implement an
independent financial management system for the Road Fund; (c) base resource allocation on clear
priorities identified during the road sector strategy process and/or on econormic evaluation; (d) reduce the
maintenance cost unit of the network throughout the country by introducing systematic competitive
bidding process; and (e) improve road safety.
Proposed reform of roads maintenance rinancing
It is proposed to restructure the existing Road Fund, which is still a department of ANE, and create an
independent Road Fund, autonomous entity from ANE, clearly separating the financing functions (Road
Fund) from the execution function (ANE). The Road Fund, in a first phase, will be mainly dedicated to
financing of road maintenance. The financing of the maintenance of the urban streets will be introduced at
a later stage. Simultaneously, it is proposed to introduce a sustainable road maintenance financing system
based on: (a) road maintenance user charges set at levels to generate sufficient resources to cover full
routine maintenance, and gradually full periodic maintenance (by end of Phase 3); (b) prompt and timely
payment to the Road Fund (during Phase 1) and direct payment from the petroleum companies to the
Road Fund, without transiting through the ministry of finance by the beginning of Phase 2. A contribution
from the investment budget (orcamento geral do estado), will be channeled through the Road Fund, for
counterpart funds for rehabilitation of roads.
Future road sector financial requirements for maintenance
Table A5.9. (at the end of this Annex) summarizes the estimated annual requirements for routine and
periodic maintenance and government's needs for counterpart funds. The maintenance needs are based
on ROCS 2 achievements and the planned rehabilitation component for Phase 1 of the APL. The figures
are summarized in kilometers in Table A5.7. below.
Table A5.7. Roads Maintenance minimum requirements (kilometers)
ROAD FUND
Maintenance requirements
in Kms                 2002    2003    2004    2005
Maintainable Network                   14,450   15,150  15,850   16,550
Routine maintenance                    12,840   13,335  13,835   14,345
Periodic maintenance                    1,510    1,940   2,020    2,060
in% of roadnmaintenable netmork    __ _  ___ _
Routine maintenance                      89%      88%    87%      87%
lPeriodic tmintenance                    10 7     13%    13%      12%
76



Based on ANE's unit costs data base, the estimated amount of funding required to adequately cover the
requirements for routine and periodic maintenance of roads are presented in table A5.8.
Table A5.8. Roads Maintenance requirements (US$ Million)
ROAD FUND
Maintai iance requirements (Civil works)
in US$ million equivalent        2002      2003     2004      2005
Routine mnaintenance                         10.5     11.0    11.0       11.5
Periodic itaintenance                       42.0      52.5    53.0       50.0
Total                                       52.50    63.50    64.00     61.50
Routine maintenance                          20%       17%      17%      19%
Periodic maintenance                         80%       83%     83%       81
On the basis of the proposed reforms, indicative financial cash flow projections have been developed in line
with the proposed financial adjustments (see Table A5.9. at the end of this Annex). Financial forecasts were
built on demand projections and assumptions for road maintenance user charges, contributions from the
investment budget and financing plans from the funding agencies contributing to periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation. Road maintenance user charges have been calculated on the basis of the actual network to reach
a sustainable yearly financial equilibrium between sources and uses of funds for road maintenance by 2005.
They have also been computed to reach levels to fully meet road maintenance needs (full routine needs, and
gradually increasing contributions for periodic maintenance until user charges fully finance requirecl periodic
maintenance of roads by the end of Phase 3 of the APL). This will allow the gradual reduction of external
financing of periodic rr,aintenance during phase two.
Failure to introduce. recover and properly manage required road maintenance user fees during implementation
of Phase I would lead to reconsideration of the size of the proposed road rehabilitation component of Phase 2
and 3. and would induce a process to prioritize the allocation of the now limited financial resources between
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance.
The government plans to introduce the new road financing system and user charges by end 2001. By the end
of Phase 2 of the APL, the new system is expected to generate sufficient revenues to cover roads maintenance
needs. The proposed average road maintenance charges for APL-1 are summarized below:
Table A5.10 Maintenance user fees (US cents per liter)
Proposed Maintenance User Fee in US$ cents per liter  2002    2003    2004    2005
Average Road Maintlenance U-ser Fee                    9.       9.      10.      10.
*Road Maintenancc User Fee Gasoil                      9.       9.      10.      10.
* Road Maintenance tUser Fee Petrol                     9.      9.5    10.       10.
* in US$ cents per liter
Based on these figures and the proposed rehabilitation program for Phase one of the APL, the financial
allocation to the road sector for the period 200(1-2005 can be summarized as follows:
77



Table A5.11 Minimum Revenues required for Road Fund (US$ million)
Financial Allocation to the Road Sector in US$ million  2002    2003    2004    2005
Fromrodtenaceusefeespaidto teRdFn3                          44
From _OM~s bwes'm   But                                 374      3.4     3.4   'X'';;3.4
78



Table A5.5 Impostos sobre os combustiveis (fuel tax) amounts and contributions to the Road Fund
Amount                       to Road Fund
In Mts/L    In US$cents/L    In % % Mts/L    In 'US$cents/L
Decree No 22/90 dated 09/24/90
Establish the ISC and                petrol            300.00                              100%
allocation to Road Fund              gasoi]              5.00                               60%
Decree No 27/92 dated 09/30192
Modify                               petrol            300.00                               50%
allocation to Road Fund              gasoil              5.00                               60%
Decree No 30/94 dated 08/16/94
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Normal"     1,178.00           0.20                50%           0.10
allocation to Road Fund          petrol "Super"      1,539.00           0.26                50%           0.13
gasoil           292.00           0.05                 60%          0.03
Decree No 2/95 dated 01/24/95
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Normal"     1,178.00                               50%
allocation to Road Fund          petrol "Super"      1,650.00                               50%
gasoil           292.00                                60%
Decree No 15/95 dated 01/25/95
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Normal"     1,178.00                               50%
allocation to Road Fund          petrol "Super"      2,006.00                               50%
gasoil           321.00                                60%
Decree No 35/95 dated 08/08/95
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Normal"     1,178.00           0.13        671.40 Mts/L          0.08
allocation to Road Fund          petrol "Super"      2,299.00           0.26       1,100.00 Mts/L         0.12
gasoil           372.00           0.04                 80%          0.03
Decree No 31/97 dated 10/07/97
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Normal"     1,178.00           0.10        671.40 Mts/L          0.06
allocation to Road Fund          petrol "Super"      3,307.80           0.29       1I,100.00 Mts/L        0.10
gasoil          1,825.00          0.16 80% or 1,460.00 MtsQ         0.13
Estimate in 12/2000
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Super"      3,307.80           0.19       1,100.00 Mts/L         0.06
allocation to Road Fund              gasoil          1,825.00           0.11 80% or 1,460.00 Mts/L       0.086
Estimate in 03/01
Adjust the ISC and               petrol "Super"      3.307.80           0.19       1,100.00 Mts/L         0.06
allocation to Road Fund              gasoil          1,825.00           0.11 80% or 1,460.00 Mts/L       0.080
79



Table A5.9 Road Fund: Sources and Uses of funds, 2002-2005
(in US$ million equivalent)
Road and bridge Fees                                               2.50     2.50     2.50      2.50
Road Maintenance user Fee                                        37.17    41.71     46.80    49.90
Subtotal                                                        39.7     44.2     49.3      52.4
Investment budget                                                   3.4      3.4      3.4       3.4
1. Total SOURCES                                                  43.0     47.6      52.7     55.8
Roads civil works
Routine Maintenance                                               10.50    11.00     11.00    11.50
Periodic Maintenance                                              42.00    52.50    53.00    50.00
Subtotal civil works                                           52.50    63.50    64.00    61.50
Engineering services
Routine Maintenance                                                0.32     0.33     0.33      0.35
Periodic Maintenance                                               4.20     5.25     5.30      5.00
Subtotal engineering services                                   4.52     5.58      5.63     5.35
Contingencies on civil works                                      4.20     5.08      5.12     4.92
Subtotal Road Maintenance Program                               61.2     74.2      74.8     71.8
ANE & Road Fund Management Expenses                               2.35      2.49     2.49     2.48
Contribution to rehabilitation financed by                         3.4       3.4      3.4      3.4
the Investment budget (counterpart funds)
2. Total USES                 I                                   66.9      80.0     80.6     77.6
Gap to be financed. Gap = (1-2)                              1     (24)1    (32)1    (28)1    (22)
IDA financing                                                      9.42     9.42     11.52    11.52
DFID, SIDA, DANIDA, NORAD contribtion to routine maintenance       0.65     0.65     0.65      0.65
KFW committed                                                        6        6
EU comunitted (9th FED finaced by 8th FED)                           6        15       15
Other donors to be comrnited: DFID, IFAD, DANIDA, NORAD,USAid       2.0      3.0      3.4       1.0
Am    T,ONEm'- 3m I    NO
Cumulative cash flow balance                                         0        2         4       (4)
Nb m3 gasoil.                                                   316.O0   336.      358.000   382.000
Nb m3 gas:                                                       97.000   103.     110.000   117.000
80



Annex 5-C. Financial Management Action Plan
General
1.     Reporting to the Chairman of the ANE Board, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be carried out
in a manner acceptable to the Government, the ANE Board, the World Bank and other donors'.
2.     The principal objective of the ANE's financial management system (FMS) is to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that
will serve the developmental needs of the roads sector in Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS
must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information
that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the program's/project's
overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
3.     For ANE to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS is being developed in
accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Section B below.
Financial Management Action Plan
Financial Management Committee
4.     Reporting to the Chairman of the ANE Board, a representative Financial Management
Committee (FMC) will be appointed to review the Project Management Report (PMR) every
quarter. The PMR will consist of:
a.     Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMC will review and approve
Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances
between budget/actual figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed
timeframe.
b.     Project Progress, i.e. Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the
OMR is being developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying
narrative interpreting the project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators
and how costs to date relate to those planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the
project by completion.
c.     Procurement Management Report (including Goods, Works and Services). The format
and details of the Procurement Management Report are being developed.
Staffing
5.     The CFO, supported by the Chief Accountant, will direct and guide the financial
operations of ANE. A Chief Financial Internal Auditor, and some assistants, will be appointed to
strengthen the recently established internal audit function.
I The responsibility for the transactions and control of funds for the routine maintenance component rests with the Road Fund, a separate
implementing Directorate within the ANE, that will become an independent legal entity at a future date. A separate FMS, as referred to in
paragraph 7, is being implemented for the Road Fund. Copies of the Fund's audited financial statements and management letters will be provided
annually to the Bank within 6 months after the financial year end.
81



6.    Varying levels of staff training will be provided (under IDA financing) in financial and
management accounting; information systems and computer applications; and procedures relating
to the utilization of funds (e.g. Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement,
etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.
Manual of Administrative and Accounting Procedures/Accounting System
7.    A firm of consultants has recently been retained on terms of reference approved by the
Bank for the supply and installation of, training in, and support of two autonomous Financial
Management Software Systems (FMSs) for the ANE and the Road Fund. The two systems,
supported by detailed Operating Manuals, will be developed from a similar platform to allow for
potential future integration and will be installed in 2 phases: Phase 1 functionality will support
essential budgeting, disbursement and reporting processes within ANE and the Road Fund,
including LACI/PMR reporting; Phase 2 will add additional functionality to support ANE's
management of it's Roads Program, including work flow management, expansion of
organizational scope, addition of other general accounting modules and interfacing with the
HNMS (roads inventory) system.
8.    As a transitional arrangement, until such time as the new FMS is operating satisfactorily,
the project accounts will be maintained using ANE's present accounting system (i.e. a
combination of the HOGIA accounting package and Excel), supported as appropriate with
manual records. That system is documented in a Manual of Administrative and Accounting
Procedures
Planning and Budgeting
9.    Counterpart funding will be approved in line with the Government's, the Road Fund's
and the ANE's budgetary processes. The CFO, in consultation with the DEN, DER, DA, Road
Fund and FMC, will be responsible for preparing, in line with generally accepted accounting
practice, the project's Annual Cash Flow Forecast (analyzed by quarter) for approval by the ANE
Board.
Basis of Accounting
10.   Following Credit effectiveness, the project funds will be accounted for on an accruals
basis.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
11.   World Bank and Government procurement procedures will be observed. The project
accounting and support staff will be conversant with those procedures, as internal control issues
and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of the project will be matters of concern to the financial
management function.
12.   Procurement procedures will be documented in the Project Implementation Plan. A
Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will
be prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC (see above).
82



Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
13.   The ANE will maintain four (4) accounts as follows:
a.    Special Account with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in US Dollars, that will show
(i) Dollar/Meticais cost of direct payments to suppliers; (ii) Dollar advances (Meticais
equivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Loan Account; and (iii) opening and closing
balances.
b.    Project Account in Meticais with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which
counterpart funds (Meticais) will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be
provided and, thereafter, it will be replenished monthly.
c.    Project Account in Dollars with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which
counterpart funds (Dollars) will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be
provided and, thereafter, it will be replenished monthly.
d.    IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Meticais/SDR, that will show (i)
cost of transfers to the Special Account; (ii) cost of direct payments to suppliers; and (iii)
opening and closing balances.
14.   All project bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified differences will be
expeditiously investigated. Control procedures are documented in the Manual of Administrative
and Accounting Procedures.
Withdrawals/Disbursements
15.   By Credit effectiveness, the ANE will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the
short term, existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook will be followed, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments.
However, the appointment of the CFO, coupled with the development of the ANE's financial
management system, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18
months of Credit effectiveness. In that regard, a financial management review of the project will
be undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist within 12 months of Credit
effectiveness to assess progress.
Fixed Assets/Consultants/Civil Works
16.   Control procedures are documented in the Manual of Administrative and Accounting
Procedures. A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked.
Regarding Construction/Capital Work in Progress, controls will be established to ensure that
payments are made only for certified work (including physical verification). An Invoicing
Control Schedule will be maintained on a spreadsheet for all contracts with consultants. A
Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will
be prepared quarterly for review by the FMC.
Financial Reporting (Monthly, Quarterly, and Annually)
17.   Monthly: The CFO will be responsible for preparing a Monthly Return (Statement of
Expenses - "Prestac6es de Contas") to the Road Fund and the Ministry of Public Works for
83



consolidation into the National Accounts of Mozambique by the Ministry of Planning and
Finance.
18.    Quarterly and Annually: The Financial Statements will include:
a.     A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds for IDA and Counterpart Funds2;
b.     project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
c.     Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or
explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management to enhance the presentation
of a "true and fair view";
d.     A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds;
e.     SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
f.     A Cash Forecast for the year, analyzed by quarter.
19.    Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications
- Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and the Draft Project Financial
Management Manual (February 1999). The formats adopted by the FMC will be documented in the
Manual of Administrative and Accounting Procedures.
External Audit
20.    Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. Audited financial statements for the ANE (project) and the Road Fund
will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the financial year end. Besides expressing a
primary opinion on the financial statements in compliance with International Auditing Standards, as
promulgated by the International Federation of Accountants, the auditor will be required to include a
separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding
the Special Account, the auditor will be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with
World Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally, the auditor/s will be required to
prepare separate Management Letters for the ANE (project) and the Road Fund, giving observations and
comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls
and compliance with financial covenants. Periodic technical audits for the ANE (project) and the Road
Fund will also be undertaken.
2 In due course, once the new FMS is fully operational, the expectation is that a Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds will be
produced comprising: (i) a summary of funds received analyzed by Cooperating Partner i.e. showing funds from IDA, Counterpart Funds and
other Donors separately, and (ii) a summary of expenditures, analyzed by Cooperating Partner, shown under the main Project headings and by
main categories of expenditures, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date.
84



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
Procurement methods (Table A)
General: Procurement packaging for works, goods and consulting services, will wherever possible, be
structured so as to support: (a) the development of the local contracting and consulting industry and (b)
the use of labor intensive methods to generate employment for rural poor. ANE will implement the
project with technical assistance from advisory consultants and engineering support program. ANE will
be responsible for planning, designing, preparation of road programs and procurement administration for
civil works, goods and consulting services. The project will provide funding to support road
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and the emergency civil works, but the funding for routine
maintenance will come from the Road Fund. The procurement for routine maintenance will be carried out
by the DEP in each province in accordance with the Road Maintenance Manual under preparation by
ANE.
Procurement Notices: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development
Business Forum after the negotiations and at least 60 days prior to the issue of the bidding documents.
The GPN will be updated annually for all intemational procurement. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN)
will be advertised in accordance with the Bank guidelines for all ICB works contracts and the preparation
of short lists with respect to consulting contracts above US$200,000.
Procurement Planning: A draft procurement plan for the Phase 1 has been prepared and will be included
in the PIP. The procurement plan will be reviewed and updated at least one month prior to the start of
each project year. The procurement plan include 173 contracts (74 civil works, 44 consultants' contracts
for engineering services and 55 consultants' contracts for management support and technical studies. The
average number of contracts per year will be about 43.
Civil Works: Estimated to cost US$601.6 million (IDA financing US$122.4 million) will include civil
works for routine maintenance (100% financed by the Road Fund), road rehabilitation, periodic
maintenance, road safety and emergency works. Civil works amounting to an estimated amount of
US$465.2 millions are expected to be financed by the Road Fund and other donors. No special
exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), since ANE's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any
contrary provisions and local regulations. The bidding documents shall include detailed bill of quantities,
technical specifications, the required completion date, basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA and
relevant drawings where applicable. The awards would be made to the contractors who's tender is
assessed on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. Procurement of works to be financed by IDA will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996; September 1997, January 1999, and
May 2000)". Pre-qualification will be required for larger contracts estimated to cost over US$10 million
equivalent. The contracts with an estimated value US$500,000 equivalent or above will be awarded on
the basis of ICB. Smaller contracts (individual value less than US$500,000 equivalent) will be awarded
on the basis NCB (with an aggregate amount not greater than US$15 million). The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for contracts above US$300,000. For contracts less than
US$300,000 a simplified form of the Bank's SBD for Smaller Contracts will be used.
85



Under NCB, up to an aggregate value of US$22.3 million, the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods
used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are made known to all the bidders and not be applied
arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of
bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in the bidding documents; (iv) no
preference margin is granted to domestic contractors; (v) interested eligible foreign firns are not
precluded from participation; (vi) award of contract will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder
substantively responsive to the bidding documents in accordance with pre-determined and pre-
announced/published and transparent methods; (vii) the bid evaluation reports will clearly state the
reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, the draft standard
bidding documents prepared by ANE will be subrnitted to IDA and found acceptable.
The provision for direct contracting (value less than US$300,000 per contract and aggregate value
US$6.3million) based on engineer's estimate, will be used for emergency works. Historically, the roads
in low lying areas of Mozambique are subject to floods once in two or three years whenever there are
heavy rains. These roads are closed to traffic and the important towns in the country get disconnected. In
such unforeseen situations, ANE has only one option of restoring traffic by carrying out repairs works on
emergency basis. The emergency repairs works will be awarded using direct contracting procedures
without competition (single source) in accordance with section 3.7 of IDA procurement guidelines
referred above.
Goods. Estimated to cost US$2.5 millions (IDA financing US$1.2 million), include goods, vehicles,
office equipment and other supplies. Procurement of goods to be financed by IDA will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996; September 1997, and January 1999, and May 2000) "
Goods contract valued at US$200,000 and more will be procured through ICB. However, goods contract
under ICB is not foreseen. Procurement of equipment, office furniture and supplies estimated to cost less
than US$200,000, will be procured through NCB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and
more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract and, up to an aggregate of US$200,000 may be procured
through international shopping and the goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 may be procured through national shopping on
the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers, and after evaluation of the bids
which would be received in writing.
Consultant Services, training and studies: Estimated to cost US$83.9 million (IDA financing US$35.7
million) would be for: (i) engineering services for the preparation of detailed design, tender documents,
feasibility studies, supervision of works, and data collection, (ii) technical assistance for advisory
services, accounting and financial management, procurement, audits and impact analysis; (iii) short-term
consultant services on specific technical matters including material investigations, highway management
system, economics and statistics, and the design of training courses; (iv) training abroad and locally of
ANE, Road Fund and MOPW staff. Consultants financed by IDA, would be hired in accordance with the
methods provided in the Bank's "Guidelinesfor the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999". Selection of
consultants will be done through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection
will be based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal
before comparing the cost of the services to be provided; and Consultant Qualifications (CQ) by
evaluating consultants' experience and competence and select the firm with the most appropriate
qualification and references. Individual consultants can be selected in accordance with section 5 of the
guidelines. Single source selection may be allowed in exceptional cases after adequate justification and
prior review by IDA. For training abroad and in-country, the program, containing names of candidates,
cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training, institution selection would be reviewed
annually. For inviting consultants proposals, the Bank document "Standard Requestfor Proposal (SRFP)
86



for Consulting Services, April 1998" will be used for the preparation of solicitation package and standard
form of consultant's contract. Simplified form of contracts will be used for short-term contracts and
simple assignments of standard nature (and not exceeding 6 months) carried out by individual consultants
or firms.
Implementation Arrangements: APLI is estimated to cost US$703.6 million. IDA will finance US$162
million with the remaining funding from (a) Government investment budget; (b) Road Fund; and (c) other
donors. IDA financing will support civil works for road rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, emergency
works, road safety emergency works, goods, consulting services for design and supervision of civil
works, institutional reforms and capacity building activities, and training. ANE will be responsible for the
procurement of all project tasks including: (a) maintaining a register of all interested bidders; (b)
maintaining a detailed list of technical specifications of goods and services to be financed by the project;
(c) preparation of the procurement plan and calendar; (d) preparation and/or finalization of pre-
qualification/bidding documents and requests for proposals; (e) bid evaluation and preparation of
evaluation reports; (f) contract approval process; (g) receipt of goods and services and dispatching; and
(h) maintaining a data base for international and local price quotations. The procurement for the routine
maintenance works financed by the Road Fund, will be carried out by the DEP in each province.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: ANE responsible for implementing RBMM program has
considerable experience with local and international procurement procedures. ANE/former DNEP has
implemented two IDA financed roads projects and its staff is aware of IDA requirements with regard to
procurement. In the previous projects, the handling of the procurement functions has been found in
general satisfactory. Nevertheless the following weakness were observed: (a) untimely and incornplete
procurement planning; (b) inadequate updating of the existing procurement documentation; (c) lack of
procurement expertise to handle complex situations such as settling of contractor's claims; (d) insufficient
control over the payment of Contract Price Adjustments and (e) delay in completion of contacts compared
with the agreed time schedules. These weaknesses could be explained by the fact that there is no
centralized procurement unit within ANE, although ANE engineers have considerable experience in
procurement. An assessment of the ANE' s procurement capacity was carried out during the pre-appraisal
mission. This judgement assessed the overall risk as average. To mitigate the risk, important measures are
being undertaken under the program which primarily include: (a) planning and implementation of
capacity building program in procurement for the National Roads Directorate which will be responsible
for the management of all procurement functions, (b) continuation of the two technical assistance
specialists, who are currently responsible for engineering advice but also provide support in handling
procurement one for pre-contract award and the other for the post-contract stages of the road projects; (c)
training of two local engineers, who are currently responsible for the pre contract award and post contract
award functions in addition to the their engineering functional responsibilities; and (d) under the Phase 1
of the project, a provision for IDA financed technical assistance particularly for (i) updating of bidding
documents; (ii) strengthening of contract management; (iii) resolving complex issues in procurement
including contractor's claims and disputes (iv) providing training to ANE staff and (v) provide advice and
assistance to the all Directors of Provinces in procurement matters, who are responsible for the
implementation of routine maintenance programs in provinces. An action plan to include these activities
has been agreed with ANE and will be followed during the implementation of the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior and post review by the Bank for Works and Goods contracts. The review process would cover
over 75 percent of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and about 95 percent of the amount
contracted for civil works. Selective post review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will
apply to one in three contracts. All IDA-financed works and goods contracts to be procured under ICB
will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. All IDA-financed
87



works contracts to be procured under NCB estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more per
contract will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. All IDA-
financed goods contracts to be procured under NCB and International Shopping (IS) estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 (for NCB) and US$50,000 (for IS) or more per contract will be subject to prior
review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. All other contracts under these thresholds
will be subject to post review.
Prior and post review by the Bank for Consultant contracts. For consultant services, prior review will
include the review of budgets, short-lists, selections procedures, terms of reference, letters of invitation,
proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the
recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000
equivalent respectively. However, IDA prior review will apply to the Terms of Reference of such
contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by
IDA (TA staff, and financial audits, etc.) or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above
the prior review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above the US$100,000, opening of the
financial proposals will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical
evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and more than US$ 50,000 the
borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. ANE will be required to
maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. ANE will submit to
IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement package in progress and completed as
part of the normal project reporting exercise.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
All supervision missions (3 per year) will include a procurement accredited staff.
Disbursements
Disbursements will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Disbursement Handbook. The project
is expected to be completed over a four period, by December 31, 2004, and the Credit is expected to be
closed by June 30, 2005. The proposed allocation of the IDA Credit is shown in Table C below. All
applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures for
goods and works under contract not exceeding US$50,000 and US$300,000 equivalent respectively; and
consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, consultants' services
(individuals) under contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent. For operating costs and training,
reimbursement may be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). ANE will be responsible for
preparing withdrawal applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA, and will indicate on the SOEs the
nature and origin of any goods and the payment date. These will be retained along with all other
supporting documentation for review by Bank supervision missions and independent auditors.
Table C indicates the disbursement schedule, the amounts (in US$) for each expenditure category, percent
of total and the disbursement percentage applicable to each. The disbursement percentages have been
calculated on a tax-inclusive basis such that, when applied to invoices denominated in local currency, the
percentage not financed by the Bank be sufficient to cover government counterpart contributions and
eliminate any Bank financing of local taxes and duties.
88



US$ million Expenditures
1. Civil Works
(i). Civil Works Routine
(ii). Civil Works Periodic Maintenan,   36.6  23%
(iii). Civil Works Rehabilitation  52.5       32%
(iv). Civil Works Rural Roads     15.7        10%
(v). Civil Works Emergency         6.3         4%
(vi). Civil Works Road Safety     6.1          4%
Subtotal Civil Works                    117.2        72%
2. Goods                                  1.7         1%
3. Consulants' Services
(i). Engineering Services         13.8         8%
(ii). Studies & Expertise         13.2         8%
(iii). Technical Assistance to ANE  5.0        3%
(iv). Training                    2.5          2%
Subtotal Consulting Services             34.5        21%
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
The project implementing agency, ANE, will use SOE procedures in which expenditures are sunimarized
by category. The documentation for withdrawals of SOEs would be retained by ANE for review by IDA
staff during supervision missions and for annual audits. SOEs will be used for payments of contracts of
less than US$50,000 for goods, of less than US$300,000 for works and consultant contracts of less than
US$100,000 and US$50,000 for firms and individuals respectively. SOEs will likewise be utilized for all
small equipment, office supplies and training.
Special account
To ensure that funds will be available when needed, one Special Account (SA) in US$ will be established
in local commercial banks under conditions satisfactory to IDA. This SA will be opened in the name of
ANE. The authorized allocation amount of the Special Account will be US$8.5 million. However, the
authorized allocation shall be limited to US$4.25 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from
the Credit account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments, shall equal or exceed
the equivalent of SDRl6 million. The amounts have been estimated to cover about three months of
expenditures, and would be withdrawn from the Credit account after effectiveness. ANE would have the
right to draw directly on these accounts for project expenditures without prior approval by the Ministry of
Finance and/or IDA. The Special Accounts would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence,
provided to IDA by ANE, of payments made from the account for goods and services required for the
project that are eligible for financing under the Credit. All supporting documents, claimed on the basis of
SOEs, will be retained by ANE, and made available for review by periodic Bank supervision missions
and external auditors.
89



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In US$ milion equivalent)
1. Civil Works                      106.3    23.5      -       6.6              465.2       601.6
_________________________________   (93.8)  (22.3)            (6.3)   _          -          (122.4)
2. Goods                              -       0.9      0.3      -                1.3          2.5
(0.9)    (0.3)                                 (1.2)
3. Services                               -             -       -       35.7    48.2         83.9
________       (35.7)     -         (35.7)
4. Training                               -             -       -       2.7      2.5          5.2
__ __          (2.7)      -          (2.7)
5. Other                              -        -        -       -       10.3                 10.3
Total                             106.3    24.4      0.3     6.6     48.8    517.3        703.6
(93.8)   (23.2)   (0.3)    (6.3)   (38.4)    -         (162.0)
(Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA credit)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to
be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text. Figure may not add due to rounding.
90



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (IDA Credit)
(In US$)
1. Civil Works                   >=500,000               ICB                    AU
< 500,000              NCB                  300,000
2. Goods                         >=200,000               ICB                    All
< 200,000              NCB                  100,000
200,000-100,000            IS                  50,000
<100,000                NS
3. Services
Firms
Design, Supervision, TA etc.   >100,000               QCBS                    AB
50,000-100,000            CQ                   TORs
<50,000                CQ                   TORs
Single Source           TORs
Individual                      <=50,000                CQ                   TORs
Single Source           TORs
Miscefeneous
Financial Auditors              <100,000               QCBS                   AU
Total vahle of contract subject to prior review: US$152 million
Prequaification US$ 10 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average     X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
91



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
:v e~~~~~~~~77=
1. Civil Works                                  117.2
(i). Civil Works Routine
(ii). Civil Works Periodic Maintenance         36.6                             75% of expenditures
(iii). Civil Works Rehabilitation              52.5                             80% of expenditures
(iv). Civfl Works Rural Roads                  15.7                             80% of expenditures
(v). Civil Works Emergency                     6.3                              80% of expenditures
(vi). Civil Works Road Safety                  6.1                              80% of expenditures
2. Goods                                         1.7             100% of foreign expenditures and 85%of local expenditures
3. Consulants' Services                         34.5
(i). Engineering Services                      13.8            100% of foreign expenditures and 85%of local expenditures
(ii). Studies & Expertise                      13.2            100% of foreign expenditures and 85%of local expenditures
(iii). Technical Assistance to ANE             5.0             100% of foreign expenditures and 85%of local expenditures
(iv). Trainingz                                2.5             100% of foreign expenditures and 85%of local expenditures
-                          ~~~~~~~100%
Unallocated                                      8.6
Total Credit Amount                             162.0
92



Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds. Local and Foreign
Expei)lwitin  Catgory                               AwutIn US$ million
Total               LPeal
1. Civil Works                                117.2                25.6            91.6
0 (i). Civil Works Routine
(ii). Civil Works Periodic Maintenance       36.6                 0.6             36.0
(iii). Civil Works Rehabilitation            52.5                14.8             37.8
(iv). Civil Works Rural Roads                15.7                 6.1             9.6
(v). Civil Works Emergency                   6.3                  2.4            :3.8
(vi). Civil Works Road Safety                6.1                  1.7             4.5
2. Goods                                       1.7                 0.2              1.5
3. Consulants' Services                       34.5                 5.8             28.7
(i). Engineering Services                    13.8                 2.7             11.1
(ii). Studies & Expertise                    13.2                 1.7            1]1.5
(iii). Technical Assistance to ANE           5.0                  0.7             4.4
(iv). Training                               2.5                  0.7             1.7
Refunding of PPF                                -                  0.0              0.0
Unallocated                                    8.6                  1.9             6.7
Total Credit Amount                           162.0                33.5            128.5
* All amounts excluding all taxes
93



Annex 6, Table E: Disbursement by year
(in US$ million)
IDA Disbursement
Annual           36.9       38.2      38.9      40.1        8.0
Cumulative       36.9       75.1     113.9      154.0     162.0
Percentage        23%       46%        70%       95%       100%
Other financiers Disbursement (including GOM and Road Fund)
r_AFV' 2*2 I4f2O
Annual           80.5      120.2     143.4      114.5      83.0
Cumulative       80.5      200.7     344.1     458.6      541.6
Percentage        15%       37%       64%        85%      100%
Total Project Disbursement
Annual          117.4      158.4     182.2      154.6      91.0
Cumulative      117.4      275.8     458.0     612.6      703.6
Percentage        17%       39%        65%       87%      100%
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
94



Annex 6, Table F: Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ million)
_**ct cost b6r co       at (APLA)                               201   2003   2004  20         Tota
A. Roads & Bridges works
1. Routine Maintenance                                            10.6   11.7   13.4   14.6   50.3
2. Periodic Maintenance                                           47.0   54.2   58.8   64.0  224.1
3. Rehabilitation                                                 57.8   75.4   57.8   48.9  240.0
4. Rural Roads & Bridges                                          14.1   14.8   23.0   17.1   69.0
5. Emergency Works                                                 2.6    2.7    2.8    2.9   11.0
6. Road Safety                                                     1.3    4.0    4.4    1.1   10.9
7. Engineering Services for the Road Sector                       13.6   10.4   10.9   11.0   45.9
Subtotal Roads & Bridges works                                    147.0  173.2  171.2  159.8  651.1
B. Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening
1. Technical Studies & Assistance to the Road Sector               2.7    2.8    2.9    3.0   11.5
2. Expertise & Institutional Strengthening of ANE                  3.1    2.9    2.7    2.8   11.6
3. Training                                                        1.2    1.4    1.2    1.4    5.2
4. Support to Program & Project Management                         0.3    0.6    0.6    0.3    1.9
5. ANE, DEPs & Road Fund Operating Expenses                        2.3    2.5    2.7    2.9   10.3
Subtotal Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening                9.5   10.3   10.2   10.5   40.5
C. Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2
1. Assistance for Strategy formulation                                            0.2    0.4    0.6
2. General and Technical Studies & Expertise to the Road Sector                          11.4   11.4
Subtotal Strategy formulation & preparatory activities-Phase 2                     0.2   11.8   12.0
156.5  183.5  181.6  182.0  703.6
95



Annex 7 Project Processing Budget and Schedule
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
APrjectBudget (U000)                                Plane                  Actual
420                 380
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                19 months        24 months
First Bank mission (identification)                 05/20/1999             05/20/1999
Appraisal mission departure                         10/15/2000             03/12/2001
Negotiations                                        12/10/2000             05/04/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       04/15/2001             09/15/2001
Prepared by: ANE
Name                                      Specialty
Abdelmoula Ghzala (AFTTR)                 Sr. Infrastructure Specialist (Team Leader)
Subhash Seth (AFTTR)                      Highway Engineer
Philippe de Naurois (AFTTR)               Financial Analyst
Wendy Ayres (AFTTR)                       Environment and Social Development Specialist
Adelaide Barra (AFTTR)                    Task Team Assistant
Ayse Kudat/William Partridge              Social Development Specialist
Jose Paulo Kastrup (LEGAF)                Legal
Jose C. Janeiro (LOAAF)                   Disbursement
Anthony Hegarty (AFTS2)                   Senior Financial Management Specialist
Bernard Abeille                           Regional Procurement Advisor
Charlotte Bingham (AFTES)                 Sector Manager Environment
Nina Chee (AFTES)                         Operations Analyst (Environment)
96



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Draft Project Concept Document (PCD) and Departmental Review Meeting Minutes
(01/21/00)
* Quality Enhancement Review Minutes (03/10100)
* Quality Enhancement Review Minutes (01/16/01)
* Decision Meeting Minutes (2/23/01)
C. Other
* Identification mission BTO including aide-memoire
* Preparation missions BTO including aide-memoires
*  Preappraisal BTO including aide-memoire
* Appraisal mission BTO including aide-memoire
P Project Information Document
* Environmental Impact Assessment
*Including electronic files.
97



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOZAMBIQUE: Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
May 2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID    FY     Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA       GEF    Cancel.    Undisb.        Org    Frm Rev'd
P001808        2001  Mineral Resources Project (NRMCP)               0.00       18.00       0.00       0.00      17.53       0.00        0.00
P070305        2000  Coastal and Marine Biodiversity MGMT            0.00        5.60       0.00       0.00       5.00       3.22        0.00
P042039        2000  RAILWAY & PORT RESTR                            0.00      100.00       0.00       0.00      90.65      44.60        0.00
P070432        2000  Flood Emergency Recovery Project               0.00        30.00       0.00       0.00       0.13       1.26        0.00
P049874        2000  ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                          0.00       26.00       0.00       0.00      21.19       4.00        0.00
P052240        1999  NATIONAL WATER II                               0.00       75.00       0.00       0.00      68.53       9.01        0.00
P001799        1999  AGRIC SECTOR PEP                                0.00       30.00       0.00       0.00      25.17      12.49        0.00
P001786        1999  Education Sector Strategic Program(ESSP)        0.00       71.00       0.00       0.00      64.65      24.16        0.00
P039015        1998  NATIONAL WATER I                                0.00       36.00       0.00       0.00      27.71      12.73        0.00
P001759        1997  TRANSBORDER PARKS                               0.00        0.00       5.00       0.00       1.51       3.72        0.00
P001792        1996  HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                             0.00       98.70       0.00       0.00      39.64      51.76        0.00
P001804        1994  2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                             0.00      188.00       0.00       0.00      31.49      33.21       -2.01
P001780        1994  MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)                       0.00       30.00       0.00       0.00       7.10       7.57        7.34
P001797        1993  CAPACITY BUILDING(HU                            0.00       48.60       0.00       0.00       4.97       6.84        0.00
Total:          0.00      756.90       5.00        0.00    405.46     214.55         5.33
98



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval    Company                   Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1995           AEF Bonar                  0.26     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.26     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996           AEF Cahora Bassa           0.18     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.18     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997           Agrimo                     1.71    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.71     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996/00        BIM                        0.00     2.50   0.00    0.00    0.00     2.50     0.00     0.00
1998           BIM-INV                    0.00    0.30   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.30     0.00     0.00
2000           BMF                        0.00     0.20   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.20     0.00     0.00
1997           MOZAL                     55.00    0.00  65.00     0.00   49.50     0.00    58.50     0.00
1999           Maragra Sugar             10.30    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992           Polana Hotel               1.05    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.05     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000           SEF Ausmoz                 0.99     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997           SEF CPZ                    1.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997           SEF CTOX                   0.73    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.73     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000           SEF Cabo Caju              0.58     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.51     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999           SEF ROBEIRA                0.18    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.18     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:      71.98     3.00  65.00    0.00   55.12     3.00    58.50     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                         Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999                   SEF CTN                          0.67     0.00       0.00     0.00
1999                   SEF Extramac                     0.42      0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                   AEF Afristem                     0.57      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000                   BFE                             10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1996                   BIM                             10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000                   BIML                             2.00      0.00      0.30     0.0(
Total Pending Commitment:       23.66     0.00      0.30      0.0()
99



Annex 10: Mozambique Country at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan       Low.         -ahar
M ozambique    Africa  income           Development diamond*
31999
Population, mid-year (miltions)                        17.3      642      2417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method US$)                      230       Boo        410
GNP (Atlasmethod. USSbiltions)                          3.9      321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%f)                                        23         2.6       1.9                     /
Labor torce (%)                                        2.3        2.6       2.3      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, t893-99)                                per                             primary
oat   ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~     '~~~~~'~~~~~~' ~~capita                                            enrollment
Poverty(%SofpopulationDbebawnationalpovertyline)        69          -
Urban population (%oftotalpopulation)                   39        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (3ears)                        45        S0         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bths)                 134        92         77
Child malnutrition (%of children under 5)               26        32         43               Access to sate water
Access to improved water source (%of population)        32        43         64
NIliteracy (%of population age 15+)                     57        39         39
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)       71        78         96           -_ Mozambique
Mate                                                  79         85       102                 L Low-income group
Female                                                60         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1 998     1999        ..            .       .     .        
Economic ratios*
GDP (U9S$ billionS)                             ..     2.3        39        42
Gross domestic investment/GOP                   .      14.8      20.4      35.5                    Trade
ExportsofgoodsandserviceslGDP                   ..      82       11.7      13.4
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                     :.    -15.6          1.7      11.0
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                       .    -23.5       -38        52
Current account balance/GDP /a                 ..   -33.0       -20.5     -31.~7     Domestic                      Ivsmn
Interest payments/GDP lb                       ..       1         1. 5      1.S      Savings             X 1Inetn
Totaldebt/GDP                                  ..   191.1       214.3     1842
Total debt serviceexports /b                   ..    25.3        29.0      28.0
Present value of debt/exports //d               .        ..    538.0    202.0
1979-89 1989-99    1998         1999  1999-03                    Indebtednes
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 -0.9      5.7      12.0       9D        7A                 -Mozambique
GNP per capita                      -a6       3.6      93         6.4       5.1                        o
Exportsof goodsandservices          -8.9     142       6.5        8.3      31.1             -
'iSTRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                    *-    47.4        34.3      31.6    10T
Industry                                       ..    24.3        20.8      24.1    0so 
Manufacturing                                  ..      ..       10.5      12.6
- Services                                       ..    28.3       44.9      44.3      o
6 5F!l 94  96   96   97   98   99
Private consumption                            ..   104.3        89.0      78.8  9 59
Generalgovemmentconsumption                    ..    11.3         9.3      102
lmportsofgoodsandservices                      ..    38.6        30.5      37.9        -GDI                   .-GOP
1979-89 1989-99        1998      1999       Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                   7.3      42         7.0       5.4    60
Industry                                     -4.5      8.0       22.9      12.6    40
Manufacturing                                  ..    16.4        7.5      16.0
Services                                     10.0      5.7        9.9       7.9    20
Privateconsumption                           -2.3      3.2       118        8.7      o
Generalgovernmentconsumption                  -3.0    -5.1       322        9.3                        96   4  99   97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                     32       11.5      29.4      83.9    -20
Ilmportsofgoodsandservices                    -4.4      2.2       242       55.3            -     Eports      o  Inmports
Grossnationalproduct                         -1.9       5.9      11.8       8.6
100



PRICES and GOVERNM ENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                                           80
Consumer prices                                 ..    42.1        0.6       2.0    60
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..    47.4         3.8       52      40
Government finance                                                                  20
(% ofGDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                 ..    16.8       15.7      17.6      #REFP  94   95    96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                          ..      2.5       4.3       5.4
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -9.9       -6.5      -62               GDPdelator          o - CPI
TRADE
(LJS$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998      1999        Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Totalexports(fob)                               ..    105         248      260      1,SOO
Cashews                                       52       21        41        35
Prawns                                        23       39        73        75
Manufactures                                  ..        0        14        20      1,000
Total imports (cif)                             ..    723         868     1,346                      *     *l
Food                                           ..      ..        32        39       soo
Fuel and energy                                .        .        84        86
Capital goods                                                   211       307         o
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      92         95       97                       95 9    9
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                     ..       89         88       89                  u Exports     mirsports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    103         108       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                      ..    200         534       559       01
Importsofgoodsandservices                      ..    790        1,075     1,579                     3
Resource balance                               ..     -590       -540    -1,020     .io0
Net income                                               ,, -173  -256    -303
Net current transfers                           -.   -20{
Current account balance                         ..   -763        -796    -1,322     -
Financing items (net)                           ..    760        858      1,375        .
Changes in net reserves                         ..       3        -62      -53      40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..    204        625       669
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             32.6    744.9   11,850.3  12,691.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..   4,422      8,344     7,682
(BRD                                           ..      0          0         0                         9
IDA                                                  176       1,338      702                                1338
Totaldebtservice/e                              ..      69        159      214            1975
IBRD                                           .       0          0         0                                     204p 0
IDA                                                    6         12        16
Compositionof netresourceflows                                                                                       553
Official grants                               ..    573         674       428
Officialcreditors/t                           ..    147          14       191
Privatecreditors                              ..      11         43       344
Foreign direct investment                      ..      3        213       392
Portfolio equity                              ..26
World Bank program
Commitments/g                                 ..    197         186       176    |A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements /                                ..     51        134       218      a - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principalrepayments                           ..       5          3         6      C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Netflows                                       ..     46        131       212
Interest payments                             ..       1          9           1I
Net transfers                                 ..      45        122       201
101



Annex 11: Summary Environmental Management Plan
Roads and Bridges Maliagement and Maintenance Program
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introduction
Mozambique is a large, sparsely populated country whose people rely mainly on agriculture for their
livelihoods. In the late 1980s the Government of Mozambique initiated an economic rehabilitation
program to revitalize the country's economy. This involved addressing the country's severe transport
constraints and led to the development of the IDA-financed Roads and Coastal Shipping (ROCS)
projects. The proposed project is the third IDA project addressing Mozambique's transport issues.
SMEC International (SMEC), in association with Projectos e Estudos de Impacto Ambiental, Lda
(Impacto), was commissioned by the Administrac,co Nacional de Estradas (ANE) to undertake an
environmental assessment of the next road sector program in Mozambique.
Terms of reference and methodology
The main elements of the terms of reference were to:
*  Provide comprehensive environmental assessments for the phase 1 roads proposed for IDA
funding. Principal environmental issues associated with other phase I projects were to be
identified.
*  Identify environmental (biological, physical, and social) characteristics relevant for road
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading projects within Mozambique. Where possible the
country is to be subdivided into zones of similar ecological or social characteristics.
*  Develop guidelines for the environmental management of individual projects. These guidelines are
to be relevant for all phases of the roads program.
  Propose monitoring procedures, mechanisms, staff, training, equipment and resources to ensure
that the environmental factors relevant for works undertaken under the roads program are
implemented.
*  Ensure that proper guidelines, procedures, information flows and capacities related to
environmental matters are put into place at the project development stage.
To respond to the terms of reference a methodology was developed involving:
* Consultation with a wide range of government and non-governmental organizations.
*  Field investigations for 11 of the World Bank subprojects. These were undertaken by specialists in
ecology, sociology and physical environmental science.
*  Inputs from specialists in the fields of environmental impact assessment together with local
Mozambican specialists in ecology and sociology.
*  Production of a report structured to respond to each of the principal issues defined in the terms of
reference.
102



Consultation
Consultation was undertaken with 21 government and non-governmental organizations. This involved
interviews with 36 people from these organizations. Discussions were also held with local villagers
and chiefs during field inspections. Outputs from the consultation included:
* Improved understanding of the roles of both government and non-governmental organizations in
developing and maintaining road infrastructure
* Knowledge of concerns about the adverse effects of road development
*  Knowledge of the perceived or measured benefits of road development
*  Access to background information relating to various aspects of the biological, physical and social
environments
*  Improved understanding of the importance and relevance of road infrastructure to local villagers.
Findings were incorporated into the report.
Environmental characteristics of Mozambique
Mozambique contains a varied physical and biological environment, from mountain areas in the west
and north to mangrove forests and coral reefs along the coast. Eight regions were identified as "areas
of special concern" for physical or environmental reasons.
There is some uniformity in socioeconomic characteristics across the country. A majority of the
population is poor with a significant rninority considered very poor. Poverty varies across the country,
with three provinces Tete, Sofala and Inhambane, having higher percentages of their populations poor
or very poor.
The variation in environmental conditions is not correlated between environmental factors. As a result
it was not possible to subdivide or characterize the country into zones or regions with similar
characteristics. Instead individual factors need to be examined. Key factors or issues for each
province were identified.
Initial environmental evaluations of 11 Phase 1 roads
Initial environmental evaluations were completed for 1 I phase I roads. Seven of these subprojects
were for the EN 1, the mnain north-south road link. The other four roads involve one primary road, two
secondary roads and one tertiary road. One of the secondary roads serves what is probably the most
isolated district capital in Mozambique, the town of Chinde.
A range of environmental issues was investigated during the evaluation of 11 IDA-financed
subprojects and 28 phase 1 subprojects being financed by other donors. These were:
* Biological and Physical Impacts
Ecology
Land use change
Erosion and sedimentation
Water quality
Hydrology
Noise and vibration
Air quality
Aesthetics.
103



* Socioeconomic impacts
Direct impacts
Access to services (health, education)
Improved access to markets
Migration
Health
Archaeological and cultural sites.
Investigations found that work carried out under the IDA-financed subprojects could potentially
damage the environment. The risk varied depending on subproject. Environmental management
measures were developed and environmental management guidelines presented. However, overall
potential impacts are rinor and easily mitigated or managed.
None of the IDA-financed subprojects are located in sensitive ecological areas. The subprojects do not
require resettlement and no minorities are affected. In-migration (and associated effects) was
identified as a potential effect of providing improved transportation access. Specific measures to
mitigate its impact were developed. The only potential for the spread of HIV/AIDS was found to be
associated with construction workers. ANE has already developed and implemented mitigation
measures for this effect. The overall conclusion is that the subprojects proposed for IDA funding can
proceed with no significant adverse effects.
104



Table A11.1 Phase I Roads Investigated in the Environmental Assessment
Road  Lovation                           Class-Pw                        Activity    Priority*   Comments*
No.                                     PRSJT.  j*    ._.__- __.  anking   _                           _._._.
42 &   EN 1: Maputo - Maracuene (42)       P         82     Maputo       PM                     Part of the north-south trunk road
43     EN 1: Maracuene - Manhica (43)
44     EN 1: Manhi,a - Incoluane           P        45.4    Maputo       PM                     Part of the north-south trunk road
I     EN 1: Incoluane - Zandamela          P        159    Gaza          PM                    Part of the north-south trunk road
2      EN 1: Zandamela - Maxixe            P         173    Inhambane   PM               -      Part of the north-south trunk road
3      EN 1: Muxungue - Inchope            P         145    Sofala /     Rehab          38      Part of the north-south trunk road
Manica
15    EN 1: Maxixe - Corner ER 520/EN      P        123    Inhambane   Rehab            18     Part of the north-south trunk road
1
29     EN 1: Corner EN I/ER 520 -          P        222    Inhambane   Rehab            27      Part of the north-south trunk road
Vilanculos (29A) and Vilanculos -
Rio Save                  i       _._.        __._',                                          .
8      EN 239: Nametil to Corner of EN     S         76     Nampula    PM                -      Link between coast and interior.
239/260
10    ER 405: Chokwe to the border with    T         31     Gaza         PM             -      Part of the Maputo bypass route from Ressano
Maputo province                                                                          Garcia to Gaza Province. The largest titanium
mine in the world is located near Chibuto
14    ER 455: Estima - Magoe               T         123    Tete         PM              -      South of the Cahora Bassa dam storage
18**   EN 215: Corner EN 1/215 to          S         36     Sofala       PM             -       Short section of road linking Maringue with the
Maringue                                                                                 new Gorongosa - Caia Road
32**   EN 8: Nampula to Corner of          P         159    Nampula      Rehab           8      Part of the Nacala Corridor
EN8/104 (lapala)
37     EN 221: Bene - Fingoe               S         114    Tete         Rehab           9      Opening up of a rich agricultural area.
38**   EN 224: Quelimane - Chinde          S         85     Zambezia    Rehab           34      Chinde is a district capital currently inaccessible by
road.
41     ER 572: Meconta - Corrane          S/T        68     Nampula      Rehab          45
Notes:
1.  *Priority and comments provided by Israel Institute of Transportation Planning and Research (International), Ltd
2.  P = primary, S= secondary, T= tertiary.
3.  Rehab = rehabilitation, PM = periodic maintenance
4.  "These roads were later removed from the roads proposed for World Bank funding.
105



Screening guidelines
Screening guidelines were developed for the other 28 phase 1 subprojects. These considered the range of
environmental assessment issues developed for IDA-financed subprojects and identified five primary
issues for which other road projects could be screened. Using the screening methodology revealed the
necessity for a hierarchy of environmental assessment for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation
projects.
Application of the methodology reveals that five of the 28 projects have potential of causing significant
adverse environmental impacts, and were classified as being of special concern. Eleven roads were
considered to have potential for some adverse effects, while the remainder would cause no significant
effects.
Projects were classified as of special concern if they involved two of the following:
*  Location in an ecologically sensitive area
* Location in an area of high erosion potential
*  Location in an area of high forestry production potential.
Categorization of a road as of special concern does not mean it should not be built. However, decision
makers should note that there are potentially significant environmental issues that need to be addressed.
The screening methodology was considered a reasonable method for broad comparative evaluation of
road projects.
A methodology was also proposed for ANE to use while undertaking environmental assessment. This
consists of:
*  An overview of the legislative requirements for environmental impact assessment (EIA) in
Mozambique
-  A screening method, similar to that described above
*  An initial assessment pro-forma to use in classifying projects for environmental impact assessment
purposes
-  Where an ELA is required under Mozambique legislation, an outline of the process to be followed
-  Where no EIA is required under Mozambique legislation, recommendations for the procedures that
ANE should follow.
Environmental management guidelines
Environmental management guidelines for road periodic maintenance and rehabilitation projects were
developed. They apply to any periodic maintenance or rehabilitation project. A more detailed
environmental management guidelines document (intended for practical use) was prepared as a separate
output from this study.
The environmental management guidelines are intended to be practical for use in the field. The
guidelines therefore treat road maintenance and rehabilitation subprojects as a series of defined activities.
Analysts identify possible environmental impacts for each activity, specify mitigation measures, and
designate responsibility for implementation.
It is proposed that ANE incorporates the environmental management guidelines in contract specifications
for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation projects. Their implementation would be part of the road
works contract and immediate enforcement would be the responsibility of the company supervising the
106



contract. ANE' s role would be to audit the environmental management of projects and update the
environmental management guidelines when required.
It is intended that the environmental management guidelines be a live document, with impacts or
mitigation measures updated to suit field experience. The adoption of an approach based on activity
rather than area of the environment will facilitate updating.
Monitoring and evaluation
Capacity needs to be established within ANE to effectively assess and manage environmental aspects of
road construction and rehabilitation projects. This will require strengthening human resources and
additional resources to support activities for environmental management.
ANE has a fledgling social and environmental unit, the Gender, Poverty Alleviation, and Environment
Unit. The general area of the environment was recently added to the unit's responsibility. The unit is
stronger in the area of social studies, which reflects its origins.
The development of the unit into a section with a broader environmental capability is proposed. This
would require employment of a senior specialist in environmental impact assessment as part of the unit.
This person would also have a role in capacity development within the unit.
The unit would have the responsibility for determining the level of environmental assessment re(quired for
all of ANE' s work and ensuring the work is completed to an appropriate standard. This does not mean
that the unit would undertake all the work but that it has responsibility for ensuring its quality. This can
be achieved by adopting an audit and review role for the environmental assessment or management stages
of a project.
The broader environmental capabilities of ANE were also assessed, as ANE' s environmental management
skills will need to extend beyond the unit. Personnel such as delegates and field engineers or technicians
must have, at a minimum, some understanding of environmental issues.
Resource and training needs were identified. Short-term training modules in ten different areas for ANE
staff are proposed. Selected staff from the following ANE groups would participate:
*  Environment unit
*  Training department
*  Supervision department
*  Department of studies and projects
*  Provincial delegates.
Support for master's degree studies in environmental impact assessment for members of the ANE
environment unit is also proposed. A budget is proposed for training and other capacity building
measures, as follows:
* US$203,600 for training over the Phase 1 of the Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance
Program.
* US$360,000 for employment of a senior environmental specialist
* US$61,000 for equipment.
107



Benefits and costs
The project would generate the following benefits:
* Restoration of traffic on the classified roads network
* Rehabilitation of high volume roads and mechanisms to ensure their maintenance
* Prioritization of the use of local resources and the employment of modern and efficient planning and
control systems.
The program also has benefits people living near the project roads by reducing their transport and transit
time and improving their access to services and markets. This is particularly important for subprojects
undertaken on tertiary and secondary roads.
The costs of the project are:
*  Actual construction costs.
* Environmental costs. There were no significant impacts identified for the 11 subprojects Evaluated
provided the environmental management guidelines were implemented.
*  Costs of development and training for ANE personnel. These total US$625,000.
The actual costs of implementing the environmental guidelines for a road project were not estimated.
Provided these are incorporated into the project design and reflected in the works contracts then these
costs would be borne by the contractors. The government would bear costs of monitoring compliance
with agreed measures and enforcing laws, regulations and covenants. These costs are included in the
development and training costs for ANE.
108



32'                  )   34                          3                           38                          40_
This mop o prdced by1he [h                                                    3,
M.,p D-ig Unit of h. W-Id B-n4 1,                          j
Th. b .. d- lo-I, d .... /--                                                    TANZANIA
tka pd=mlle. -natinhw= .py - h.hV P-f                                                                           gaxs6F/~   
Th W-ld Bon- Gup, -ny judg3e
on~Ihg IMo34 oIou=f=y errio=yW'         /                 AU7                L_r                                 --.                '       ePa
uny endorsement or occeprorre oi                           r-7,------'--                                                                 nJ
~~~~~~~~td/   h,g,,/.--- .1-p-  ..--fW-R.... 2
h   A-.'   MM-   d\, 9 -.s'                                                                        ,5e-h
MA LAW  Itst ,<    
I =I=V'';X' G a
12'~~~~~~~~ | . -. Ca1' , ' .2,                                                                                   AMBst 
ZAMBIA ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OAMIU
/   \      \.              r          /-          '> ---.                                 ~~~~~~CHANNEL
ZItABABWE t ! X .<t? MOZAMBIQrUE
/  MALAWI - a   L,chROADS MAINTENANCE AND
<> a\Inchaxt   ,MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
.   .  '  .- /                               ~~~APL PHASE I FUNDED
-  '._onooti4~S                                                                    CMES
Colorro 8occo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~RVNC  APrL
18      -'                                          -        ',  .o                                                                                  16'
,,-~~~~~~~" Clroegoro ~ ~ ~   ~         ~       ~        NAiNA CPIA
22 ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~      y          .  \4tnu  ----                                                   PROVINCE IBOUNDARES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INVERWOL BOUNDRARIS
NoTooc200ono
.                                                            ROADS MAINTNAC  AND O
MANAGEME~~TNT PROGRA
hb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 6 ANGOPAE   UNE
OTNEE         MADROADS.-~~
+ 5a,> r< >___                                                               RAILROAtDS
/ ~~~~~/ ~~~- ~~~' ~~~ / : ~~~ SELECTED CITIES
,         E _ . ------- -- .3 t O~~~ ~~~~~~ PROVINCEtCAPErALS
/  I    ~           ~           ~           ~          ~                NATIONAl CAPITAL~~~~~NAMBI
22                     j/                                 --.          tVlO                                        PROVIBtCE RiOUNDARIRS
~~~ / X ' E l t : 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ----  1EEEERNAIIOHA[ BOUNDARIES
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~>-W            N>. t 7o1 ..20...... . 2ch
t~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                           10         30 .100,00  5 
\ Mbet : l . L !~~~(~'                             DEM REP oulur8c% %,        /  ............ ND3AN   OCEAN
\ gw    1 .\                  / eZ00\:  K\$~ .r ZL8.K| s  OP CONGO    '-'X                     
SOUTH                    SU CAF"' e                  "4'      )         =L368
; X -  ,   whibu+2 -  /               ;       ) ~~~~~~ANGOlA  K' i !tF't g t   i 'L
A F R I C A j, \:w iTt, / r ZAMS;AAr8,IA                                                            '0,    1
AFRICA  ~ ~ }h             ag       dw                               0        C \;4OI'C  I       .'-*1A".    M; rOd    ?' |
ReStgnO . -- ,~~~~~~~~~~~ < r X~F                                  ZIMBA8WE *i
IS WAZI LAND,  ,S ,OUTH AFRICA                                                                                                          ir
8   32     \             ~~~~~~SOUTH AFRIC       34                       3                    






32'                    '~34                               36'                            38                             AD
Th,s mop -'o prod-cd 6o, ihe                                    '
M.pI3esigo UroolThkeWorld Bock-, 
The`boud.ecl,ssoiooe/TANZANIA
oh0~ cop oo .oO mply,  ocrhe . ptf
The Wor,d ork Grop, ory udg-oo t                                                                                 /
ontire logolsrorusoforr territoryor  /  _____C-
_ny cdroon rocpoo fI'
-1,uch. bud--s'                                                                             ""Moo
ZAMBIA                                                                             N    IoooAap,                                  Mfcr Aunoc 
MALAWI             4           k,9                           >--        -      
Fi.q- ,                                                                                                   M
10    -'    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ N
16'~ ~~~~~~~CCcccfo                        \                              ' 
C-CC gK .6
Cohorotooo   ~~22;Th\NTETE   'C/  ;~~~   /         I) ~              tA                                    000E0I 
'N.xgccp                                 U                                              eC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-o~~9
*             yUSh-                                           -.                                      r~~~~~~~~~d  oomp A tm eoUE
1  (    &      4         K                                        /~~~~FIA NE
4,A                                                             AP PAS  - IDA FNANCE
o~~~~~~~~stimo                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRJC RAS
~~~  1yo    -  N                       <g>~~~~~~~~~-  --  - PEIOICMAIANC
*  ' o \~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVE  OD
-22'                                                                                                                                                       27C 24
If  '                          Y                                                                                      MOZAMINHAMBAN
GAZA   V
ZIMBABWE  ~~~~~   5-OF LA ~~~D                                                       ROADF ANEAC  ANDOEA
5~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                  PROJCT RADS
c~ ~~~-ouotk.r.                                                                     EAITTO
23'                                (C~~~~~F  M ,    ); hou b \ R C . 0*.e..e.                                            RURNGRODSLA
CI               t      EPRODCMANTNAC
A F R I C A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ouogp 
/SWAILAN                                                                                SOURALROACS
/S   0%_U   r3o#H         -3ElCEfCTE



