Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3550 MOZ
Project Agreement
(Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ADMINISTRAÇÃO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS
Dated September 21, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3550 MOZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  September 21, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ADMINISTRAÇÃO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS (ANE). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred and twenty seven million and four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
127,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on conditions that ANE agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ANE, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to ANE on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ANE, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ANE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ANE shall otherwise agree, ANE shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ANE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ANE shall:
(i)
prepare jointly with the Borrower, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association, 
the Borrower and ANE, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower and ANE on the said plan.
Section 2.04. ANE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ANE shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ANE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
ANE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ANE of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ANE
Section 3.01. ANE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, engineering and 
Page  3
environmental practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ANE shall take all reasonable steps within its means to operate 
and maintain its equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
financial engineering, and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. ANE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ANE shall establish, not later than December 31, 2001 and 
thereafter maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
ANE shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year, including those for the Special Account 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; 
and 
(B)
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, ANE shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial system in order to enable ANE, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association.  Each such report 
shall:
(i)
(A) set forth actual sources and application of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and application of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) show separately expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describe physical progress in the implementation of the 
Project both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explain variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and 
Page  4
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, ANE shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ANE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ANE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association
International Association for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Administração Nacional de Estradas:
Administração Nacional de Estradas
Av. De Moçambique 1225
Maputo
Page  5
Moçambique
Facsimile:
258-1-475290
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ANE may be 
taken or executed by the General Director of ANE or such other person or persons as 
ANE shall designate in writing, and ANE shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
ADMINISTRAÇÃO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS
By /s/ Ismael Valigy
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  6
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $10,000,000 
shall be pre-qualified as provided in paragraph 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $22,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2. 
International and National Shopping
(a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; and (b) goods estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures; all in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Works may be awarded after direct negotiations with contractors, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association, on the basis of prices established by 
an independent consultant in the case of emergency works including road and bridge 
repairs caused due to flood damages, estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,300,000 equivalent, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association from time to time, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more and with respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under international or 
national shopping procedures, ANE shall provide to the Association 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received 
Page  7
from at least three suppliers;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
international or national shopping procedures, ANE shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Association Borrowers" published by the Association in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications 
thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part B and C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part A.4 of the Project, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior Agreement, be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  8
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract awarded on the basis of single source 
selection and consultant’s qualification selection, terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
ANE shall:
(a)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) apply the criteria, 
policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the PIP; and (ii) not amend or waive, 
or permit to be amended or waived, the PIP or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project;
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than sixty days after the end of each calendar 
year of each year of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar  year preceding the date of said report (provided, however, that the first 
report to be furnished to the Association shall cover the period from the date of 
effectiveness, through December 31, 2002, and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, within 30 days of submission, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
Page  9
matter; 
2.
ANE shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 2001: (i) establish a Financial Management 
Committee, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and appoint its key 
members with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) appoint the Chief Financial Internal Auditor by December 31, 
2001, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
maintain in functions the Chief Financial Officer referred to in Section 
7.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
by September 30 of each year, submit, through the Borrower, to the 
Association for its review and comments its rolling three-year draft investment and 
maintenance program for the road sector, and, in preparing the final version of the 
referred program take into due account the comments made by the Association;
3.
ANE shall not undertake or cause to be undertaken any investment estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more during any fiscal year, unless such 
investment has been included in the respective investment and maintenance program 
referred to in paragraph 2 (c) above or it has been explicitly approved by the 
Association.
4.
Midterm Review
ANE shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators specified 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 24 months after 
the Effectiveness Date, a Midterm review of the Project, which shall cover, inter 
alia:  (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives;  (ii) overall Project 
performance as measured against Performance Indicators; and (iii) the adequacy of the 
institutional and management arrangements for the Project and its components;
(c)
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm review, furnish to the 
Association a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph (b) above 
and of Project implementation generally; and
(d)
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such 
action program.
5.
Environmental Management Plan
(a)
ANE shall carry out the implementation and monitoring of the MMEMAP in a 
form and timely manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
ANE shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the implementation and monitoring of the MMEMAP.
6.
ANE shall ensure that, at all times:
(a)
the measures required for the Road Fund to ensure that the level of the 
road maintenance user fees, satisfactory to the Association, shall be channeled into 
the Road Fund are from time to time, as need be, adjusted in accordance with the 
Program, and 
Page  10
(b)
the resources of the Road Fund from the road user charges shall be used 
solely for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for road 
maintenance operations in the territory of the Borrower.
