Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3550 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project)
between
 REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 21, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3550 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 2001, between  REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a Letter of Development Program from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies  designed to 
redefine and strengthen its road sector transport with a view to: (i) promoting more 
efficient and reliable transport services; and (ii) facilitating economic development 
(the Program), and declaring therein the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;the Association has received a Letter of Development Program from the 
Borrower, describing therein a program of actions, objectives, and policies (the 
Program) designed to redefine and strengthen its road sector transport with a view to 
(i) promoting more efficient and reliable transport services; and (ii) facilitating 
economic development and declaring therein the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from various international donors 
agencies the total amount equivalent to to assist in financing the Project on the 
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in their respective agreements; 
(E)
the Borrower has contracted and intends to contract from various 
international donors agencies a total amount equivalent to $330,300,000, to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in their respective 
agreements; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth  below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries;".; 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ANE" or "Administração Nacional de Estradas" means the  National Roads 
Administration, a financial and administrative autonomous public institution 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 14 dated April 27, 1999 and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 15 dated April 27, 1999, for the 
purposes of planing and implementing the maintenance and development of the Borrower’s 
public roads, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(b)
"BM" means "Banco de Moçambique", the Borrower’s central bank;
(c)
"DEPs" or "Departamento de Estradas e Pontes" means the Borrower’s 
provincial Department of Roads and Bridges; 
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means the categories set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services  to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
Special Account’s (as hereinafter defined) respective Eligible Categories;  
(f)
"Initial Deposit" 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(g)
"Meticais Project Account" and "Dollar Project Account" mean, 
Page  3
respectively, the accounts referred to in Section 3.04 (a) to this Agreement; 
(h)
"
Metical" means the Borrower’s currency;
(i)
"MICOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry for Coordination of Environmental 
Affairs; 
(j)
"MMEMAP" means the Mitigation Measures and Environmental Management 
Action Plan prepared and approved by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project on 
February 14, 2001, and satisfactory to the Association;
(k)
"MOPWH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Housing;
(l)
"MPF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Finance; 
(m)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in Section 7.01 
(b) of this Agreement, outlining policies, procedures and guidelines to be followed in 
the implementation of the Project; 
(n)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and ANE, as such agreement may be amended from time to time and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(o)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
"Road Fund" means the Borrower’s "Fundo de Estradas" created by the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 15 dated April 27, 1999, with the principal objective to manage 
the funds for road rehabilitation and maintenance, and to which sources of revenue are 
determined by the Borrower’s Decree No. 22 dated  September 24, 1990;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(r)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ANE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-seven million and four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 127,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2011 and ending March 1, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United  States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project; and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance, and, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause ANE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of ANE therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary  or  appropriate to enable ANE to perform such obligations, : (i)  carry out 
the  Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental practices;  (ii) 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of ANE therein set forth; and (iii)  to provide promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to ANE  
under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ANE, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Ssubsidiary 
Aagreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall  cause assis ANE to carry in carrying  out the Project in accordance with the  
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and the PIP.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and Consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 12 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution for the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an 
account (the Meticais Project Account) in Meticais and an account (the Dollar Project 
Account) in Dollars, in one or more commercial banks, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, to be used for the purposes of the Project; 
(b)
promptly thereafter make: (i) an an Initial Deposit (i) in Meticais of an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 (the Meticais Initial Deposit) into the Meticais Project 
Account; and (ii) an Initial Deposit (ii) in Dollars of an amount of $600,000 (the 
Dollar Initial Deposit) into the Dollar Project Account,  both to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project;  
(c)
thereafter deposit into both the Meticais and Dollar Project Accounts, 
respectively, by the first day of each quarter each year, such amounts as shall be 
required and agreed upon with the Association to timely replenish both Project 
Accounts back to the amount of the Initial Deposits referred to in paragraph (b) 
above; and 
(d)
use the funds in both Project Accounts exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
Page  6
a plan for the future operation of the  sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times during the execution 
of the Project:
(a)
its ANE and the Road Fund shall be maintained under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including the maintenance of its functions, 
composition and staff with qualifications, experience and performance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
the relevant Ministries and, Agencies and authorities (inter alia, MOPWH, 
MICOA, MPF and, ANE, DEPs and the Road Fund) shall comply with the provisions of the 
PIP, in particular, with respect to the appointment of individuals, with 
qualifications, experience, and functions satisfactory to the Association, who shall 
assist in ensuring proper implementation of the Project;
(c)
all such the measures are taken so as required on the Road Fund to ensure 
that the level of the road maintenance user fees, satisfactory to the Association, 
shall to be channeled into the Rroad Ffund and, are from time to time, as need be, 
adjusted in aaccordance with ing tothe agreed provision under the Letter of 
Development PProgram; and 
(d)
the resourcesproceeds of the Road Fund from the road user charges shall 
be used solely for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for 
road maintenance operations in the territory of the Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that ANE 
shall comply with the provisions set forth in Section 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ANE 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.(e) except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, (i) the criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements are applied 
in accordance with the PIP and (ii) the PIP or any provision thereof  are not amended 
or waived, or permitted to be amended or waived, in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
Page  7
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan for the strengthening 
of a financial management system acceptable to the Association in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than eighteen
months after the Effective Date, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, consisting of three separate, but coherent reports of 
which:
(i) 
the financial report: (A) sets forth actual sources and 
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
the status report describes: (A) physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets, as the case may be; 
and
(iii)
the procurement report sets forth the status of procurement under 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Page  8
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the management of the Road Fund to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the management of the Road Fund to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements of the Road 
Fund (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements), for each fiscal year audited, and the interim 
financial situation audited for each semester between fiscal years 
during the first two fiscal years, all in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; andand
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request; 
Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall cause the Road Fund to have a technical audit 
of its operations included in the audit provided for in Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested.
Section 5.03.  The Borrower shall ensure that the Road Fund shall maintain its 
operations under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including 
qualified and experienced management and staff. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are is specified, namely, that: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
the Borrower’s Decrees No. 22 dated September 24, 1990,  No. 1545 dated 
April 25, 1995, No. 34 and No. 35 both dated August 8, 1995, No. 8 dated April 15, 
1997, and No. 15 dated April 27, 1999 of 1989 and Decree No.22 of September 24, 1990, 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived and any new 
legislation shall have been enacted so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operation of the Road Fund;
(c)
ANE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ANE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower’s Decree No.15 dated April 27, 1999, establishing ANE shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of ANE to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Page  9
Agreement; and 
(f)
fthe Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution of ANE or the suspension of its operations.; 
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (e) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.and,
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) , and 5.02 of this 
Agreement have been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 13 to the Project is Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower and ANE have adopted the PIP, in form and substance 
satisfactory  to the Association;
(c)
the  Meticais Project Account and the Dollar Project Account have been 
opened and their respective Initial Deposit has been made; 
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the Auditors for the  Meticais Project Account 
and the Dollar Project Account, on terms and conditions satisfactory  to the 
Association; 
(e)
ANE has appointed a Chief Financial Officer_________ , with 
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory  to the 
Association;
(f)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
ANE; and
(g)
the Borrower and ANE have established a financial management system and 
adopted the Financial Management Manual of Procedures in form and substance acceptable 
to the Association.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ANE, 
and is legally binding upon ANE in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ANE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANE in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 7.03.The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  10
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Governor of the 
Banco de Moçambique  is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the  purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Estrangeiro
Maputo
Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
         MOBANCO
6355/BMMO
258 1 428565
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
      Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
       REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Ismael Valigy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa 
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
1.
Works  
(i)
Periodic Maintenance
  28,780,000
75% 
 
(ii)
Rehabilitation
  41,290,000
80%
(iii) Rural Roads
  12,350,000
80% 
(iv)  Emergency
   4,955,000
80%
(v) 
Road Safety
   4,800,000
80%
2.
Materials, equipment and   1,335,000
100% of foreign 
vehicles
expenditures and
85% of local expenditures
3.
Consultants’ services,
100% of foreign 
training and audits
expenditures and
85% of local expenditures
(i)   Engineering Services   10,830,000
(ii)  Studies
  10,380,000
(iii) Technical Assistance    3,930,000
(iv) Training
   1,965,000
4.
Unallocated
   6,785,000
TOTAL
 127,400,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
2,350,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures under Category 3 
(i) before that date but after January 31, 2001.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
and works costing less than $1050,000 equivalent each; and contracts for works costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent each;  (b) contracts for consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) all training;  all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrowerdetermine.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Page  12
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement ; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  For each payment 
made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as 
the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Eligible Categories" means 
Categories (1), (2), and (3), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this 
Schedule 1.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  13
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $8,500,000 equivalent to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $4,250,000 
equivalent until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of  SDR 16,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by the documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  14
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.   
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.   
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
coverage and conditions of roads and bridges in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) 
strengthening the Borrower’s institutional capacity to manage and administer the road 
sector; (iii) establishing financing mechanisms for roads maintenance;  (iv) promoting 
the use of local resources in roads construction and management; and (v) improving 
road transport safety.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Roads and Bridges 
1.
Carrying out periodic maintenance on about 525 km of primary roads (Estrada 
Nacional No.1 or hereinafter "EN1") in the Borrower’s provinces of Maputo, Gaza, 
Inhambane, Sofala and Manica, through, inter alia: (i) earthworks, including patch 
works, pothole repair, local reinforcement, single layer or double layer pavement, 
resurfacing of gravel roads, and resealing; (ii) maintenance and repair of road 
shoulders and drainage works; (iii) maintenance of the roadsides, including clearing 
of drainage structures and cleaning and reshaping ditches; (iv) drainage improvement, 
including rehabilitation of drains and ditches and masonry works; and (v) maintenance 
and repair of bridges, for the eligible activities and sites listed in Annex 1 to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.
Carrying out rehabilitation of about 313 km of EN1 primary roads in the 
Borrower’s provinces of  Maputo and Inhambane, through, inter alia: (i) full base 
reconstruction, asphalt strengthening overlays, selective deep patching and overlays, 
granular base overlay and surfacing, surface treatment with major shape correction, 
recycling of one or more pavement layers, vegetation control, repainting road 
markings, repairing and replacing road signs and; weigh bridge facilities; (ii) 
reconstruction of the roadsides, including clearing of drainage structures and 
cleaning and reshaping ditches; (iii) drainage improvement, including rehabilitation 
of drains and ditches and masonry works; (iv) maintenance, repair and rehabilitation 
of bridges, for the eligible activities and sites listed in Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
3.
Carrying out rehabilitation of about 412 km of rural roads in the Borrower’s 
provinces of Gaza, Nampula and Tete, through, inter alia: (i) improvement of 
structural strength, shape, drainage, ride quality and performance; (ii) minor 
improvement to geometric and structural standards; and (iii) maintenance, repair and 
rehabilitation of bridges, for the eligible activities and sites listed in Annex 1 to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.
Carrying out emergency repairs, design, tender documents and supervision of 
works of roads and bridges due to floods or other natural disasters. 
5.
Carrying out civil works and installation of traffic signs to improve road 
Page  15
safety.
6.    Carrying out design, tender documents and supervision of works activities for 
the road sector, through the provision of technical advisory services for the eligible 
activities and sites listed in Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part B:
Institutional  Strengthening and  Policy Reforms
1.
Establishment of an institutional framework for the Borrower’s road sector 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Capacity building of ANE and Road Fund for management, technical and financial 
auditing, procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial management and project 
management, through the provision of technical advisory services.
3.
 Establishment of a financial management framework for ANE and the Road Fund 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
4.
Carrying out of the identification and implementation of road safety measures 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
5.
Strengthening of the ANE’s social unit responsible for addressing HIV/AIDSids 
prevention measures, social and labor impact of roads activities, through the 
provision of technical advisory services.
6.
Capacity building for carrying out training programs for environmental 
assessment, management and monitoring of the MMEMAP, through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
7.
Raising awareness of communities about the environmental issues regarding the 
Project including the publication of overviews regarding Project operations, and 
carrying out  communication campaigns regarding environmental issues, through the 
provision of technical advisory services.
8.
Raising road user awareness, including consultation of road users regarding road 
maintenance, road sector strategy, decisions on Project issues, and neeeds of 
adjustment of  the road user fees by carrying out communication campaigns including 
workshops, through the provision of technical advisory services.
Part C:
Strategy and Preparatory Activities for further investments 
1.
Carrying out revisions and updating of the Borrower’s  integrated road sector 
strategy to incorporate priorities identified during stakeholders consultations, 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Carrying out  environmental, socioeconomic and social impact assessment of roads 
works for  further investments, through the provision of technical advisory services.
3.
Preparation of engineering designs and tender documents for the construction and 
rehabilitation of roads for  further investments, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
ANNEX  TO SCHEDULE 2
Roads and Bridges financed under Part A of the Project
1.  
Roads Periodic Maintenance Works under Part A.1
Works will involve: full-width resurfacing or treatment of the existing pavement 
or roadway (inclusive of minor shape correction, surface patching or restoration of 
Page  16
skid resistance) to maintain surface characteristics and structural integrity for 
continued serviceability; localized repairs and reconstruction (typically less than 
10% of total  length in sections of less than 250m in continuous length);  limited 
geometric improvements related enhancement of traffic capacity speed and safety but 
not structural strengthening; maintenance and/or provision of vehicle load control 
facilities. Specific actions will include slurry seals, fog sprays, enrichment 
treatments, surface treatments (double or single); friction courses; thin asphalt 
surfacing typically 30mm or less in thickness and localized base reconstruction, 
vegetation control,  repainting road markings, repairing and replacing road signs; and 
construction of weigh bridge  facilities on all the following roads sections:.
(a)
Road 3 EN1 Muxungue-Inchope: about 145 kilometer section of EN1 reaching 
at Inchope, the  Beira corridor, which connects the city and port of Beira to 
Zimbabwe. 
(b)
Road 43 EN1 Marracuene-Manhiça:  maintainenance of about  48 kilometers.  
(c)
Road 1 EN1 Incoluane-Zandamela: about 159 kilometer section of EN1 
starting approximately 140 kilometers north of Maputo, and crossing the flood plains 
of both the Incomati and Limpopo rivers.
(d)
Road 2 EN1 Zandamela-Maxixe: about 173 kilometer section of the EN1 
passing through both Gaza and Inhambane provinces and providing access to Inhambane, 
the provincial capital and only port along the 1,200 kilometer coastline between 
Maputo and Beira.  
2.
Roads Rehabilitation Works under Part A.2
Full-width, full-length surfacing with strengthening and shape correction of 
existing pavement, or roadways (inclusive of repair of minor drainage structures) to 
provide improved structural strength and integrity required for continued 
serviceability;  geometric improvements related to width, curvature of gradient of 
roadway, pavement, shoulders or structures, to enhance traffic capacity, speed or 
safety; maintenance and/or provision of vehicle load control facilities. Specific 
actions including full base reconstruction, asphalt strengthening overlays, selective 
deep patching and overlays, granular base overlay and surfacing, surface treatment 
with major shape correction, recycling of one or more pavement layers, vegetation 
control, repainting road markings, repairing and replacing road signs; weigh bridge 
facilities.
(a)
Road 42  EN1 Maputo-Marracuene: about 29.7 kilometer section carrying the 
heaviest traffic in the Borrower’s  road network. 
(b)
Road 15  EN1 Maxixe-Cr. ER520/EN1: about  123 kilometer section. 
(c)
Road 29.1  EN1 Cr.  ER520/EN1-Vilanculos: about 109 kilometer section  
between the Borrower’s province of Inhambane and the Borrower’s village of Vilanculos. 
(d)
Road 44  EN1 Manhiça-Incoluane: about 52 kilometers up to the edge of the 
Incomati river flood plain.  
3.
Rural Roads Rehabilitation Works under Part A.3
Major re-gravelling and ripping, re-compaction and drainage, includingincludeing 
localized geometric improvement,  and upgrading  earth roads to a gravel standard. 
(a)
Road 10 ER 405 Fr.Maputo-Chokwe: about 31 kilometers long and 6 meters 
wide.  
(b)
Road 37 EN221 Bene-Fíngoè: about 114 kilometers long and 6 meters wide.  
(c)
Road 41 ER 572 Meconta-Corrane: about 68 kilometers long and 6–7 meters 
Page  17
wide. 
(d)
Road 8 EN 239 Nametil-Cr EN 236/260: about 76 kilometers long and 6 
meters wide.  
(e)
Road 14 ER 555 Estigma-Magoe: about 123 kilometers long and 6 meters 
wide.  
