                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000586




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-35500 IDA-3550A)




                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 127.4 MILLION
                     (US$162.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                       REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                           FOR PHASE I OF THE

    ROADS AND BRIDGES MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT


                             December 20, 2007




Transport
Southern Africa 2
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2007)

               Currency Unit = New Mozambique Metical (MZN)
                               MZN1.00 = US$0.04
                               US$1.00 = SDR0.66

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANE       Administraçao Nacional de Estradas (National Road Administration)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DNEP      Direcção Nacional de Estradas e Pontes (National Directorate of Roads and
          Bridges)
DP        Development Partner
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
FM        Financial Management
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
GoM       Government of Mozambique
HIV/AIDS  Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR       Implementation Status Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
INAV      Instituto Nacional de Viação (National Traffic Institute)
HDM       Highway Design and Maintenance Model (World Bank)
km        Kilometer
LDP       Letter of Development Program
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MMEMAP    Mitigation Measures and Environmental Management Action Plan
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoPD      Ministry of Planning and Development
MoPWH     Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MoSA      Ministry of State Administration
MoTC      Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTR       Midterm Review
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
NVP       Net Present Value
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PARPA     Plano de Acção para a Redução da Pobreza Absoluta (Action Plan for the
          Reduction of Absolute Poverty)
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIP       Project Implementation Plan

PRISE   Programa Integrado do Sector de Estradas (Integrated Road Sector Program
        2007-09)
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QER     Quality Enhancement Review
RBMMP   Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project
RED     Road Economic Decision Model
RF      Road Fund
RMI     Road Management Initiative
ROCS    Roads and Coastal Shipping
RVP     Regional Vice President
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
TA      Technical Assistance
UASMA   Unidade de Assuntos Sociais e Meio Ambiente (Social and Environmental Unit
        of the ANE)
VAT     Value Added Tax




                        Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                     Country Director: Michael Baxter
                      Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                 Project Team Leader: Dieter E. Schelling
                    ICR Team Leader: Subhash C. Seth

                                         MOZAMBIQUE
     Phase 1 of the Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Components................................................................................ 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 30
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 36
 Annex 6. Comments from Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders                                                       52
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                   Roads and Bridges
Country:               Mozambique            Project Name:         Management and
                                                                   Maintenance Project
Project ID:            P001785               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35500,IDA-3550A
ICR Date:              12/20/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    APL                   Borrower:             GOV.OF MOZ
Original Total
                       XDR 127.4M            Disbursed Amount:     XDR 126.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
ADMINISTRACAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS (ANE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK
African Development Bank (AfDB)
Department for International Development UK (DFID)
European Commission
JICA
OPEC Fund for International Development
DANIDA
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)
Nordic Development Fund
NORAD
KFW
Government of Ireland


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date            Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/13/2000    Effectiveness:       06/04/2002       06/04/2002
Appraisal:            03/12/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/19/2001    Mid-term Review:     04/15/2005       04/19/2005
                                    Closing:             06/30/2005       06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Moderate
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory




                                             i

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                    Ratings                Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Moderately Satisfactory Government:              Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory              Implementing
                                                  Agency/Agencies:        Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory             Performance:            Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  14                  14
Health                                                              1                   1
Roads and highways                                                 85                  85


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                           Secondary          Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                         Secondary          Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary            Primary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                              Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Michael Baxter                      Darius Mans
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham              Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project Team Leader:       Dieter E. Schelling                 Abdelmoula M. Ghzala
ICR Team Leader:           Subhash C. Seth
ICR Primary Author:        Subhash C. Seth



                                                 ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the coverage and
conditions of roads and bridges in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) strengthening the
Borrower's institutional capacity to manage and administer the road sector; (iii)
establishing financing mechanisms for roads maintenance;(iv) promoting the use of local
resources in roads construction and management; and (v) improving road transport safety.

  Project Performance Indicators:

  The Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project (RBMMP), APL Phase
1, supported the Government's roads sector strategy and the four-year road program
(2001-04). The following indicators were designed at sector level to assess the
performance of each Project Development Objective (PDO). However the output
indicators for the Bank's own target and specific contributions to project components are
summarized in the main text Section 3.2 and Annex 2 "Outputs by Components" Table
A.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no changes in the project development objectives (PDO).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Condition of roads improved -- length of road in good and fair condition (in km):
                                                              Good -

Value           Good - 6,000               Good - 11,500      11,500        Good - 8,900
quantitative or Fair - 7,500               Fair - 3,500       Fair -        Fair - 8,452
Qualitative)    Total - 13,500             Total - 15,000     3,500
                                                              Total -       Total - 17,352

                                                              15,000
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2005         12/31/2006    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The actual value of good and fair roads (17,352 km) has exceeded the target

achievement)    (15,000 km) by 15%. The rating of this PDO is assessed as "Satisfactory".

Indicator 2 :   Borrower's institutional capacity strengthened:
Value           ANE Roads Board not        ANE Roads Board    ANE Roads
quantitative or                                               Board         ANE Roads Board

Qualitative)    operational                operational        operational   operational

Date achieved 12/31/2001                   06/30/2003         12/31/2003    10/31/2003
Comments        (a) ANE Road Board was established in October 2003 and is now operational.



                                                iii

(incl. %        (b) Due to shortage of technical manpower in Mozambique, sufficient staff
achievement)    could not be trained in technical and financial management. The rating of this
                PDO is assessed as "MS"

Indicator 3 :   Road Fund (RF) revenue generated to establish financing mechanisms for road
                maintenance:
Value
quantitative or US$28.7 m                  US$51 m             US$55 m       US$61.3 m
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2005          12/31/2006    06/30/2007
Comments        RF revenues exceeded the targets by up to 20% each year starting 2004. RF was
(incl. %        separated from ANE in 2003 as planned. The rating of this PDO is assessed as
achievement)    "HS".
Indicator 4 :   The use of local resources in road construction promoted:

                                           Technical           Technical     Technical
Value           Material testing in        specifications      specificationsspecifications
quantitative or progress but no technical published and        published and published and
Qualitative)    specifications published applied in APL        applied in    applied in APL
                                           Phase 2 roads       APL Phase 2
                                                               roads         Phase 2 roads

Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2005          12/31/2006    06/30/2007

Comments        ANE with the support of Univ. of Texas completed material testing on some

(incl. %        sections of road N-1. The new technical specifications were applied in the

achievement)    design of APL Phase 2 roads, which is cost effective by 20%. The rating of this
                PDO is assessed as "S".
Indicator 5 :   Road transport safety improved:

Value                                                          Strategy      Road safety

quantitative or Action plan to be updated  Strategy approved   approved by   strategy developed

Qualitative)                               by INAV             INAV          and action plan
                                                                             updated
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2005          12/31/2006    12/31/2006
Comments        Road safety strategy developed by the INAV has been approved and published
(incl. %        by the MoPWH. All the agreed road safety activities could not be completed
achievement)    (see para. 50.E). The rating of this PDO is assessed as MU

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Kilometers of roads that received routine maintenance.
Value
(quantitative   10,000 km                  14,000 km           14,000 km     13,100 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2005          12/31/2006    12/31/2006
Comments        Achieved 94%. The road km that received routing maintenance is 94% of the
(incl. %        original target value. The road km that received periodic maintenance (1788 km)
achievement)    is also 94% of the original target value (1900km) (see Annex-2, Table B).



                                                 iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
 1    12/27/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 2    03/19/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 3    03/27/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 4    04/22/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 5    09/30/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.25
 6    02/21/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.31
 7    05/23/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.42
 8    11/13/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.66
 9    05/11/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  5.42
10    06/30/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                19.59
11    12/14/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                35.16
12    01/26/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                47.29
13    03/23/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         53.22
14    07/31/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         66.71
15    12/22/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                98.93
16    05/16/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory               119.00
17    09/30/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory               144.02
18    05/04/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory               172.50



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                          v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Mozambique became independent in 1975 and a peace agreement was signed in 1992. Since
2003, it has sustained real annual growth of more than 7 percent. The roads sector has made significant
contributions to recovery by rehabilitating war-hit roads, providing access to isolated areas, and lowering
transportation costs on primary roads. In August 1998, the government of Mozambique (GoM)
announced its road policy and strategy, which gave priority to improving roads, expanding links to
agricultural areas, securing access to ports, and upgrading corridors to neighboring countries. It also
emphasized the need for: (i) providing sufficient resources for undertaking annual road maintenance
regularly; (ii) decentralizing both management and decision making; (iii) strengthening institutions
responsible for the management of the road network; (iv) promoting use of local resources in road works;
and (v) incorporating social issues, such as road safety, HIV/AIDS prevention, and poverty reduction, into
road programs.

2.      The first goal of the GoM's roads sector strategy was to improve the north-south National Road
N1 that runs from Maputo to Nampula and farther to Pemba. This road is critical to strengthen national
unity, promote internal commerce, and improve access to major social, political, and commercial centers
by significantly reducing travel times. The national Road N1 was and still remains the spine of the
country's transportation system. For Mozambique's economy, it is essential to keep the N1 in traffic-
worthy condition. The second goal of the GoM's roads sector strategy was to ensure secure and
continuous connection of all provincial capitals to National Road N1. With regard to the secondary road
network, the government's priorities were to maintain and rehabilitate only those roads that were
economically viable or that served social objectives.

3.      Mozambique's classified road network--the national and regional roads--consists of 29,349
kilometers (km) of roads, of which 5,814 km (or 20 percent) are paved. No systematic survey exists on
the extent and condition of the non-classified road network, but it is estimated that about 3,000 km of
urban roads (about 500 km of which are paved) exist, in addition to 5,000 km of district roads, all
unpaved. The total road network length is estimated at about 37,349 km (see Table 1).

                        Table 1 Road Network of Mozambique (in kilometers)


         Type of road                                         Paved       Unpaved          Total

         Classified roads                                     5,814         23,535        29,349
         Urban nonclassified roads (estimate)                   500          2,500         3,000
         Rural nonclassified roads (estimate)                     0          5,000         5,000

         Total                                                6,314         31,035        37,349


4.      The main issues that needed to be addressed in the roads sector at the project preparation stage
are summarized as follows:
    · Improving the coverage and condition of the roads network
    · Connecting agriculturally productive areas to the rest of the country through improvements in the
        road network
    · Strengthening capacity to manage roads sector activities effectively, sustainably, and
        transparently, at central and local levels

    · Ensuring the sufficient, timely, and stable flow of funds for roads maintenance, and establishing
        policies and processes for reviewing and adjusting funding sources for road maintenance
    · Involving road users in setting road priorities and in monitoring and evaluating the roads program
    · Decentralizing responsibilities to the regional institutions best able to bear them, and ensuring the
        accountability and transparency of these institutions
    · Fostering the development of the national road construction industry, and finding the appropriate
        balance between the public and private sectors in the roads sector
    · Improving roads safety, and
    · Reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS that is associated with improved road networks

5.      The GoM started its relationship with the World Bank through the First Roads and Coastal
Shipping Project (ROCS-1) approved in 1992 and closed in 1999, followed by ROCS-2 approved in 1994
and closed in 2003. Under these two operations, 3,800 km of roads were rehabilitated, 3,000 meters of
metallic bridges were installed, 2,000 km of roads received periodic maintenance, and more than 14,000
km received routine maintenance. In addition, significant progress in institutional strengthening and
building human resource capacities was made through education and training in the highway sub-sector.
Important institutional and policy reforms were initiated, including the creation of a Road Fund (RF) in
1995 within Direcção Nacional de Estradas e Pontes (DNEP) or National Directorate of Roads and
Bridges (transformed to Administraçao Nacional de Estradas (ANE) or National Road Administration in
1999), separation of force account construction companies from DNEP in 1997, and privatization of a
state-owned construction company (now called Construtora de Estradas Terrapalanas e Alcatroadas.
(CETA). Under ROCS-2, the Bank also supported GoM in rehabilitation of some roads and bridges on
emergency basis which were washed off during the floods of 2000/2001.

6.      This project, the Adaptable Program Lending Phase 1 (APL-1) to support the Roads and Bridges
Management and Maintenance Program (RBMMP) was first in a series of three phases, and was designed
to contribute to the GoM's high-level objectives of stimulating economic growth and reducing poverty
through improved road infrastructure, better sector policies, and enhanced roads sector management. At
the time of project preparation the GoM sent a Letter of Development Program (LDP) to the International
Development Association (IDA) in May 2001, which provided an overview of the ten year road program
to improve the primary and secondary road network in the country. The LDP also emphasized the gradual
increase of road maintenance funding, and the shift from the emergency type of road operations under
ROCS I and ROCS II to a more systemic approach under the RBMMP. An APL was designed to support
the ten year program (2001 to 2010) at an estimated cost of US$1.7 billion (IDA contribution, US$432
million) in three phases. Phase 1, of four years duration, supported periodic maintenance, selected
rehabilitation and institutional reforms in the roads sector. Phases 2 and 3 would be contingent on
achievement of agreed triggers. This implementation completion and results report (ICR) is for APL-1,
which supported GoM's four year road program (2001­04) at an estimated cost of US$703 million (IDA
contribution, US$162 million). APL-1 was approved by the Board of the World Bank on July 19, 2001;
became effective June 4, 2002; and was scheduled for closing June 30, 2005. It finally closed, however,
on June 30, 2007.

7.      To move from APL Phase 1 to Phase 2 there were nine triggers and by June 30, 2007 the project
closing date of Phase 1, seven triggers were fully achieved and two triggers were partially achieved. The
fully achieved triggers were: (a) Phase 1 road program completed; (b) RF separated from ANE; (c) Roads
Board fully functional; (d) RF provide agreed level of maintenance funds; (e) road safety plan satisfactory
completed; (f) HIV/AIDS prevention measures related to the road sector implemented; and (g)
preparatory activities of phase 2 satisfactorily completed. The two partially achieved triggers were: (a)
financial management (FM) of ANE and RF is satisfactory (while the FM of the RF was fully satisfactory,
ANE's FM still showed weaknesses ­ this has been addressed in APL2 by moving the FM responsibility



                                                    2

from ANE to RF); and (b) financial and technical audits carried out (these were done but the quality of
the technical audits was not satisfactory ­ this has been taken into account in the design of APL2 through
elaborate joint financial, technical and procurement audits agreed amongst all stakeholders). Given that
the triggers for APL Phase 1 were substantially achieved, APL Phase 2 was approved by the Board on
May 23, 2007 and the credit became effective on October 5, 2007.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.       Project objectives. As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) the objectives of the
RBMMP APL1 were to assist the Borrower in (i) improving the coverage and conditions of roads and
bridges; (ii) strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity to manage and administer the roads sector;
(iii) establishing financing mechanisms for roads maintenance; (iv) promoting the use of local resources
in roads construction and management; and (v) improving road transport safety. In addition, the
secondary objectives were to help prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS and to encourage employment of
women in the roads sector.

9.       Key performance indicators. The key performance indicators included measures of improved
road coverage and quality, such as size of the maintainable network, kilometers of roads under periodic
maintenance, kilometers rehabilitated, traffic volumes, truck freight rates, and percentage of roads in fair
or good condition. They included indicators of improved roads sector policies and management, such as
implementation of institutional reforms intended to improve roads management; installation of new FM
systems for the ANE and the RF; and periodic transfer of required amounts to the RF. They included
management benchmarks, such as the time for tendering, contracting road works, and payment to
contractors; and the percentage of works completed on time and within budget. Finally, they included
measures of social impacts, such as decreases in number and severity of accidents per vehicle kilometer
traveled, increase in HIV/AIDS awareness of people working on and living near roads included in the
program, and number of women workers employed by the program. A comparison of the performance
indicators planned at project appraisal in March 2001 and achieved by December 2006 is given in Annex
2, Table B.

1.3 Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

10.      The PDO and key performance indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.      As envisaged in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the primary target group included
several organizations and government agencies: the ANE, the RF, the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing (MoPWH), the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MoTC), and Instituto Nacional de
Viação (INAV; the National Traffic Institute). The project supported financing of civil works and
capacity building programs through providing technical assistance (TA) in specialized areas, training of
staff, and equipment. The provincial offices of the MoPWH also benefited from TA in strengthening
management capacity in road maintenance. The program also contributed to economic growth and
reducing poverty by lowering transportation costs, reducing travel time, increasing quality and coverage
of roads, and improving sector policies. The program contributed to the national effort to prevent the
spread of HIV/AIDS by carrying out awareness campaigns and distribution of condoms at work sites. The
project's main beneficiaries identified at appraisal remained unchanged during project implementation.




                                                      3

12.      The program also benefited the entire population, including road users, transporters, and rural
dwellers, because the investments were targeted to improve the country's regional and national road
network and to provide linkage with underserved rural areas. This provided rural people with better
access to markets, health and education facilities, and other basic services. The program also provided
social support to disadvantaged women by encouraging the employment of women at all levels and in all
capacities. In addition, the program benefited nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), civil society
organizations, and the private sector by providing them with the opportunity for employment generation
through participating in the construction and maintenance activities of national and regional roads. Local
contractors were allowed to use the benefit of domestic preference of 7.5 percent while competing with
their international counterparts.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

As stated in DCA, the project comprised the following three components:

1.5.1    Component A: Roads and Bridges

14.      Carrying out periodic maintenance on about 525 km of primary roads in the provinces of Maputo,
Gaza, Inhambane, Sofala, and Manica, through, inter alia (i) earthworks, including patch works, pothole
repair, local reinforcement, single layer or double layer pavement, resurfacing of gravel roads, and
resealing; (ii) maintenance and repair of road shoulders and drainage works; (iii) maintenance of the
roadsides, including clearing of drainage structures and cleaning and reshaping ditches; (iv) drainage
improvement, including rehabilitation of drains and ditches and masonry works; and (v) maintenance and
repair of bridges.

15.      Carrying out rehabilitation of about 313 km of N1 primary roads in the Borrower's provinces of
Maputo and Inhambane, through, inter alia (i) full base reconstruction, asphalt strengthening overlays,
selective deep patching and overlays, granular base overlay and surfacing, surface treatment with major
shape correction, recycling of one or more pavement layers, vegetation control, repainting road markings,
repairing and replacing road signs, and weigh bridge facilities; (ii) reconstruction of the roadsides,
including clearing of drainage structures and cleaning and reshaping ditches; (iii) drainage improvement,
including rehabilitation of drains and ditches and masonry works; and (iv) maintenance, repair, and
rehabilitation of bridges.

16.      Carrying out rehabilitation of about 412 km of rural roads in the Borrower's provinces of Gaza,
Nampula, and Tete, through, inter alia, (i) improvement of structural strength, shape, drainage, ride
quality, and performance; (ii) minor improvement to geometric and structural standards; and (iii)
maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation of bridges.

17.      Carrying out emergency repairs, design of tender documents, and supervision of works on roads
and bridges made necessary by floods or other natural disasters.

18.      Carrying out civil works and installation of traffic signs to improve road safety. Carrying out
engineering design, preparation of bidding documents, and supervision of the abovementioned civil works
through the provision of technical advisory services.

1.5.2    Component B: Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms

19.      Establishment of an institutional framework for the roads sector through the provision of
technical advisory services.



                                                     4

20.      Capacity building of the ANE and the RF for management, technical and financial auditing,
procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial management, and project management, through the
provision of technical advisory services.

21.      Establishment of a financial management framework for the ANE and the RF through the
provision of technical advisory services.

22.      Carrying out of the identification and implementation of road safety measures through the
provision of technical advisory services.

23.      Strengthening of the ANE's social unit responsible for addressing HIV/AIDS prevention
measures and social and labor impact of roads activities, through the provision of technical advisory
services.

24.      Capacity building for carrying out training programs for environmental assessment and
Mitigation Measures and Environmental Management Action Plan (MMEMAP) through the provision of
technical advisory services.

25.      Raising awareness of communities about the environmental issues regarding the project,
including the publication of overviews regarding project operations, and carrying out communication
campaigns regarding environmental issues, through the provision of technical advisory services.

26.      Raising road user awareness, including consultations with road users regarding road maintenance,
roads sector strategy, decisions on project issues, and need for the adjustment of road user fees by
carrying out communication campaigns including workshops, through the provision of technical advisory
services.

1.5.3    Component C: Strategy and Preparatory Activities for Further Investments

27.      Carrying out revisions to and updating integrated roads sector strategy to incorporate priorities
identified during stakeholder consultations, through the provision of technical advisory services.

28.      Carrying out environmental, socioeconomic, and social impact assessments of roads works for
further investments, through the provision of technical advisory services.

29.      Preparation of engineering designs and tender documents for the construction and rehabilitation
of roads for further investments, through the provision of technical advisory services.

1.6 Revised Components

30.      The project components and its associated subcomponents were not revised. However, the scope
of works under Component A Roads and Bridges was substantially modified (see section 1.7 below).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

31.      There were no changes made in the project design, objectives, and components. However,
changes were made in the project implementation schedules, scope and scale, funding reallocation, and
implementation arrangements, which are summarized as follows:




                                                     5

(a) Implementation schedule. The project closing date was extended two times--first by 18 months from
July 1, 2005, to December 31, 2006; and the second time by six months from January 1, 2007, to June 30,
2007. The second extension, giving a total of two years, was approved by the Regional Vice President
(RVP). The main reasons for these extension were (i) a delay in credit effectiveness; (ii) insufficient time
allowed in the initial plans to carry out the necessary activities; (iii) inadequate institutional capacity of
the ANE in the procurement of civil works and consulting services contracts; and (iv) time-consuming
bureaucratic procedures for getting approval from the Ministry of Finance (MoF) before signing contracts
(see also paragraph 35).

(b) Scope and scale. Under Component A, "Roads and Bridges", the following changes were made:
rehabilitation of primary roads changed from 313 km to 456 km, and periodic maintenance changed from
525 km to 295 km. This was caused by delays in the preparation of engineering design and bidding
documents; pre-contract award services; and contractors' mobilization, which led the roads to deteriorate
further before the commencement of works; accordingly, the scope of periodic maintenance decreased
and rehabilitation increased. As a result of high traffic levels on main roads, the economic returns are still
satisfactory. The rehabilitation of rural roads changed from 412 km to 76 km because insufficient funds
were left to complete this activity. Emergency repairs changed from an estimated US$6 million to US$1.5
million because the needs for the emergency repairs were found to be less than the appraisal estimates.

(c) Road safety civil works. Civil works relating to road safety (see paragraph 18 above) have not been
carried out as intended. Civil works and installation of traffic signs to improve road safety have been
implemented as a natural part of regular civil works contracts, but not as stand-alone traffic sign
installation contracts, as intended. Road safety measures (see paragraph 22 above) have been identified by
the road safety TA through road safety audits but none of the recommendations have been implemented,
mainly because the TA was engaged at a very late stage of the project. However, these recommendations
are now being implemented under APL-2.

(d) Funding reallocations. a reallocation of funds between categories was approved by the RVP on
December 21, 2006. The reallocation was necessary because more funds were required for rehabilitation
works and less for periodic maintenance works. Funds allocated for road safety were used within the
rehabilitation and periodic works contracts as an integral element of the bidding documents and were not
executed as separate contracts as originally planned. Also, less funding was used for rural roads than
originally planned because of cost increases experienced on the main road contracts.

(e) Implementation arrangements. Throughout, the overall implementation arrangement remained the
same as agreed at appraisal; however, under the ANE, one new unit was created that was directly
responsible to the Director General for management of environmental and social issues. This unit was
created in 2000 and is known as Unidade de Assuntos Sociais e Meio Ambiente (UASMA) (Social and
Environmental Unit).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

32.      The project was prepared based on the GoM's approved 1998 roads sector policy. It focused on
improved road infrastructure, better sector policies, and enhanced roads sector management. The
objectives were important for the country and sector because they aimed at stimulating economic growth
and reducing poverty. The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), Mozambique's poverty reduction strategy (Plano de Acção para a Redução da Pobreza Absoluta;
PARPA), and development priorities. The design of the project components was adequately linked to



                                                      6

achieving the project objectives. The Borrower's institutional capacity, availability of counterpart funding,
and the implementation period were discussed while designing the project components and scope of
works. The lessons learned from the previous transport sector projects were reflected in its design. The
project design was appropriate because it took into consideration what had been achieved in the roads
sector under its two predecessors ROCS-1 and ROCS-2, and what remained to be done. During the
October 1999 seminar, the GoM announced plans to implement the second and third generation
institutional reforms over the following years. The third generation reforms were compatible with the
Bank's recommended model in its Road Management Initiative (RMI), and they include (a) separating the
execution and funding functions and (b) establishing a RF as an autonomous legal entity governed by a
Board of Directors with representation from the private sector. APL Phase 1 supported the GoM in
implementing these reforms and the RF was separated from ANE in 2003.

33.      The three phase approach was adopted to ensure that policy and institutional reforms were
implemented before undertaking major investments in works. To ensure sustainability in the roads sector,
APL-1 placed emphasis only on urgent periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the classified road
network. The large investment needed for the construction of high level bridges (Zambezi River and
others) was placed under APL-2 and APL-3. The project recognized the need to give more importance to
connecting agriculturally productive areas through extending rehabilitation to rural roads, promoting road
safety, reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS, raising awareness of communities about environmental issues,
and building capacity through appropriate TA and training programs. The APL-1 work program was
based on the integrated roads sector strategy, which was developed through extensive consultations with
all key stakeholders, including representatives of central and local government agencies, the private sector,
NGOs, academic institutions, the donor community, and road users. To reach a consensus on
development priorities in the roads sector, four stakeholder workshops were held: two in Maputo, and one
each in Beira and Nampula. It was made very clear in the PAD that the later phases would not be
activated until institutional reforms had been completed, mechanisms for sustainable financing had been
put into place, and the RF had been performing satisfactorily.

34.      No Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review for quality at entry was carried out for this project.
However, a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) took place (see paragraph 65).

2.2 Implementation

35.      The client took more than nine months to meet the effectiveness condition of signing a subsidiary
agreement. The preparation of engineering design and bidding documents of civil works, although started
under ROCS-2, took more time than expected. The ANE took longer than programmed in following the
procurement process for large work and consulting services contracts. Approval from the MoF was
necessary before the ANE could sign the works contracts, which required long bureaucratic procedures.
As a result, contractors' mobilization was substantially delayed and there was practically no disbursement
during the initial two years. The ANE was created just a few months before the appraisal, and it was still
in a transition phase, which affected the implementation of the project; the project closing date was
extended by two years. However, in the later part of project implementation, progress gained momentum
and funds were disbursed 99.5 percent by October 31, 2007, the end of the four month grace period after
the closing of the Credit (see paragraph 69).

36.      The midterm review (MTR) of APL-1 was held from April 25 to 26, 2005. The ANE prepared a
MTR report, which was discussed in a roads sector workshop attended by about 200 participating
stakeholders. The MTR report made several recommendations with respect to improved roads sector
planning, works implementation, and FM. The key findings of the MTR were as follows: (a) revenues to
the RF from road user charges were sufficient to cover routine maintenance activities; (b) mechanisms for
the transfer of funds to the RF had changed since 2002 and the regularity of payments to the RF was


                                                     7

satisfactory; (c) successful bids for the nine IDA-financed projects along National Road N1 were 54
percent higher than the original estimates for rehabilitation and 135 percent higher for periodic
maintenance; (d) the ANE's annual plans had departed significantly from those contained in the project
implementation plan (PIP) and interventions had focused on rehabilitation rather than on periodic
maintenance because delays in project start caused roads to further deteriorate and the planned periodic
maintenance works became rehabilitation; (e) there had been considerable delays in the procurement of
civil works and engineering and consultancy services; (f) significant delays had been observed with
respect to payments by the ANE on account of delays in releasing counterpart funds from the MoF; and
(g) the TA approach needed to be revisited because TA staff were involved more in line functions instead
of conducting on-the-job training for ANE staff.

37.      No QAG review for supervision was carried out for this project.

2.2.1    Major Factors Affecting Implementation

38.      Factors outside the control of the GoM or implementing agencies

(i) Change in world market prices. Increases in costs of fuel, construction material (cement, steel, and
asphalt), equipment, and spare parts resulted in higher bid prices compared with the appraisal estimates.

(ii) Fluctuation in the foreign currency rates. The depreciation of the US dollar versus special drawing
rights (SDR) during the project implementation period brought more dollars to the credit, but this benefit
could not be realized because: (a) during 2002­03 when the bids for the large civil works contracts were
launched, the lowest bid prices were much higher than the appraisal estimates; and (b) during 2002­03
the South African Rand (SAR) appreciated, which contributed to higher bid prices because the local
expenditures in SAR needed more United States Dollars from the Credit.

(iii) Insufficient qualified staff. Because national staff with adequate technical skills are rare in the country
and the region, the ANE could not employ sufficiently qualified and experienced staff and had to depend
largely upon foreign TA. As well, the ANE could not engage national staff to work with TA staff for
counterpart training.

(iv) Poor performance of some contractors and consultants. Though the consultants and contractors were
selected using transparent and competitive procedures, the poor performance of some contractors and
consultants resulted in implementation delays or cost overruns of civil works contracts.

39.      Factors generally subject to government control

(i) Delay in meeting the effectiveness conditions. During project appraisal and negotiations, the GoM
agreed to sign the subsidiary agreement between the government and the ANE as an effectiveness
condition. However, it took a long time to prepare and sign the subsidiary agreement, which delayed the
project effective date by nine months.

(ii) Lack of counterpart funding. In the LDP the GoM committed to contributing US$3.3 million per year
as counterpart funding, but during project implementation, late release of counterpart funding delayed
contractors' payments. The situation was much improved by the end of 2005.

(iii) Bureaucratic procurement process. Even though the Bank provided the required clearances to sign
the contract documents within reasonable time, ANE could not sign contracts until the mandatory
approval from the MoF was received; this long bureaucratic procedure unnecessarily delayed the
execution of works and delivery of services.


                                                        8

(iv) Delay in recruiting ANE key staff. As the ANE was an autonomous agency, the terms and conditions
for employment of its staff were less attractive compared with the private sector and that delayed the
outputs of the project.

(v) Delay in refund of VAT claims. The civil work contractors paid in advance 17% extra as value added
tax (VAT) to various suppliers with the understanding that GoM will refund contractors at the time of
payments. The delay in payment of VAT refunds to contractors resulted in increase of bid prices by 20%.
Despite MoF's assurance, the payment of VAT refunds could not be regularized and on recommendation
of GoM, IDA is now financing VAT payments.


40.      Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

(i) Management effectiveness. Decision-making processes relating to procurement, contract management,
and the monitoring and evaluation framework resulted in delays. These processes need to be accelerated.

(ii) Inadequate information management system. Some studies were undertaken to strengthen the
information management system, but the ANE could not implement the recommendations of the studies
during the life of APL-1.

(iii) Effective use of technical assistance. The ANE did not place much emphasis on using TA staff for
job-oriented training of national counterparts and as a result the impact of TA on institutional building
was not very effective.

(iv) Comprehensive progress reporting. The ANE prepared progress reports on individual project activity,
but it could have produced more comprehensive project progress reports for the information of all
stakeholders and road users.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

41.      M&E design      Prior to project appraisal, the QER panel advised to design performance indicators
taking into account: (a) the key milestones of achievement in terms of program objectives; (b) indicators
more specific in terms of values; and (c) include monitoring and assessment framework. Accordingly, at
project negotiations a set of performance indicators with appropriate values and milestones was agreed
(see Annex 2, Table B). The key indicators were: condition of road network; collection of RF revenues
for road maintenance; and annual expenditure on road maintenance. In addition, the institutional
performance indicators were: separation of the RF from ANE; improvement in procurement; no delay in
contractors' payments; and setting up of a system to monitor the performance of the contractors and
consultants. All these indicators were relevant, appropriate, and were adequately linked to PDOs.
However, due to limited capacity of ANE, the monitoring and assessment framework was not designed in
defining clearly the roles and responsibilities for collecting data, carrying out base line studies, and
evaluating the performance of each PDO.

42.      M&E implementation. The monitoring and evaluation of the project was implemented consistent
with the agreed design. Data were collected from the road condition surveys, collection of RF revenues,
annual expenditure on road maintenance, and the road lengths that received routine and periodic
maintenance. Data was also collected from the progress reports of ANE, RF, and the provincial offices.
The methods used to collect data were generally reliable and reasonably correct. The road safety data
such as number of clashes and fatalities per 10,000 vehicles were collected from INAV. Due to lack of a



                                                       9

monitoring and assessment framework some data on the improvement in procurement for the delivery of
works and services, delay in contractors' payments, performance of the contractors and consultants could
not be assessed. Under APL-2, a well designed sector monitoring and assessment framework has been
designed, which was discussed and agreed in a stakeholders' workshop that was attended by government
agencies, IDA, and development partners (DP).

43.      M&E utilization. The data have been well utilized in the preparation of annual road maintenance
programs, allocation of the maintenance budget to provinces, transfer of RF revenues, developing action
plans aimed at policy and institutional reforms, restructuring of ANE, and in the decision-making process
wherever needed. The data collected have also been utilized in the preparation of the follow-on operation
APL-2 in the road sector.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

44.      Environment. The project was rated as Environmental Category A. Before project appraisal, a full
environmental impact assessment (EIA) was carried out for all planned road works and the conclusion
was that the planned road works would only have limited negative impact on the environment. None of
the road works were located in sensitive ecological areas, and involved only minor resettlement issues. In
the ANE, UASMA was responsible for monitoring the implementation of the environmental management
plan for all works. To ensure adequate supervision the ANE produced: (i) "Environmental Guidelines for
Road Works in Mozambique"; (ii) environmental management guidelines (1996); and (iii) a field manual
(1998), which were reviewed by the Bank supervision team. The UASMA carried out site visits to ensure
quality assurance, and environmental inspection checklists were used for each of the site visits.

45.      Financial management and disbursement. The quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR)
were received regularly, though they were not fully compliant with the agreed format and the
procurement sections were missing. Despite the ANE's efforts to reconcile special accounts regularly,
substantial delays were noted in responding to the transactions that were deducted from the withdrawal
applications. The ANE submitted audit reports regularly and auditors highlighted in their management
letters some weaknesses in the internal control system, which were addressed by the ANE and supervised
by the Bank financial management specialist. In some Implementation Status Results and Report (ISR),
the availability of counterpart funding was shown as "unsatisfactory"; as a result, payments to contractors
were delayed. However, the Bank team raised the issue with appropriate authorities, the situation
improved during project implementation, and by the project closing the issue was resolved satisfactorily.

46.      Procurement. Before project appraisal, an assessment of the ANE's procurement management
capacity was carried out. Overall procurement risks were assessed and an action plan to mitigate the
procurement risks was agreed on. Despite the ANE's efforts to implement the action plan, procurement
delays occurred. To deal with complex issues, the ANE engaged a contract management specialist and a
claims expert through the project financed TA program. In general, the Bank's procurement guidelines
and standard procedures were followed satisfactorily and no major procurement problems were
encountered during project implementation. Procurement plans were discussed during every supervision
mission. Post-procurement reviews for selected contracts were carried out and the Bank team discussed
its reports with the ANE.

47.      Social issues. The Bank supervision team identified gaps in the technical capacity within
UASMA and financed short-term TA to engage a social specialist to prepare a resettlement action plan
and a resettlement policy framework, not only for the Bank-supported projects but for all other projects
that fall under the responsibility of the ANE. At the time of project approval, it was believed that the
maintenance or rehabilitation of the road segments would not entail land acquisition or resettlement.



                                                     10

However, in case of one contract, mostly in the city of Maputo, it became necessary to acquire about
1,300 land parcels within or near the road reserve including houses and informal businesses, and areas for
borrow pits, construction camps and drainage. This property acquisition followed government procedures,
which was not consistent with the Bank's Safeguard Policy and in order to bring it back to social
safeguard compliance the Bank team undertook a resettlement audit and ANE implemented its
recommendations. It was agreed that ANE in collaboration with provincial and land officials will be
responsible for all land acquisition, compensation evaluation, negotiations and payments, and as well as
for dispute regulation.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

48.     The preparation of the follow-on project commenced at the MTR of this project in May 2005. In
the meantime the GoM, jointly with the DPs prepared a follow-on project in the amount of US$1.043
billion to be executed in a sector-wide framework representing an integrated roads program for the
calendar years 2007­09, called Programa Integrado do Sector de Estradas (PRISE) or (Integrated Road
Sector Program) PRISE has successfully adopted the lessons learned at the MTR, including those related
to capacity constraints and those related to the need for harmonization of DP procedures.            After
confirmation that the triggers for APL-2 had been successfully fulfilled, IDA contributed to PRISE a
US$100 million credit, which was approved by the Board on May 23, 2007, and became effective on
October 5, 2007. PRISE includes a pooled fund that is jointly funded by the RF and a number of DPs.
IDA will contribute US$35 million to the pooled fund, while the balance of the credit will finance the
rehabilitation and upgrading of priority sections of the N1 through parallel funding.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

49.     The project was designed to contribute to its high-level objectives to stimulate economic growth
and contribute to poverty reduction through improved road infrastructure, better sector policies, and
enhanced roads sector management. The project objectives were clear, relevant, and important, fitting
with the development priorities of the country in the roads sector and consistent with the GoM's sector
policy and strategy. The project components were reasonable and had good linkage with the project
objectives. The program strongly supported the CAS objectives to promote economic growth to reduce
poverty and improve the well-being of the Mozambican people. The government's growth and poverty
reduction strategy paper (PRSP) and the CAS explicitly identified increased investment in infrastructure
(roads, in addition to energy, water, and communications) as the single most efficient contribution to
long-term growth and to improved well-being of the poor. The program was designed to contribute to the
PRSP and CAS goals in several ways: (i) supporting economic opportunities (first CAS pillar) by
improving rural access to markets and services (particularly for densely populated and high agricultural
potential areas); (ii) improving traders' access to neighboring countries and maintaining the principal
national and coastal links to promote tourism and national unity. It was also designed to support
government efforts to rehabilitate and maintain feeder roads serving the rural poor. It also contributed to
help increase human capabilities (second CAS pillar) by supporting activities to prevent the spread of
HIV/AIDS and reduce injuries and deaths from traffic accidents and promoting gender equity by
encouraging employment of women in the roads sector at all levels and in all capacities and increasing
female access to transportation. It also contributed to improving governance and public administration
(third CAS pillar) by establishing an efficient and accountable institutional framework for roads
management and administration, fostering private sector participation in road rehabilitation and
maintenance, and strengthening decentralized road planning and management processes.




                                                     11

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

50.      As given in section 1.2 above, there were five PDOs. The relative importance of their linkage to
the program's overall development goals and rating for their achievement is described below for each
objective

(a) The first development objective, "improving the coverage and condition of roads and bridges in the
territory of the Borrower," was adequately linked with the overall program development goal of
stimulating economic growth. Its rating is assessed as "satisfactory" because the project has successfully
completed 751 km of rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works on the National Road N1, and 76 km
of rural roads. Initially it was planned to rehabilitate and do periodic maintenance works on 838 km of
national roads (achievement 89%) and 412 km of rural roads (achievement 18%). Design and bidding
documents for the full amount of roads works planned had been prepared but could not be implemented
due to the substantial cost increased encountered. The works that could not be completed under Phase 1
has been picked up by IDA under APL Phase 2 and by other DPs. Despite the fact that with the IDA
credit less roads were covered than planned the total length of roads in good and fair condition at the end
of the project (17,352 km) exceeded the target value (15,000 km) by 15 percent.
.
(b) The second objective, "strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity to manage and administer
the roads sector," was closely linked with the overall program development goal. Its rating is assessed as
"moderately satisfactory" because most of the studies aimed at strengthening were completed, but
because of ongoing institutional and managerial changes at the ANE, it was not possible to fully
implement the recommendations of the studies completed. Procurement delays caused ANE to take a long
time to recruit the staff for the TA team. On account of a shortage of technical manpower in Mozambique,
the ANE could not recruit qualified and experienced local personnel, so national staff could not be trained
as expected. In addition, the existing ANE organizational structure needed a critical review. Accordingly
ANE was restructured (this was a condition of effectiveness of APL-2) and the top 20 positions were
filled through competitive selection and performance of ANE has already shown signs of improvement.

(c) The third objective, "establishing financing mechanisms for road maintenance," was relevant to the
overall program objectives. Its rating is assessed as "highly satisfactory" because RF revenues from road
users' charges increased from US$35 million in 2002 to US$61.3 million by June 30, 2007. The road
fund revenues actually collected in years 2004, 2005 and 2006 exceeded their targets (see Annex 2, Table
B). The project has been successful in financing routine maintenance and the regularity of transferring
funds to the RF has significantly improved. In years 2005 and 2006 the Government budget for
investment projects in the road sector substantially increased to US$28.1 million and US$ 30.9 million
respectively compared with no budget for investment projects in the year 2004. The total government
allocation to the RF including transfer of road user's charges and counterpart funding in the year 2006
was US$87.6 million compared with the target of US$ 60 million. The RF is now a separate entity from
the ANE, with its own management and board of directors, with representation from the private sector.
The RF also has its own FM system and is subject to financial and technical audits. Based on good
performance of RF under APL Phase 1, the responsible agency for the implementation of Phase 2 will be
the RF and Phase 2 will be implemented using sector wide approach in the road sector.

(d) The fourth objective, "promoting the use of local resources in road construction and management,"
was adequately linked with the overall program development goal. Its rating is assessed as "satisfactory"
because under the guidance of its material section ANE succeeded in testing and specifying the use of
local materials that are expected to lead to substantial cost savings in the road sector. ANE is currently in
the process to formally publish these technical specifications and in the APL-2 road works these
specifications are now being applied.



                                                     12

(e) The fifth objective of improving road transport safety was adequately linked with the overall program
development objective and its rating is assessed as "moderately unsatisfactory" on account of the
following reasons: (a) no specific road safety civil works were executed except those that were part of
regular civil work contracts i.e. road markings, signs, etc. and no black spots were identified; (b) the
identification of road safety measures has partly been done by the TA through a road safety strategy
study; (c) implementation of the driver license and vehicle registration program started at the end of the
project; and (d) ANE has not been able to carry out road safety audit at the engineering design stage; and
(e) a reliable accident data base has not yet been established.

(f) Regarding the secondary objective of helping to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS, though the risk from
improved mobility remains substantial, the project provided support to the ANE by taking all possible
measures through (i) financing of an HIV/AIDS specialist, a Database Management Specialist, and a
Social Advisor; (ii) providing equipment and material to support the ANE's UASMA; (iii) including
HIV/AIDS prevention clauses in the conditions of civil works contracts; (iv) organizing awareness
campaigns; and (v) distributing condoms at the work sites. Its rating is assessed as "satisfactory."

(g) The ANE has been successful in achieving most of the outcome indicators under each PDO. However,
some outcome indicators aimed at strengthening ANE's institutional capacity in improving procurement
and FM functions could not be achieved because the ANE did not have adequate capacity to carry out the
baseline study at the project start. For example, under the PDO of improving the coverage and condition
of the road network, the share of roads in fair and good condition has increased by 15 percent and as
explained above good progress has been achieved for the PDO of establishing financing mechanisms for
road maintenance. As shown in Annex 2, Table C, the road safety situation in Mozambique has not
improved and accidents have increased in line with the increased numbers of vehicles on the roads (even
slightly above that). However, under the project a road safety policy and strategy has been developed and
it is now being implemented under APL-2.

3.3 Efficiency

51.      At project appraisal all the road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works were
economically feasible and the overall net present value (NPV) was US$174 million and a weighted
average economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was 22.5 percent (for 914 km). The economic analysis at
project completion, using the RED analysis model indicated that the overall NPV is US$163 million and a
weighted EIRR is 22 percent (for 761 kilometers). On N1 traffic volume substantially increased and with
the delay of two years in project completion traffic volume further increased compared with the appraisal
forecasts. The high traffic volumes would have increased EIRR but taking into account the increase in
construction costs it rather remained the same.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

52.      The overall outcome rating based on the combined assessment of relevance, achievement of
PDOs, and efficiency as explained above is "satisfactory." The rate of return for the completed projects
22 percent using actual costs and traffic levels, and increased traffic on completed road projects well
justifies the rating of "satisfactory".

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts




                                                      13

3.5.1     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53.      The project has contributed to additional outcomes and impacts, as follows:

(a) Poverty impacts. The project contributed to reducing poverty through generating employment
opportunities, lowering transportation costs, and reducing travel time, though no specific study was
carried out to measure its impact on poverty.

(b) Gender aspects. The project contributed to promoting employment opportunities for women, both at
the project sites and in the ANE offices at headquarters and in provinces, though no specific data is
available. The social and environmental unit, Unidade de Assuntos Sociais e Meio Ambiente (Social and
Environmental Unit of the ANE) UASMA, has carried out baseline studies but it is too early to measure
the real impact on gender aspects.

(c) Social development. The project contributed to social issues, specifically preventing the spread of
HIV/AIDS, by conducting awareness campaigns, distributing condoms at work sites, introducing
HIV/AIDS prevention clauses in the contract documents, and compiling baseline studies for some project
areas.

(d) Socio-Economic Study: A socio-economic study for the rehabilitation of the selected sections of N1
road and other rural roads in five provinces was carried out with an objective to collect baseline
information and draw-up the social and economic profile of the communities along the areas of influence
of these roads. The study has collected the information on demographic aspects, characteristics of the
households, accessibility to the social and health network, which will be useful in the planning and
development of future road work programs.

3.5.2     Institutional Change/Strengthening

54.       During the project implementation period, the GoM issued four decrees and operating
instructions that impacted the sector. The first decree, number 20/2003, included regulations for the
institutional and financial framework within which the roads sector operates. The second decree, number
21/2003, created an inter-ministerial Road Commission comprising the MoPWH, the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MoPD), MoTC, and the Ministry of State Administration (MoSA). The
commission is GoM's coordinating body for the roads sector. It is charged with giving opinions on
relevant aspects of road policy and management, and on issues that cut across several sectors. The third
decree, number 22/2003, created the RF as an autonomous agency. The fourth decree, number 23/2003,
simplified the regulations and organizational structure of the National Road Agency (ANE), which was
already an autonomous agency. Decree 23/2003 adjusted the ANE's structure by removal of the RF. The
ANE's advisory role in relation to the provinces remained unchanged. The Provincial Directorates of
MoPWH retained responsibility for routine maintenance of National Roads (primary and secondary) and
all works on tertiary roads. Now the ANE and the RF have separate boards, which was an important
development for the operation and financing of the roads sector. RF revenues have increased substantially
since the beginning of the program, and this is a positive sign for project sustainability.

55.      All four decrees were aimed at implementing the second round of roads sector reforms in
Mozambique. They describe the new road administration system and set out the basic structure, functions,
and responsibilities of the RF and the ANE. The RF, which formed part of ANE under the first round of
reforms of 1999, was established as an autonomous body reporting to the MoPWH. The objectives of the
RF are to guarantee financing for the implementation of the government's policies on maintenance and
development of public roads, and promote increased participation of road users in the provision of funds.
The RF is responsible for collecting funds from government and external sources, approving spending


                                                    14

plans, and disbursing funds for work completed according to pre-approved budgets and programs. The
principal task of the RF is to receive funds for the sector, and then allocate, disburse, and monitor their
use by the ANE and other executing agencies. The RF is responsible for carrying out financial and
technical audits of its expenditures, including works done in the provinces.

56.      The reform of the sector has produced positive results, allowing the RF and the ANE to focus,
respectively, on finance and works implementation for the sector. However, it was found in practice that
ANE's advisory role to the provinces on road maintenance was not producing the desired results, because
it was difficult to advise and monitor without having any line authority over the organizations carrying
out the works. The responsibility for works on all classified roads (primary, secondary, tertiary, and
vicinal) was transferred to the ANE as a result of a meeting of the Consultative Council of the MoPWH
held in Beira in October 2005 through the transfer of the Provincial Departments of Roads and Bridges to
the ANE. This provided a single point of responsibility for Mozambique's main road network. The ANE
will act as the provider of road services to the provincial governments, involving them in planning and
keeping them informed of developments. The jurisdiction of the ANE network has now increased from
12,860 km to 29,349 km. This change in responsibility was welcomed by IDA and it is a positive step that
will lead to improved road network management.

57.      The initial steps in the adoption of a sector-wide approach with a "pooled fund" and sector budget
support have been taken following lengthy negotiations between the GoM and DPs. The IDA will
contribute to "pooled fund" under APL-2 approved on May 23, 2007.

3.5.3 Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

58.      There have been no major unintended outcomes or impacts from project implementation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

59       The ANE and the RF organized several stakeholder workshops: (i) to update roads sector strategy
during project preparation in 2001; (ii) to launch the project after it was declared effective in 2002; and
(iii) to conduct the MTR in April 2005 to discuss the progress achieved and the way forward. All these
workshops were opened and closed by the Ministry of the MoPWH and were attended by more than 200
persons, including representatives of government agencies, provincial authorities, NGOs, civil societies,
the private sector, and DPs interested in the roads sector. The stakeholder workshops have been found to
be instrumental in communicating the government's vision and roads sector policies to all stakeholders.
This also helped in reaching a consensus on the priorities and selection criteria for the proposed
investment in the sector. The MoPWH has taken steps to increase the amount of positive media coverage
that the sector receives.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

60.      No substantial risk is foreseen to the sustainability of the project because the GoM has shown a
strong commitment in allocation of maintenance funding, which has increased from US$35 million in
2002 to US$61.3 million in June 2007 and is sufficient considering the current budget estimate. Because
the source of this funding are road user charges, such as fuel levies, licensing fees, and other charges, this
will need updating to account for inflation and to allow for additional funding needed for road
maintenance in the following years. Increases in oil prices have restricted the scope for further increase in
the fuel levy, and may have had a negative impact on fuel sales. There is no mechanism to guarantee



                                                       15

automatic increases in the levy; such increases will require MoF's approval. There is a risk that the
government may not approve the increase in road user charges. This risk has been mitigated by fixing the
fuel levy in equivalent US currency; however, the effort to fix the fuel levy as a percentage of the fuel
price is in process. The second major risk is corruption. This risk has been mitigated through making
procurement process more transparent, efficient and adhering to the public disclosure policy. The third
risk is inadequate management capacity to implement a work program of US$340 million a year. This
risk has been mitigated through the restructuring of ANE including the competitive selection of its 20 key
positions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

    Rating:       Moderately Satisfactory

61.      The Bank's performance at entry is assessed as "moderately satisfactory." The Bank's staff
worked closely with the staff of the ANE in a diagnostic evaluation of the transport sector issues facing
Mozambique and provided support in the preparation of the roads sector strategy. The Bank mission gave
extensive comments on the preliminary report on the strategy, which was discussed in a seminar. The
final report on roads sector strategy was distributed to all DPs interested in the sector. The Bank team
provided advisory support in preparation of the final EIA report, which was cleared by the Bank in
February 2001, and disclosed by the Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Activities for public
consultation in Mozambique. It was also disclosed by the Public Information Center of the World Bank.
The Bank also cleared the resettlement policy framework, which was prepared by the GoM with support
from a consultant. Before the start of engineering design for any road work, the Bank team ensured that it
did not induce any resettlement or compensation issues or the resettlement, if any, was carried out
satisfactorily.

62.      The appraisal team provided adequate emphasis on improving accounting and FM systems within
the operational directorates of the ANE and the RF, and ensured the systems were in place before project
effectiveness. The interim manual of accounting and administrative procedures was reviewed and
approved by the Bank. An action plan to strengthen fiduciary aspects, such as procurement administration,
FM system, and environmental management, was agreed on with the ANE. To ensure successful
implementation of the project, the Bank team and the client agreed on a financial covenant that the
following reports would be submitted regularly: (i) financial reports describing actual sources and
expenditures of funds used for the project; (ii) status reports describing physical progress and explaining
variances between the actual and forecast implementation targets; (iii) procurement reports explaining the
status of procurement and expenditures financed out of the credit proceeds; and (iv) a project
management report at the end of each calendar quarter.

63.      Although the Bank team made every possible effort to focus on all the relevant sector issues, it
overestimated the client's management capacity to deliver a work program of more than US$160 million
per year. It also did not adequately assess that the GoM's bureaucratic procedures would result in missing
the effectiveness condition within the scheduled three-month period after the Board presentation. As a
result, a key effectiveness condition--signing the subsidiary agreement between the MoF and the ANE--
could not be successfully met until 9 months after the Board presentation. Given that the consultants for
carrying out detailed engineering design and preparation of bidding documents were engaged under
ROCS-2, the engineering design and the bidding documents were not ready at the time of Board



                                                     16

presentation in July 2001. The bidding documents were launched in July 2003 and the contracts were
signed in May 2004. During project preparation, performance indicators were discussed and agreed, but
there was no discussion on setting up a monitoring and assessment framework (see paragraph 41).

64.     The overall risks at project entry were correctly assessed as "substantial" The following risks
were correctly assessed as "high" (i) the risk to timely implementation of agreed policy and institutional
reforms; (ii) the risk to financial resources for road maintenance not provided; and (iii) the risk to increase
in transmission of HIV/AIDS due to improved mobility. The appropriate measures were taken for
mitigation. The risk resulting from institutional and implementation capacity was also correctly assessed
as "Substantial"; and to mitigate this risk IDA-financed TA was provided, aimed at strengthening the
capacity of the ANE. Before project appraisal in March 2001, a QER meeting took place on January 16,
2001. The QER panel concluded that it was a high risk­high reward operation and was generally satisfied
with the concept and design, overall program objectives, and sector strategy.

65.     The project's quality at entry was not reviewed by the Bank QAG. However, it was reviewed by
QER and its panel was composed in consultation with the Transport Sector Board and QAG.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

66.     The Bank's supervision of the project was rated as "satisfactory." The skill mix of the Bank
supervision team was well balanced and the Bank team provided guidance to the ANE in meeting the
effectiveness conditions. The project launch seminar was held August 19­21, 2002, and was attended by
representatives of government ministries, provincial governments, and public agencies. To strengthen
policy and institutional reforms, the Bank facilitated the initial contacts for twinning between the ANE
and the Brazilian Road Authority, though this was not followed up to achieve tangible results. The Bank
team provided technical support in the preparation of the draft legal documents to separate the RF from
the ANE so that the functions of allocation of funds and execution of civil works could be under separate
managements, thus promoting transparency and accountability in the management of the roads sector.
The RF has its own management board with participation from the private sector. To ensure timely and
stable flow of maintenance funding, the RF had its own financial management system since March 31,
2003. To mitigate the risk for HIV/AIDS transmission from improved mobility, the Bank team provided
support through recruitment of an HIV/AIDS specialist, and a database management specialist with
provision for equipment and material.

67.     Throughout implementation, the team provided timely advice and follow-up action on
procurement, financial management, and environmental aspects of the project. The project
implementation generally had realistic performance ratings in the ISRs. However, in the initial
implementation period of the years 2002 and 2003 the rating shown in ISRs as "satisfactory" seems to be
too optimistic compared with the actual implementation performance in that period because the
disbursement for the first two years remained slow. The quality of ISR in describing project status,
providing explanations for summary rating, and highlighting key issues and actions was satisfactory. The
MTR mission was substantive and the team used the opportunity to refocus the government on the project
objectives. The supervision team reviewed the regularity of submission of FMR for the project. The
supervision team also effectively monitored the implementation of the policy measures proposed. Field
supervision of civil works contracts was adequate with detailed field visit reports written and attached in
aides-memoires.

68.     Bank relations with other DPs were collaborative. After the MTR of this project, the DPs, jointly
with the GoM, embarked on the development of the follow-on phase through a sector-wide approach with


                                                       17

strong harmonization of individual DP approaches and the introduction of a pooled fund (of US$300
million over three years). The DP group includes 19 multi- and bilateral partners. It is currently led by
the African Development Bank representative in Maputo.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

69.     The Bank's overall performance is rated as "satisfactory." The QER panel at project entry
concluded that this was a "high-risk/high-reward" operation and was generally satisfied with the project
concept and design. The Bank team at project entry assessed all risks with due diligence and adequate
mitigation measures were taken into account. The Bank also assessed the institutional capacity of ANE to
implement a project of this size and accordingly made the necessary provisions of capacity building
through technical assistance program. Had ANE not taken such a long time in the selection of TA team
(see paragraph 76), the project would have been completed on schedule. However, after the initial delays
the Bank supervision team managed project well and ANE succeeded to disburse 99.5 percent by October
31, 2007, the end of four-month grace period after project closing and the remaining available funds will
be cancelled.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

70.     The government's performance has been rated as "satisfactory" both at project entry and project
implementation, taking into account the following facts:

71.     During project preparation, the GoM showed strong commitment by presenting its vision in an
October 1999 seminar to implement second- and third-generation institutional reforms over the following
two years. These reforms included separating the funding and execution functions and were compatible
with the Bank's recommendation based on the models in the RMI.

72.     The GoM also showed a firm commitment through sending a LDP on May 2, 2001, before
negotiations held later that month. The LDP was signed by the Minister of Planning and Development
and it confirmed (i) establishment of sustainable and adequate funding mechanisms mainly by ensuring
that all fuel levies statutorily earmarked for the purpose would be transferred to the RF fully and
promptly; (i) raising fuel levies necessary to ensure funding of pluriannual maintenance from US$0.09 in
2002, to US$0.095 in 2003, and US$0.10 in 2004; (iii) transferring RF-earmarked revenues according to
the established targets of US$37.1 million in 2002 to US$50.9 million in 2005; (iv) transferring US$3.4
million every year (total US$13 million in four years) as counterpart funding for the investment budget to
carry out road rehabilitation works; (v) allocating US$189 million as a contribution from the RF during
the period 2001­05 (planned period of APL-1), which included 100 percent routine maintenance and 60
percent periodic maintenance; (vi) implementing a comprehensive road safety program through
enhancing the supervisory role of the ANE and INAV in matters of road safety; and (vii) protecting the
environment through explicit consideration of the environmental impact of road works.

73.     In the DCA signed September 21, 2001, the GoM agreed to execute the subsidiary agreement
between the Borrower and the ANE as an effectiveness condition. However, it took more than nine
months to meet this effectiveness condition.




                                                    18

74.     On the institutional and policy side, the government issued four decrees on May 20, 2003, that
covered important developments in the management of the roads sector. The first decree, number 20/2003,
included regulations for the institutional and financial framework within which the roads sector operates.
The second decree, number 21/2003, created an inter-ministerial Road Commission comprising the
MoPWH, MoPD, MoTC, and MoSA The third decree, number 22/2003, created the RF as an autonomous
agency. The fourth decree, number 23/2003, simplified the regulations and organizational structure of the
National Road Agency (ANE), which was already an autonomous agency. Now the ANE and the RF have
separate boards, which is an important development for the operation and financing of the roads sector.
The road fund revenues increased from US$35 million in 2002 to US$56.7 million in 2006. This was a
positive step towards project sustainability.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     There was only one key implementing agency, the ANE, and its performance both at project entry
and at project implementation is assessed as "moderately satisfactory."

76.     At project entry the ANE showed a firm commitment by organizing a seminar to discuss roads
sector strategy and the four-year (2001-04) road program with other stakeholders. ANE provided support
in carrying out EIAs, preparing environmental management plan, and disclosing EIAs and the
resettlement policy framework for public information. ANE and the Bank carried out an assessment of the
implementation capacity for procurement and FM and an action plan was agreed to mitigate the risks.
Considering that the ANE was a newly established agency and its technical capacity to manage a road
program US$703 million in four years was not adequate, ANE agreed with the Bank to engage IDA
financed technical assistance team comprising several experts in the field of project coordination, material
specialist, pavement specialist, procurement, environment and financial management. To select TA team,
ANE took a long time in the preparation of TOR, inviting expression of interests, completing evaluation
process and finally TA team was on board in April 2006.

77.     The ANE also showed a firm commitment to fulfilling the effectiveness conditions by engaging
consultants to establish FM system, adopting FM manual, employing auditors and a Chief Financial
Officer. ANE opened the counterpart fund accounts but the delay in its transfer from MoF resulted in
payment delays to the contractors in the year 2004 and 2005, however the situation was much improved
in the year 2006. ANE and RF carried out financial audits every year and sent reports to the Bank along
with management letter. Audit reports were found satisfactory. However, some weaknesses were
highlighted in the internal control system and FM issues, which were resolved through an action plan
agreed between ANE and the Bank. Prior to project closing, ANE started producing FMR on quarterly
basis, which were found in compliance with the provisions of the Legal Agreement. The FM system in
RF was found satisfactory and as a result the FM responsibility for APL Phase 2 has been moved from
ANE to RF.

78.     Since the project began in June 2002, ANE succeeded in completing 751 km of periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation of national roads compared with 838 km agreed at appraisal. For the
rehabilitation of rural road 76 km were completed against the target of 412 km. The engineering design
and the bidding documents for the remaining uncompleted works were ready but the contracts could not
be awarded because no project funds were left available (see paragraphs number 50 a). ANE took a long
time in the preparation of engineering design because the request for proposal to select design consultants
was launched in March 2001 under ROCS-2, the contracts were signed in April 2002, and the final



                                                    19

engineering design was sent to Bank in June 2003. ANE launched bidding process in August 2003, and
after seeking final approval from MoF, the contracts were finally signed in May 2004, and all this resulted
in cost overruns and the extension of project closing date by two years. Due to inadequate managerial
capacity, ANE could not set up the monitoring assessment framework and some of the agreed indicators
to improve FM and the delivery of the procurement services could not be monitored. MoPWH in general
was satisfied with the overall performance of ANE, and in October 2005, the responsibility of tertiary
roads was transferred from the Provincial Directorates of MoPWH to ANE. The ANE road network was
increased from 12,860 km to 29,349 km. On Bank's advice MoPWH carried out a critical review of
ANE's organization structure. As a result the restructuring is now in progress and the top 20 positions
have been filled as an effectiveness condition of APL-2 (see paragraph number 50 b). INAV also
successfully managed to provide electronic drivers' licenses in Mozambique to meet Southern African
Development Community standards. Although there were public complaints about the award of contracts
for civil works and electronic drivers' licenses, both ANE and INAV provided satisfactory explanations
to the complainants.

79.      The ANE established UASMA in 2000 to promote environmental management of the road
program and other social issues, including HIV/AIDS prevention, gender equality, and assessing poverty
reduction. The project made good progress on HIV/AIDS prevention, though the risk remained high. No
data is available on the number of women employed on the road project sites.

80.      The ANE began performing technical audits for the first time. The quality of these audits caused
some concern; however, this experience has provided good lessons for future technical audits. As
indicated in the DCA under other covenants (Article V, Section 5.02), the RF also carried out technical
audits of their operations.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

81.      The Borrower's overall performance is rated as "satisfactory," taking into account the following:
(a) MoPWH's strong commitment to implement institutional reforms of setting up ANE Roads Board and
separating RF from ANE under a separate board and management; (b) ensuring stable flow of
maintenance funding through generating road fund revenues, which were increased from US$28.1m in
2001 to US$61.3m in June 2007; (c) providing high priority for the road sector in the investment budget
though allocating US$28.1m in 2005 and US$30.9 m in 2006 compared with no budget in 2004; (d)
setting up of a dedicated unit (UASMA) within ANE to address social and environmental issues; and (e)
restructuring of ANE through filling top 20 positions through a competitive selection process, which has
already shown signs of improvement.

6. Lessons Learned

82.      Implementation delays. Out of the nine large civil work contracts, only one was completed on
schedule. Contractors requested and the ANE agreed to the time extensions, which varied from 20 percent
to more than 150 percent of their contractual time schedules. The main reasons for these delays were
underestimated contract durations at the design stage, delays in the decision-making process of the ANE,
inadequate contract management, and poor performance of some contractors and consultants. This
resulted in additional costs, loss of economic benefits that were projected at project appraisal, and
ineffective use of national resources. Therefore, it is critical for the ANE to carry out an assessment of
institutional capacity and develop work programs that can be delivered successfully using agreed on time
schedules.



                                                    20

83.      Cost overruns. There were cost overruns on most of the civil works contracts compared with their
signed contract values, which varied from 0 to 47 percent for three periodic maintenance contracts, and 0
to 95 percent for six rehabilitation contracts. The cost overrun for all contracts was 27 percent. ANE
approved some contractors' claims and these could have been easily avoided if more efforts had been
made at reviewing engineering designs and if ANE had made prompt technical decisions during the
implementation phase. As a result there were funding shortfall and, only 20 percent of the rural road
works could be completed, even though engineering design and bidding documents were ready for
contract award. The ANE's MTR report clearly indicated that these increases would have been avoided if
due attention had been paid to the commercial environment at the time of project appraisal. Therefore, it
is critical for the ANE to strengthen its technical planning and management capacity through the
recruitment of technical staff with the desired skills.

84.      Long bureaucratic procedures for signing contracts with foreign companies. The ANE cannot
sign contracts with foreign companies without prior approval from the MoPWH and the MoF, which
involves long bureaucratic procurement approval procedures external to the ANE. This results in long
delays between the selection of consultants or contractors and their ability to begin delivering services. To
mitigate these procurement delays, it is important for the GoM to review existing procurement procedures
and simplify the contract signing process by reducing the need for external approvals.

85.      Restructuring of the ANE. Before November 2005, responsibility for the management of the
classified road network was split between the ANE (primary and secondary roads) and provincial public
works offices under the governor of each province (tertiary and vicinal roads). In November 2005, the
GoM decided to merge the roads section of the provincial road offices and the ANE into one body
responsible for the management of the entire classified road network. For that purpose, an appropriate
organizational structure, in line with modern road management principles, is needed both at ANE
headquarters and at provincial levels. Furthermore, a minimum of the top 50 key positions of this new
structure need to be selected through a transparent and competitive process. It is important to review the
salary structure of ANE and RF staff regularly and to adjust it to comparable levels in the private sector or
other government institutions of similar importance.

86.      Use of local building materials. The coastal areas of Mozambique have few naturally available
materials suitable for road building. Crushed stone must be hauled to coastal sites from distant quarries,
which adds substantially to the cost of road construction. The ANE has carried out research with support
from the University of Texas on the use of locally available material (sand which is used with asphalt) for
the construction of roads. The result of the research needs to be applied in the new road designs.

87.      Weak management information systems. The ANE has no reliable information system, which is a
critical ingredient for monitoring and evaluating the performance of project activities. The ANE needs to
set up an information system that will allow management to monitor project performance and permit
decision makers to take appropriate actions. The renewal of the existing highway management system
was an important activity under the project, but could not be completed. The ANE needs to follow up on
setting up the highway management system to ensure the planning, management, and implementation of
road maintenance programs are technically sound.

88.      Technical assistance. The ANE has been using long-term TA since the beginning of its working
relationship with the Bank in 1992. Its impact has not been as useful as expected. The MTR report
emphasized that the ANE should have used TA staff more in building up institutional capacity through
assigning full-time national counterparts, and as indicated in the project appraisal documents, ANE
should not have used TA staff in line positions. Given that TA is expensive, it is critical for the ANE to



                                                      21

develop a strategy to ensure that the use of TA staff has more impact on strengthening ANE's
management and technical capacity.

89.     Social Issues: Setting up of a dedicated Social Unit within a Road Agency has been found
effective to address social issues in road project such as HIV/AID prevention, poverty reduction, and
gender equality. It is important that the activities of Social Unit are well coordinated with other units of
the Road Agency so that the social issues are taken into account right from the concept to implementation
stage. The staff of the Social Unit should be encouraged to work closely with the road design consultants
for carrying out baseline studies, and with the contractors for the implementation of HIV/AID prevention
programs. In addition, the Social Unit should carry out post-project work in generating knowledge from
implemented projects and interventions to assess the short and long term social impacts of the project.

90.        Donor Collaboration: For the road sector programs aimed at using the sector wide approach
with the concept of pooled funding, it is important to reach a consensus with other DPs on the
implementation arrangements particularly on fiduciary aspects such as procurement and financial
management. Considering that the DPs have their own procurement procedures and financing
mechanisms, it becomes important for the Client to take lead at the project design stage in setting out the
detailed implementation arrangements to ensure harmonization of the related procedures.

91.     Monitoring and Assessment Framework: To design only the performance indicators for project
monitoring at the sector level and project level are not enough unless a comprehensive monitoring and
assessment framework has been designed and agreed with all stakeholders at the project design stage. The
monitoring and assessment framework should include a time based action plan to carry out baseline
studies, if needed, a well coordinated mechanism for data collection, and the agency staff with clear role
and responsibilities for evaluation and reporting of the project performance biannually.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

92.     Comments received from the implementing agency have been incorporated in the report. The
Borrower's contribution is attached unedited in Annex 5.

(b) Cofinanciers

93.     Comments received from the co-financiers (European Commission) are attached unedited in
Annex 6.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

94.     No comments were received from NGOs, private sector, and civil society.




                                                     22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in equivalent US$ million)

             Components             Appraisal Estimate       Actual         Percentage of
                                                                             Appraisal
Roads and bridges works                   117.8               161.0            136%
Policy reform and institutional
strengthening                              15.1               18.0             171%

Strategy formulation and preparatory
activities, Phase 2                          6.1                8.0             16%


Total Baseline Cost                       138.9               187.0            135%

Physical contingencies                       6.9                0                0

Price contingencies                        16.2                 0                0
Total project costs                       162.0               187.0            115%
Project preparation fund                     0                  0                0
Front-end fee IBRD                           0                  0                0
Total Financing Required                  162.0               187.0            115%



IDA funding increased due to devaluation of US Dollar in exchange of SDR

(b) Financing (in equivalent US$ million)

                                                       Appraisal   Actual or

             Source of Funds              Type of                    Latest   Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing    Estimate     Estimate    Appraisal

Borrower Counterpart funding                             13.5         65.4        484%
Borrower Road user charges                               197.8        242.6       122%
IDA                                    Credit            162.0        187.0       115%
Other Development Partners                               311.8        294.6        95%
To be Financed                                           18.5         0.00         0%
Total                                                    703.6        789.6       112%




                                               23

     Annex 2. Outputs by Components

                                                         Table A


Component                    Main Activities given in                  Percent
                             Credit Agreement                          Achieved Comments on Achievement

Component A:                 1. Carrying out periodic maintenance        56%    295 km of periodic maintenance
                             (PM) on 525 km of the Estrada                      (PM) completed on the N1. Due
Roads and Bridges.           Nacional No. l (or the EN1 - now N1) in            to late project start PM
Activities related to civil  the provinces of Maputo, Gaza,                     decreased and Rehabilitation
works, design and            Inhambane, Sofala and Manica;                      increased.
supervision.                 2. Carrying out rehabilitation of 313 km    145%   456 km of rehabilitation
                             of EN1 primary roads in the provinces              completed on the N1. Due to
                             of Maputo and Inhambane;                           late project start PM decreased
                                                                                and Rehabilitation increased.
                             3. Carrying out rehabilitation of 412 km    18%    76 km of rural road
                             of rural roads in the Borrower's                   rehabilitation completed in
                             provinces of Gaza, Nampula and Tete.               Nampula province. Budget
                                                                                limitations prevented further
                                                                                works from being implemented.
                             4. Carrying out emergency repairs,          100%   Emergency repair works funded
                             design, tender documents and                       under APL1 were carried out in
                             supervision of works of roads and                  Nampula, Zambezia and
                             bridges due to floods or other natural             Inhambane Provinces.
                             disasters;
                             5. Carrying out civil works and             60%    Traffic signs and road markings
                             installation of traffic signs to improve           installed as part of civil works
                             road safety;                                       contracts.
                             6. Carrying out design, tender              100%   Designs and tender
                             documents and supervision of works                 documentation have been
                             activities for the road sector.                    prepared and supervision carried
                                                                                out for works in items A1, A2
                                                                                and A3 above.
Component B:                 1. Establishment of an institutional        100%   Road Fund established as a
Institutional Strengthening  framework for the Government's road                separate entity in May 2003.
and Policy Reforms.          sector;
Activities aimed at          2. Capacity building of ANE and Road        65%    Training and technical
institution-building and     Fund for management, technical and                 assistance activities were
safeguards.                  financial auditing, procurement,                   undertaken but have yet left
                             disbursement, accounting, financial                sustainable capacity in ANE.
                             management and project management;                 Delays have occurred in
                                                                                carrying out institutional studies.
                             3. Establishment of a financial             116%   Fuel levy income between 2002-
                             management framework for ANE and                   2005 to fund road maintenance
                             the Road Fund;                                     has exceeded planned values by
                                                                                30m USD.
                             4. Carrying out of the identification and   76%    Road safety strategy has been
                             implementation of road safety measures;            prepared. System for the issue of
                                                                                card-type secure driving licenses
                                                                                has been installed.




                                                             24

Component    Main Activities given in                 Percent
             Credit Agreement                         Achieved Comments on Achievement

             5. Strengthening of ANE's social unit      95%    Monitoring visits made to
             responsible for addressing HIV/ AIDS              supervise implementation of the
             prevention measures, social and labor             HIV/AIDS program on road
             impact of road activities;                        projects.
                                                               Refresher training for peer
                                                               educators on HIV/AIDS matters
                                                               has been held, with voluntary
                                                               and counseling, testing and
                                                               acquisitions of condoms.
                                                               Nutritional support and care has
                                                               been given to infected workers
                                                               and their families.
                                                               Workshop on social issues held
                                                               for ANE provincial Delegates,
                                                               covering the social
                                                               specifications included in
                                                               contracts.
                                                               Socioeconomic studies on the
                                                               N1 and Rural Roads were
                                                               produced for ANE.
             6. Capacity building for carrying out      75%    ANE's environmental staff have
             training programs for environmental               received Technical Assistance
             assessment, management and monitoring             on running training programs on
             of MMEMAP;                                        environmental assessment for
                                                               ANE staff and first phase of
                                                               environmental training has been
                                                               delivered to ANE staff,
                                                               consultants and related
                                                               institutions on the management
                                                               and monitoring of MMEMAP.
                                                               Environmental management and
                                                               monitoring of Projects has been
                                                               implemented.
             7. Raising awareness of communities        90%    Awareness of project planning
             about the environmental issues regarding          and implementation has been
             the Project including the publication of          raised through public
             overviews regarding project operations;           consultation and information
                                                               dissemination. Liaison with
                                                               local authorities and
                                                               communities helped in the
                                                               exchange of information and
                                                               overviews.
             8. Raising road user awareness,            80%    Implementation of the program
             including consultation of road users              has featured strongly in the
             regarding road maintenance, road sector           printed and electronic media.
             strategy, and needs of adjustment of the          Wide ranging consultations
             road user fees by carrying out                    were carried out during the
             communication campaigns including                 updating of the road sector
             workshops.                                        strategy.




                                          25

Component                 Main Activities given in                 Percent
                          Credit Agreement                         Achieved Comments on Achievement

Component C:              1. Carrying out revisions and updating     100%   Completed. An integrated
                          of the Borrower's integrated road sector          program for the sector has been
Strategy and Preparatory  strategy to incorporate priorities                developed based on extensive
Activities for Further    identified during stakeholders                    stakeholder feedback.
Investments               consultations;
                          2. Carrying out environmental, socio-      100%   Environmental and impact
                          economic and social impact assessment             assessment studies for future
                          of roads works for further investments;           projects completed.
                                                                            Resettlement Policy Framework
                                                                            for 3 sections of the N1 were
                                                                            produced and the resulting
                                                                            Resettlement Action Plan is now
                                                                            under implementation.
                          3. Preparation of engineering designs      95%    Completed. Final approval of
                          and tender documents for the                      bidding documents awaited
                          construction and rehabilitation of roads          before inviting short-listed firms
                          for further investments.                          to bid.




                                                         26

                                                     Table B

  A Comparison of Performance Indicators Planed in March 2001 and Achieved in December 2006.


Indicator                         Unit             Baseline
                                                   2001           2002       2003        2004           2005     2006


                                                     Road Condition

Roads in Good       Planned       Km                  6,000        7,250       8,500      10,500         11,500  12,000

Condition           Achieved      Km                               7,000       6,615       7,332          7,919   8900
                    %                                               96%       77.8%       69.8%          68.8%    74%

Roads in Fair       Planned       Km                  7,500        6,750       5,500       4,000          3,500   3,000

Condition           Achieved      Km                               6,500       4,253       4,888         10,452   8,452
                    %                                              96.2%      77.3%        122%           298%   281%1
                                                        Road Fund
Avg. Road           Planned       Eq. US Cents            7.5           9         9.5        10.5          11.3    11.8
maintenance         Achieved      Eq. US Cents                        5.9         8.4        11.0          12.2    10.4
user fee            %                                               65%       88.4%      104.7%         108.0%   88.1%
Revenues from       Planned       Eq.                  28.72          37           41          46           51      55
Road                              US$ million
Maintenance         Achieved      Eq. US$                             35         34.4        55.9          60.6    56.7
user fee                          Million
(rounded)           %                                               94%       83.9%      121.5%         118.8%  103.1%
Counterpart         Planned       Eq.                                 3.4         3.4         3.4           3.4    3.43
Revenues (from                    US$ million
Investment          Achieved      Eq. US$                             3.3         3.1            0         28.1    30.9
Budget)                           Million
(rounded)           %                                               97%      91.17%           0%        826.4%  908.8%
Total               Planned       Eq.                     35          40           45          50           55      60
Government                        US$ million
allocation to       Achieved      Eq. US$                           38.3         37.5        55.9          88.7    87.6
Road Fund                         Million
(rounded)           %                                              95.7%        83%      111.8%         161.2%   146%



 1 This means that in 2006 about 17,352 kilometers were in good and fair condition as compared to 13,500
 kilometers in 2001. So, some of the roads in poor condition have been upgraded to good and fair condition. Much
 more roads were in fair condition in 2006 than planned which could also mean that some of the roads that were
 previously in good condition have degraded to fair condition

 2Amounts that should be transferred by MoF to the RF according to user maintenance levies and estimated
 consumption levels for 2001

 3 See paragraph 50(c)




                                                          27

                                           Kilometers of road works executed
                    Planned                                                                                          14,000
Routine                           Km                 10,0004        12,000    12,500       13,500       14,000

maintenance         Achieved      Km                                12,250    11,355       13,578       11,949       13,100
                    %                                               102%       90.8%       100.5%       85.4%        68.6%
                    Planned
Periodic                          Km                  1,1005        1,350       1,800        1,900        1,900        1900

maintenance         Achieved      Km                                  948         427        1,433        1,708        1788
                    %                                               70.2%       23%         75.4%       89.8%        94.1%
                                    Expenditures on Road Works in Equivalent US$

Routine             Planned       US$ m                      9         11          12           12            13          14

maintenance         Achieved      US$ m                              13.5        13.1         12.3         21.6         26.5
                    %                                              122.7%      109%          102.5       166%     189.28%

Periodic            Planned        US$ m                   35          43          55           57            55          56

maintenance         Achieved       US$ m                                7        12.3         58.4         20.0        16.96
                    %                                               16.2%      22.3%       102.4%          36%     30.18%




· Separation of the Road         · Decree creating the
                                                                 Planned          December 2002
    Fund from ANE                    Road Fund as a legal

    completed.                       entity passed
                                                                 Achieved         Decree dated May 28, 2003
                                 · National Road Board           Planned          June 2003

                                                                 Achieved         Renamed Inter-Ministerial Road

· Roads Boards                                                                    Commission and created May 2003
                                                                 Planned          June 2003
    Operational                  · ANE Board
                                                                 Achieved         December 2003
                                 · Road Fund Board               Planned          June 2003
                                                                 Achieved         December 2003
· Improvements in                Percent of jobs completed:                       Consult-       Civil
    procurement and                                                                                      By mid-term
                                 By mid-term review                                 ancies      works
    delivery of works and                                                                                review (April
    services                     On time                         Planned             85%         80%     2005) Engineering
                                                                                                         design on N1 took
                                                                 Achieved            27%         29%     double the time
                                                                                                         that was initially
                                 Within budget                   Planned             80%         75%     planned and civil
                                                                                                         works contract
                                                                 Achieved            90%         50%     were more costly
                                 To specifications               Planned             80%         80%     than planned in
                                                                                                         PIP. There was an
                                                                 Achieved            90%         90%     average 3-4
                                                                                                         months delay in
                                 Without payment delays          Planned            100%        100%



4Estimate of routine maintenance planned for 2001

5Estimate of periodic maintenance planned for 2001

6 This reflects that some of the donor funded projects , including IDA funded projects, have become rehabilitation
rather than periodic maintenance due to delays in implementation




                                                          28

                                                                                               total payment
                                                           Achieved          0%         0%

                               Percent of jobs completed:                 Consult-     Civil
                               December 2004                               ancies     works

                               On time                     Planned          95%        90%     As the project
                                                           Achieved       No data     No data  completion (June
                                                                                               2007) ANE was
                               Within budget               Planned          90%        85%     under
                                                           Achieved       No data     No data  restructuring and
                                                                                               due to lack of
                               To specifications           Planned          90%        90%     institutional

                                                           Achieved       No data     No data  capacity no data
                                                                                               was collected
                               Without payment delays      Planned         100%        100%

                                                           Achieved         40%        20%
                                                           · Planned      System designed
· Design and implement         · System designed by        · Achieved     No progress
    contractor and               31/03/02
    consultant performance     · 100% of procurement       · Planned      System designed
    rating system                  activities monitored by
                                   system by 31/12/04      · Achieved     No progress




                           Table C: Performance Indicators on Road Safety


Indicators                          2000         2001      2002     2003      2004        Total change in %

 Number of crashes                 5,967         6,980     7,541   7,823     8,577              43.7%

 Fatalities                         906           910      1,123   1,133     1,323              46.0%

 Seriously injured                 2,738         3,180     3,212   3,287     3,484              27.2%

 Injured                           2,323         2,890     3,206   3,403     3,770              62.3%

 Fatalities per 10.000 vehicles    69.58         65.24     72.92   68.84     71.36              2.6%

 Number of vehicles               130,205       139,485   154,000  164,575  185,392             42.4%



Source: Instituto Nacional de Viação (National Traffic Institute)




                                                       29

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)


Economic Analysis at Project Completion

At the time of appraisal in 2001, the APL-1 projects were the subject of an economic analysis by
the ANE to confirm the viability of the program as a whole and of each of its components.
During the detailed design process after appraisal, further analyses were undertaken. A post
implementation economic appraisal of the APL-1 projects has involved new analyses based on
actual project investment costs, updated traffic estimates, and road user costs. The economic
analysis of the completed projects was carried out using the Bank's Road Economic Decision
Model (RED). The main advantages of the RED model are its flexibility, speed of use, and
capacity for dealing with information uncertainty (which is much greater than that possessed by
Highway Development and Management Model 4). The results of this analysis are presented in
table A3.1.


A3.1 Assumptions

The forecast's annual percentage growth rates used in the economic appraisal are as follows:

              Period             Light               Heavy             Weighted
                                 Vehicles            Vehicles          Average
              2007-2011          6.5                 5.5               6.1
              2012-2016          6.5                 5.5               6.1
              2017-2021          6.0                 5.0               5.6
              2021 -             6.0                 5.0               5.6


The operation of the RED model requires estimates to be made of average annual road
maintenance costs and surface roughness, with and without the improvement project. Unit
maintenance costs have been taken from the rates used in the Road Sector Strategy Study of
2005 and are summarized as follows: The intervention frequencies, based on those set out in the
Road Sector Strategy Study, follow: The basic input data used for the RED (HDM 4) Vehicle
Operating Cost model are as follows:

 Paved road routine maintenance                       US$ 1,100 / km / year
 Paved road routine maintenance                       US$ 55,000 / km
 Paved road rehabilitation                            US$ 300,000 / km

 Gravel road routine maintenance                      US$ 1,500 / km / year
 Gravel road periodic maintenance                     US$ 35,000 / km
 Gravel road rehabilitation                           US$ 80,000 /km

The intervention frequencies, based on those set out in the RSSS, are:

 Routine maintenance                                  Annual
 Paved road periodic maintenance                      Every 8 years


                                                   30

Paved road rehabilitation                         Every 20 years
Unpaved road periodic maintenance                 Every 5 years
Unpaved road rehabilitation                       Every 15 years

The basic input data used for the RED (HDM 4) Vehicle Operating Cost model are as follows:

Country / Region                   Mozambique
Year                               2006




Currency Name                              US$
Exchange Rate Divider to US$               1

Road Characteristics
Altitude                                   250
Percent Time Driven on Water               0
Percent Time Driven on Snow                0
Paved Roads Texture Depth (mm)             0.69




Terrain Types
Code             Description       Rise  &  Fall Horizontal         Number       of Super-
                                   (m/km)         Curvature         Rises & Falls elevation (%)
                                                  (deg/km)          (#)
A                Flat              10             50                1                 2
B                Rolling           20             150               1                 2
C                Mountainous       40             300               1                 2


Road Types
                          Surface Type                                Speed
                          1-Bituminous   Carriageway    Speed         Limit            Roadside NMT
                          2-Concrete     Width          Limit         Enforcement      Friction Friction
Code        Description 3-Unsealed       (m)            (km/hour)     (#)              (#)      (#)
X           Paved         1              6.5            100           1.1              1        1
Y           Gravel        3              6.0            80            1.1              1        1
Z           Earth         3              5.0            70            1.1              1        1


Vehicle Types
                                                  Number         of Number          of
Code                       Description            Wheels              Axles
1                          Car Medium             4                   2
2                          Goods Vehicle          4                   2
3                          Bus Light              4                   2
4                          Bus Medium             6                   2
5                          Not used               #N/A                #N/A
6                          Not used               #N/A                #N/A


                                                31

          7                    Truck Medium           6              2
          8                    Truck Heavy            10             3
          9                    Truck Articulated      22             6


Vehicle Fleet Characteristics
                       Car     Goods   Bus      Bus     Not     Not Used Truck   Truck   Truck
                       Medium Vehicle Light     Medium Used              Medium  Heavy   Articulated
Economic Unit Costs
New Vehicle Cost 23,682        22,500  29,524 35,000    Not used Not used 61,208 105,995 126,449
($/vehicle)
Fuel Cost ($/liter for 0.61    0.51    0.51     0.51    Not used Not used 0.51   0.51    0.51
MT, $/MJ for NMT)
Lubricant        Cost 2.71     2.71    2.71     2.71    Not used Not used 2.71   2.71    2.71
($/tire)
New      Tire    Cost 46       63      63       120     Not used Not used 123    233     233
($/tire)
Maintenance     labor 4.13     4.13    4.13     4.13    Not used Not used 4.13   4.13    4.13
Cost ($/hour)
Crew Cost ($/hour)      0.66   1.55    2.42     2.77    Not used Not used 2.79   3.38    3.38
Interest Rate (%)       12     12      12       12      Not used Not used 12     12      12

Utilization       and
Loading
Kilometers     Driven 20,000   25,000  40,000 45,000    Not used Not used 40,000 50,000  60,000
per Year (km)
Hours    Driven   per 400      600     1,100    1,250   Not used Not used 1,000  1,500   1,500
year (hr)
Service Life (years)    8      10      10       12      Not used Not used 12     12      12
Percent of Time for 100        0       0        0       Not used Not used 0      0       0
Private use (%)
Gross         Vehicle 2        3       3        11      Not used Not used 9      13      35
Weight (tons)




                                                     32

          A3.2 Results

          Table A3.1 Summary of Pre- and Post-Project Economic Analyses for APL-1
                                      7




                                               2001 Appraisal                                         2007 Actual
                              Length       Financial     EIRR       NPV (US$ Length Financial               EIRR         NPV (US$
Road Link                     (km)         Cost (US$ (%)            million)        (km)       Cost (US$ (%)             million)
                                           million)                                            million)
Maputo-Marracuene8               29.7          8.2           64          98          23.1        19.4            31          27
Marracuene-Manhica               48.0          5.8           15           2          47.4         9.2            68          52
Manhica-Incoluane9               51.0         12.8           16           5          36.0        10.0            18           8
Incoluane-Zandamela             159.0         10.3           21          11          71.1        20.5            35          38
Zandamela-Maxixe10              173.0         11.0           17           6          176.0       41.2            17          13
Maxixe-Nhachengue11             123.0         20.3           32          41          70.0        36.7            22          25
Nhachengue-Pambara              109.0         13.1           14           1          98.0        28.2            14           4
Muxungue-Inchope                145.0         10.8           14           1          154.0       40.3            8            8
Nametil-Angoche                  76.0          4.9           43           9          85.6         9.8            18           4
Total Project                   913.7         97.4           23          174         761.2       215.4           22          163


          All the projects were by definition economically feasible in 2001, with an overall NPV of US$174 million
          and a weighted average EIRR of 22.5 percent, as compared with the overall NPV of US$163 and an EIRR
          of 22 percent in this reanalysis. In the post-implementation analysis, only one of the projects, Muxungue-
          Inchope, fails to generate an EIRR of 12 percent. Sensitivity and risk analyses were carried out as part of
          the post-implementation evaluation. A rigorous sensitivity analysis suggests that all projects (with the
          exception of Muxungue-Inchope) remain economically feasible even in scenarios with significant
          reductions in road user cost savings, traffic, and road surface roughness in the "without project" situation.
          A risk analysis of the projects shows that there is a less than 12 percent probability of seven of the
          projects having EIRRs of less than 12 percent. For the most marginal project (Nhachengue-Pambara) this
          probability is 33 percent. It is apparent from the results that there is a very low probability that the APL-1
          package of projects as a whole will not remain economically justified.




          8 Execution of Maputo (Jardim) ­ Maputo (Benfica) section postponed for inclusion in APL2.
          9 Reduced in scope to Manhica ­ 3 de Fevereiro.
          10 Reduced in scope to Chissibuca ­ Maxixe, with the Xai Xai ­ Chissibuca section postponed for inclusion in APL2.
          11 Reduced in scope to Maxixe-Massinga, with Massinga-Nhachengue section postponed for inclusion in APL2.


                                                                33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members

            Name                            Title                   Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Antonio L. Chamuco        Procurement Specialist                   AFTPC
Nina Chee                 Sr. Environmental Specialist             AFTS3
Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes
Chembeze                  Transport Specialist                     AFTTR

Jocelyne O. Do Sacramento Operations Analyst                       AFTTR
Olav E. Ellevset          Sr. Transport Specialist                 AFTTR
Abdelmoula M. Ghzala      Sr. Infrastructure Specialist            AFTTR
Jonas Per Hermanson       Transport Specialist                     AFTTR
England Rogasian Maasamba Program Assistant                        AFCE1
Tesfamichael Nahusenay
Mitiku                    Program Manager                          AFTTR

Joseph Kizito Mubiru      Sr. Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Brighton Musungwa         Sr. Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham    Sector Manager                           AFTTR
Dieter E. Schelling       Lead Transport Specialist                AFTTR
Subhash C. Seth           Consultant                               AFTTR
Kavita Sethi              Sr. Transport Economist                  AFTTR
Anthony Martin Hegarty    Chief Financial Management Officer       OPCFM
Philippe de Naurois       Consultant                               AFTTR
Ntombie Z. Siwale         Senior Program Assistant                 AFTTR
Adelia N. Chebeia Suurna  Program Assistant                        CAFS5
Joao Tinga                Financial Management Analyst             AFTFM
Desta Wolde Woldeargey    Temporary                                AFTTR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of project cycle
                                      Number of staff weeks         US$ thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                         14                           135.84
  FY01                                         18                           218.75
  FY02                                          3                             27.88
Sub-total                                      35                           382.47

Supervision/ICR



                                             34

 FY02          8     61.62
 FY03         18     95.08
 FY04         21    133.48
 FY05         15     88.85
 FY06         31    171.29
 FY07         34      0.00
Sub-total    127    556.32
Total        162    938.79




             35

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

INTRODUCTION

The Republic of Mozambique occupies some 3,000 km of the coastline of East Africa between the
Republics of South Africa and Tanzania. The geography and history of Mozambique have dictated that its
transport infrastructure has been constructed to serve the landlocked countries lying on the western
borders rather than the needs of the country itself.

Improvements to road transportation are included within the Government of Mozambique's poverty
reduction programme (PARPA) as they help generate growth and reduce poverty by lowering
transportation costs and stimulating development of markets. Good roads are important for the
development of agriculture, and improve access to social services. Road improvements bring about
national integration and social equity by helping to integrate the poor and other vulnerable groups into the
society. They also place the country in a critical strategic role as the transport provider for neighbouring
landlocked countries, while opening external markets for trade.

Government expenditure together with World Bank and other development partner assistance in the
sector have led to major improvements in the condition of Mozambique's road network since 1992. Under
the First and Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects (ROCS1 and ROCS2, approved in 1992 and
1994 respectively), over 3,800 kilometers of roads were rehabilitated and about 14,000 kilometers of
roads benefited from routine maintenance annually. In addition to significant growth in traffic and the
integration of formerly isolated rural areas into the national economy, the two ROCS projects have also
brought about significant progress in institutional strengthening and capacity building in the sector. A
Road Fund was created and in 1999 the government transformed DNEP into ANE, a public agency
separate from the civil service, with dual responsibility for technical/operational matters and for road
financing (the Road Fund), under a board of directors with representatives from the public and the private
sectors.

The Mozambique Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Programme (Roads III) is a ten-year
programme to be implemented in three phases. The Government of Mozambique, IDA and other
development partners contribute to each phase.

The ten-year Programme requires financing of US$1,700 million, of which approximately 25% has been
planned to be provided through IDA Adjustable Programme Loan (APL) Credits. The Road Fund will
need to contribute approximately US$600 million towards routine and periodic maintenance of the road
network. The remainder of the programme is financed by the GOM's investment budget and development
partners.

The first phase of the Programme (the Project) consisted of four Project components to be implemented
over four years. The Programme required US$703.6 million of financing, of which US$162.0 million was
provided through an APL IDA credit (APL1). The Road Fund's contribution was to be US$197.8 million.
Government financing of US$13.5 million and other development partners with US$330.3 million
completed the financial plan.

This Annex of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is based on the Project Appraisal Document,
project files, progress reports, mid-term review and discussions with the various stakeholders and
implementing agents, including representatives of Provincial and District Governments and Municipal
Councils.




                                                     36

This report is the Borrower's contribution to the final ICR to be produced by the Bank. The report focuses
on project activities financed under the Phase 1 IDA credit (APL-1).


ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AT BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT

     Original Objectives

The specific APL-l project objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were to:

          (a)    improve the coverage and condition of roads and bridges;
          (b)    strengthen the country's capacity to manage and administer the road sector effectively and
transparently, with efficient and sustainable institutional arrangements;
          (c)    establish financing mechanisms to ensure sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of
funds for roads maintenance, affordable at the macroeconomic level and for the road users; and
          (d)    improve road transport safety.

The overall purpose of the program was to stimulate economic growth and contribute to poverty reduction
through improved road infrastructure, better sector policies, and enhanced roads sector management.

Secondary objectives are to help prevent the spread of AIDS and encourage employment of women in the
roads sector.

     Revised Project Objectives

The project objectives remained unchanged during implementation of the first phase, although the
detailed content of the project was altered as discussed in more detail below. The ten year long Roads III
programme includes provision for reviewing and adjusting the strategy and objectives as the programme
advances from one phase to the next. This process has been followed in preparing the second phase of the
programme, and has resulted in adjustments in direction rather than any major changes of objective.


ORIGINAL PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project components as set out in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were as follows:

Component A:        Roads and Bridges

Activities related to civil works, design and supervision:

          1.     Carrying out periodic maintenance on 525 km of the Estrada Nacional No. l (or the EN1)
in the provinces of Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane, Sofala and Manica;
          2.     Carrying out rehabilitation of 313 km of EN1 primary roads in the provinces of Maputo
and Inhambane;
          3.     Carrying out rehabilitation of 412 km of rural roads in the Borrower's provinces of Gaza,
Nampula and Tete.
          4.     Carrying out emergency repairs, design, tender documents and supervision of works of
roads and bridges due to floods or other natural disasters;
          5.     Carrying out civil works and installation of traffic signs to improve road safety;
          6.     Carrying out design, tender documents and supervision of works activities for the road
sector.




                                                      37

Component B:        Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms

Activities aimed at institution-building and safeguards:
          1.     Establishment of an institutional framework for the Government's road sector;
          2.     Capacity building of ANE and Road Fund for management, technical and financial
auditing, procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial management and project management;
          3.     Establishment of a financial management framework for ANE and the Road Fund;
          4.     Carrying out of the identification and implementation of road safety measures;
          5.     Strengthening of ANE's social unit responsible for addressing HIV/ AIDS prevention
measures, social and labour impact of road activities;
          6.     Capacity building for carrying out training programs for environmental assessment,
management and monitoring of MMEMAP;
          7.     Raising awareness of communities about the environmental issues regarding the Project
including the publication of overviews regarding project operations;
          8.     Raising road user awareness, including consultation of road users regarding road
maintenance, road sector strategy, and needs of adjustment of the road user fees by carrying out
communication campaigns including workshops.

Component C:        Strategy and Preparatory Activities for Further Investments

          1.     Carrying out revisions and updating of the Borrower's integrated road sector strategy to
incorporate priorities identified during stakeholders consultations;
          2.     Carrying out environmental, socio-economic and social impact assessment of roads
works for further investments;
          3.     Preparation of engineering designs and tender documents for the construction and
rehabilitation of roads for further investments.

    Revised Project Components

    Component A - Roads and Bridges

Some significant changes were made to Component A of the project, primarily due to insufficient funds
being available in the credit to meet the as-bid project costs. In Component A.1 (Periodic Maintenance
Works) one section of road was omitted from the planned works due to budget limitations. The length of
periodic maintenance carried out was 448 km compared with 525 km planned in the DCA. In
Component A.2 (Rehabilitation Works) three sections of road were omitted due to the need to save costs,
avoid disruption, and in one case to allow the required resettlement action plan to be prepared. The
completion of one road that had been financed under the previous credit, ROCS 2, was added to
Component 2, resulting in 259 km as opposed to the planned 314 km being implemented.

The deterioration in road condition between the time of appraisal and launch of tenders meant that the
definition of the scope of works for one road, the EN1 from Muxungue to Inchope, had to be changed
from periodic maintenance to rehabilitation.

Substantial increases in contract prices compared with the DCA budget values for projects in
Components A.1 and A.2 led to the decision to reduce the number of rural road projects in
Component A.3 from 5 to 1 due to an insufficiency of funds in the credit. This resulted in a decrease in
length of rural roads rehabilitated under Component A3 from 412 to 76 km and was the most significant
change made to Component A.




                                                     38

     Component B - Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms

No major changes were made to this component of the original project. In relation to the road safety sub-
component, Government chose to review the priorities as defined in the PAD, giving priority to the
introduction of secure driving licences whilst opting to outsource vehicle inspection centres completely at
a later date.

     Component C - Strategy and Preparatory Activities for Further Investments

This component of the project expanded significantly. In addition to updating the road sector strategy,
safeguard studies and design reviews, Government prepared an integrated road sector programme
defining funding requirements for all activities in the road sector from whether financed by Government
or development partners. Other aspects of this component remained unchanged from the original project.


ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

The relatively high levels of economic growth in Mozambique witnessed at the time of appraisal have
continued during the course of the project, with the growth in average annual GDP exceeding 7%. This
level of growth is reflected in increased volumes of traffic on the improved roads.

Since the design of the project the Government has developed its second poverty reduction plan
(PARPA II) which includes the reduction of poverty by focussing on public services for the most needy
through the rehabilitation and maintenance of the national road network, and prioritises sound financial
management. The objectives of the project remain relevant and form part of the Government's programme
for the sector, and can therefore be considered to have been correctly formulated.


ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

     Overall Assessment

The project has contributed to the stimulation of economic growth by improving the condition of heavily
trafficked and strategically important sections of road. A sector wide approach has been adopted for road
sector planning, being the logical development of the philosophy used to prepare Phase 1 of the project.
The establishment of a separate Road Fund has improved sector management by the definition of a
dedicated system for financing road maintenance.

     Improve the Coverage and Condition of Roads and Bridges

Major improvements in surface conditions along the N1 have resulted from the project, although the total
length of N1 road improved fell short of that which was planned. Innovative 'targeted intervention'
techniques have been developed and adopted for the rehabilitation of the one rural road that was
rehabilitated, and they offer the possibility of a more cost effective solution for the country's remaining
secondary and tertiary roads that require improvement.

The improvement in condition of the N1 was viewed as positive by communities, bringing major benefits
in terms of time savings, easier journeys and reduced damage to vehicles. Examples were given of cases
where the improved road allowed business or social journeys to be made in a single day that would
previously have taken two days. In some cases reduced transport costs were reported and it was noted that
improved road conditions had allowed fares to be held at existing levels despite rises in fuel costs. The
employment opportunities created for local people during construction were welcomed.




                                                     39

     Strengthen the Country's Capacity to Manage and Administer the Sector

Two independent bodies, a Road Administration and Road Fund with their respective boards, were
established in 2003, which was one year sooner than had been planned at appraisal. The creation of these
agencies has still to deliver the full benefits expected of them in terms of improvements in road quality
and efficiency of implementation.

Towards the end of the project (October 2005) it was decided to transfer responsibilities for the
management of maintenance and the tertiary and vicinal road networks from the Provincial Directorates
of Public Works and Housing to ANE's Provincial Delegations. The resulting movements of personnel
have been completed and the recruitment of senior managerial staff for the Delegations is underway.

The Inter-Ministerial Road commission has not operated in the form described in the implementing
legislation for the road sector, its place being taken by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing's
regular Consultative Council meetings.

     Establish Financing Mechanisms to Ensure Sufficient Funds for Road Maintenance

Legislation was passed in 2003 that established the level of income from fuel levies to the Road Fund for
road maintenance, and the mechanism by which these funds are transferred to the Fund. Over the initially-
planned 4 year duration of the project, Road Fund income was 6% (US$11m) higher than foreseen in the
PAD. The costs estimated at appraisal for road maintenance failed to take into account the full impact of
the adoption of competitive tendering for all maintenance contracts. As a result, costs have risen
significantly in comparison with pre-project costs of maintenance works. This has been taken into account
in the planning of Phase 2.

The Road Fund is investigating additional sources of funds for the network such as concessioning routine
maintenance works and upgrading projects, increasing fuel levies and commissioning a road user charges
study.

     Improve Road Transport Safety

The PAD had established Phase 1 as one of institutional reform and preparation, with road safety
activities being implemented in Phases 2 and 3.

Measures to improve to road safety implemented during the project have focussed on improvements to
road signs, road markings, reflectors and pedestrian crossings under the rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance programmes, the installation of a system for the production of secure, international standard,
driving licences and the preparation a road safety strategy which is now in the final stages of approval by
Government. Over the period of the project, INAV in conjunction with the traffic police have
significantly increased enforcement of drink-driving and speeding legislation. The impact of these
measures on accidents statistics is expected from mid-2008. Capacity within INAV has increased as a
result of their participation in the project.

Significant increases in accidents, both in number and seriousness, were reported along much of the N1,
in particular at locations with high pedestrian movements. Safety measures such as additional rumble
strips and increased speed limit enforcement are required.




                                                     40

MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

    Factors outside the control of Government or the implementing agency:

· The rise in the price of oil resulted in major increases in diesel and bitumen costs, which have in turn
  caused claims and increased final contract prices.
· The decision taken by the Bank to allow the credit to be used to pay IVA was a major positive step in
  assisting project implementation.
· The rigid technical definitions of works (rehabilitation and periodic maintenance) used in preparation
  did not match the real requirements on site when contracts started and led to additional works and
  increased costs.
· Poor performance by some consultants and works contractors has had a negative impact on the cost
  and quality of the finished works.

    Factors generally subject to government control:

· Delay in Project Effectiveness. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for APL-1 and the Project
  Agreement between the IDA and the GOM were signed in September 2001 but only became effective
  in early June 2002 as a result of doubts over the need for a subsidiary agreement between ANE and the
  Ministry of Finance.
· The time taken between the issue of bid award notices and the final approval of contracts by the
  Ministry of Finance and CREE has resulted in delays in payments to suppliers. There are delays in the
  final approval of contracts by the Tribunal Administrativo. As a result of experience of the approval
  process involving MOPH and MF during implementation of APL-1, Government has agreed to a
  greater degree of delegation of powers in the future.
· The issue of reimbursement of IVA to contractors was not resolved. Commitments to pay the
  Government's share of contract payments have not always been allocated in the budget.
· The implementation of the institutional aspects of road safety activities was delayed.
· The Government has identified road projects in addition to those included in the Road Sector Strategy.
  A specific fund needs to be set aside for such `political' projects in order to avoid compromising the
  achievement of maintenance and other planned activities.

    Factors generally subject to control of implementing agency

· A greater degree of overall programme management and coordination would have been beneficial.
  Over-optimistic programmes for the design and construction phases were adopted, and it has proved
  difficult to meet the schedule of programmed activities.
· There were delays in the institutional strengthening aspects of the project such as the management
  review, updating of HNMS and document handling.
· The management and effective use of information needs to be improved.
· There has been a lack of early warning from Resident Engineers and project coordinators to the Road
  Fund of contractual problems that could lead to additional costs.
· There is a need to make more effective use of Technical Assistance. Insufficient counterparts were
  made available under the programme and opportunities to build capacity were lost. ANE staff should
  have taken more responsibility in the various institutional studies and consultancies. Technical
  assistance to the financial unit of ANE was not well managed. Short term technical assistance has been
  found to be more effective than long-term inputs in the areas of finance and the environment.
· The management of consultants needs to be improved, with ANE defining clearly the desired end
  results of a project, namely; cost, level of service and geometric standards. This was demonstrated in




                                                    41

   the case of the rural roads projects, although the process did result in the development of the targeted
   improvement strategy on the one project that was constructed.
· Major efforts need to be made within ANE and the FE to collect the data and information that is
   required by management if plans and objectives are to be accomplished and performance monitored.
· Environmental, social and socio-economic impact studies should be carried out at the design stage of
   new road projects, not during the construction phase, and a follow-up system should be introduced to
   monitor the social and environmental impacts of specific roads.
· Incentives need to be given to reward good performance.

    Costs and Financing

· The project budget was insufficient for the programmed works.
· The project was prepared at a time when the exchange rate between the SDR and the US Dollar was
   SDR 1=US$1.27 (May, 2001). At project closure the exchange rate was SDR 1=US$1.51
   (May, 2007). The value of the credit was SDR 127.4 million or US$162 million at appraisal and
   US$188 million at closure.
· Road Fund income was lower than predicted during the first part of the project. However over the
   entire 4 year duration, total Road Fund income was US$185.9m as compared with the US$175m
   planned at appraisal.
· Cash-flow problems arose in the initial phase of the project due to the small size of the special account
   for IDA funds and the high threshold for direct payments, leading to delays in the payment of
   contractors and consultants. Once the cashflow deficit had arisen, operating rules for the account
   meant that it was difficult to overcome the shortage of funds during the remainder of the project.
· Many of the construction contracts permitted payment in three currencies. When combined with the
   payment of Bank and Government funded components, this resulted in up to six payments per invoice
   being necessary. This increased the potential for errors and complicated the process of monitoring
   costs.


SUSTAINABILITY

The road sector reforms that have been implemented during the project have set in place a system that can
provide sustainability for the management of the sector. They will enable activities to be increasingly
decentralised in the future with greater local involvement in road planning and operations.

The provision of adequate funding for maintenance activities is fundamental for sustainability. Although
the Road Fund is at present able to finance planned maintenance activities, the situation is delicately
balanced and requires regular monitoring.

Reliance on technical assistance has continued until the end of APL-1, and will extend into APL-2.
Increased involvement of ANE staff is needed to overcome this.


BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

    Bank

    Lending

· The development of a roads sector strategy which was used as the basis for programme preparation
   resulted in a soundly justified programme;




                                                     42

· The limitations on initial scope and programme content, and rigid definitions of works types
  established by the Bank were not helpful in producing a coherent programme;
· The format of the project budget, in particular the definition of categories, made it difficult to follow
  for those involved in implementation. The selection of a large number of different components for
  support by the bank resulted in a fragmented programme. The move to an integrated programme
  (PRISE) with a pooled fund is sensible development.
· The special account was of an insufficient size to cope with the required cash-flows during
  implementation of the project;

   Supervision

· Support from the Bank during and between supervision missions has proved helpful in project
  implementation. Advice to staff in ANE's Social and Environmental Unit (UASMA) has been
  particularly useful after effective communication had been established during a mission and site visit
  by Bank specialists.
· Continuity in the core supervision team was maintained for the majority of the project and contributed
  to its effectiveness. The participation of specialists with either specific Bank-related tasks, or particular
  areas of expertise requested by Government is welcomed. It is suggested that the Bank agrees the
  composition of supervision missions with Government prior to arrival. Bank and borrower should
  work to make better use of missions, reducing the input of staff time required.
· The level of communication between the Bank's disbursement staff and ANE was good, allowing
  issues to be resolved promptly, facilitating payments to suppliers. This was assisted by the ability of
  some of the Bank's staff to operate in Portuguese. The usefulness of the online Client Connection
  facility was reduced because of its slow speed and the lack of any breakdown of individual contract
  payments.
· The move to electronic issuing of no-objections brought major benefits to implementation.

   Overall Performance

Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory.

   BORROWER

   Preparation

· Insufficient direct involvement of the borrower's staff in the formulation of the programme, in
  particular the institutional components, led to later delays in implementation.
· The prioritisation of some of the candidate rural roads initially included in the project was
  questionable.
· Major investments have been made under the programme but these have targeted relatively few
  kilometres of road in comparison with the size of the whole network.

   Government Implementation Performance

· Road Fund income has increased to match initial predictions.
· The programme of legislative reform for the sector was implemented as planned.
· A career structure that offers all staff within the road administration system, whether at provincial or
  central levels, a compatible salary structures and opportunities for career development would have
  increased performance.
· The recommendations of the Axle Load Study have not yet been implemented.




                                                     43

     Implementing Agency

· Commitments have been made which will allow the credit to be completely spent although there is
   still some uncertainty on the actual value as final invoices are being prepared.
· Unqualified reports have been received from the financial auditors for each year of the project.
· ANE should have played a stronger role in the overall management of the programme.
· ANE should have taken a firmer line with consultants on the harmonisation of design methods and
   specifications.
· There were significant delays in the procurement process and the payment of suppliers.
· Information on potential claims, extra works and addenda needs to be made available as soon as the
   events arise and acted upon promptly.
· The quality of finished works along the road is variable and more should have been done to ensure
   uniform quality.
· Differences have arisen between actual annual plans and those contained in the PIP, with interventions
   focused on rehabilitation rather than on periodic maintenance.
· The monitoring of environmental, social and HIV/ AIDS aspects of contracts using a combination of
   consultants and ANE Social Unit (UASMA) staff has functioned well and contractors have complied
   with the safeguard measures. The system could be improved by increasing coordination between
   UASMA and the project coordinators and requiring more training for contractors and consultants.

     Overall Borrower Performance

Overall borrower performance may be rated as satisfactory. Many of the objectives of the project have
been achieved. The development of the Integrated Road Sector Programme is an important innovation
that will assist in the borrower's future management of the sector.

The experience gained during the first phase of the programme must be used to good effect in the
implementation of the second phase.


PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTORS AND CONSULTING FIRMS

     Contractors

Contractors for the RBMMP were procured using ICB procedures. Most of the contractors performed
their duties to the satisfaction of the development partner and the borrower. However, the performance of
two of the selected contractors did not meet the standards expected of an international contractor. This led
to a number of problems including delayed completion and major cost escalations on specific projects.
The performance of the design consultants on these same contracts has also been poor, making it difficult
to attribute final responsibility for the resulting claims and protect the financial position of the
Government.

In general relations with contractors have been good, with problems being resolved as they arose.
However there were instances where a lack of knowledge of Mozambican laws and practices resulted in
problems with the labour force.

     Consulting Firms

Most of the consulting firms performed their duties satisfactory. However, significant delays were
experienced in the production of final designs and tender documentation by the majority of International
Consultants. On two contracts, the quality of the design proved to be unsatisfactory and this contributed
to a high degree of delay disruption and cost overruns on these contracts. Most consultants were reluctant



                                                     44

to develop technical solutions tailor-made for local conditions. The quality of contract supervision has not
always been satisfactory.

It has proved difficult to call on consultants' professional indemnity insurance in cases where negligence
has given rise to claims or increased costs. Methods need to be found to hold consultants responsible for
their shortcomings, possibly using design and build methodologies. ANE should have requested changes
to consultants' and Resident Engineer's staff more promptly in cases where performance was
unsatisfactory.

     Suppliers

The performance of suppliers was satisfactory. The majority of suppliers performed to the satisfaction of
the client.


LESSONS LEARNT

Highlighted below are the principal lessons and observations identified by the implementation team
during the course of the project.

     Institutional Issues:

1.         Terms or reference for consultancies, design consultants and technical advisers need revision to
give more involvement to ANE staff and clarify responsibilities. Greater ownership by ANE of the end
results is needed.
2.         A higher degree of team-working is required within ANE, with the efforts of all staff focussed
within the same vision.
3.         Increased emphasis should be given to on-the-job training. Participation in courses should be
linked to the immediate needs of the individual and job. Full advantage must be taken of the knowledge
that individuals have gained during implementation of this project.
4.         Internal capability in the preparation of feasibility studies and development of the road network
needs to be created so that a rolling portfolio of projects is available for presentation to interested
development partners.
5.         The degree of contact and involvement of Provincial and District Governments with ANE
during project preparation and execution should be increased. Contacts have been beneficial when it has
occurred.

     Financial Issues:

1.         Careful consideration must be given to the size of the special account used to transfer funds
between Bank and borrower and the threshold for direct payments to ensure that the required cashflow
can be sustained to avoid interruptions in payments.
2.         The flexibility permitted within the loan framework to adjust project activities, for example in
the case of INAV, has proved to be advantageous in allowing the project to respond to changing
Government priorities.
3.         A single specialist accounting system possibly linked to a spreadsheet, developed with staff
from the financial unit, should have been used for accounting and financial management of the credit.
4.         Provisions for IVA and other Government contributions to projects must made in the annual
budget.
5.         A maximum of two currencies should be permitted in the contract for payments to suppliers.
6.         The situation regarding the deduction of withholding tax from payments to consultants needs to
be resolved.


                                                      45

7.        It is essential that estimated costs used in preparation of the project budget are upper bound
values, and that unallocated funds are retained until the potential for cost increases, for example to cover
the cost of expected claims, becomes clear during implementation.

     Technical Issues

1.        During the design process more attention should be given to the preparation of accurate cost
forecasts for the works. Mechanisms for the estimating and control of costs must be improved, taking into
account the possibilities of fluctuations of tender prices, exchange rates and contractors' bidding
strategies. A policy for dealing with high tender prices should be established in advance of tenders being
received.
2.        The decision to adopt a single cross-section width for the N1 irrespective of traffic level missed
an opportunity to save costs.
3.        Designs should be subject to a technical review before implementation.
4.        Widening of the road on one side only rather than two narrow strips on either side might have
resulted in cost savings and should be considered as an option in the future.
5.        Research into the increased use of local materials should be continued to reduced the need to
haul aggregates long distances.
6.        Select the most effective of the standard details from the present N1 contracts and use them as
ANE standards in future.
7.        Include the rehabilitation or construction of access roads to District Governments, hospitals and
the official residences of Administrators and heads of Administrative Posts in future projects.
8.        The use of a design and construction form of contract should be considered to assist the
selection of viable technical solutions for pavement construction.
9.        The award of contracts to contractors or consultants with a record of poor performance must be
avoided.
10.       When contract lots were prepared, the roads in the worst condition should have been prioritised
for improvement.
11.       More attention needs to be given to the treatment of road safety at potential blackspots, for
example areas of high pedestrian movement where rumble strips must be installed. Local road
realignment should be included in contracts where existing alignments present a safety hazard.
12.       Bridges should be widened to the same width as their approach roads.
13.       Adequate consideration must be given during design and construction to changes in natural
drainage regimes brought about by the works, particularly in urban areas.
14.       The Bank and borrower must share responsibility for preventing and then managing overspends
on contracts by identifying problems early on and taking steps to limit exposure where additional
financing is not available.
15.       ANE and the Road Fund have successful experiences of using monitoring consultants during
implementation of some programmes. Their wider use, and the employment of project management
consultants, should be considered, with the costs being included within programme budgets.
16.       Environmental and HIV/ AIDS specialists subcontracted by the contractors have not always
been effective as ANE is not able to control their work directly.
17.       There is a need for greater coordination between ANE and local authorities during the design
and construction phases of projects. The location of traffic signs at the entrance to populated areas and the
place-names used need to be agreed with local authorities.
18.       Contractors should involve local authorities during the recruitment of labourers from local
communities.




                                                     46

19.       More emphasis needs to be given to road maintenance. The open tendering of works has
introduced contractors who have little practical experience of maintenance, which has made the control
over maintenance activities more difficult than in the past when works were directly awarded. A strategy
based on ANE's past experiences should be developed and adopted. The concessioning out of
maintenance activities to the private sector should be considered.
20.       Budgets for the implementation and monitoring of HIV/AIDS and environmental programmes
should be guaranteed until works contracts are concluded. Local authorities should be involved in the
implementation of HIV/AIDS prevention, environmental and social programmes.
21.       Pollution had been a serious problem on some contracts where the contractor had not taken
appropriate measures to control dust, in particular in built-up areas.
22.    Before commencing the APL-2 contracts, ANE needs to address many of the above issues by
defining responsibilities and procedures to ensure that the problems of the past are not repeated.


Persons Consulted:
Francisco Pereira        Road Fund
Cecelio Grachane         Road Fund
Dr Mataruca              INAV
Nelson Nunes             ANE
Raul Cossa               ANE
Atanásio Mugunhe         ANE
Inácio Sitoe             ANE
Teresa Lopes             ANE
Deolinda Nunes           ANE
Vera Zuca                ANE
Pedro Carvalho           Consultant to ANE
Larry Herman             Consultant to ANE
Teresa Lopes             Consultant to ANE
Alberto José Togarupa Permanent Secretary, Marracuene District Government
Macia Administrative Post
                         Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing, Gaza
                         Xai-Xai Municipal Council
                         Inharrime District Government
Pifane Chongo            Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing, Inhambane
Ernesto Correia          ANE Delegation, Inhambane
                         Maxixe Municipal Council
                         Morrumbene District Government
                         Massinga District Government
                         Mapinhane Administrative Post
                         Muxúngue Administrative Post
                         Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing, Sofala
Inácio Alfinete          ANE Delegation, Sofala




                                                     47

Annex 6: Comments from Co-Financiers and other Partners / Stakeholders

EU comments on draft Implementation Completion Report in respect of their contribution
to the roads program 2001 ­ 2007
APL 1 ICR 2007-09

Item 1.5.1     Component A: Roads and Bridges

(g) Status of EC projects in September 2007:

9 ACP MOZ 14 ­ Zambezi Bridge Construction (NIP 25 M Parallel Funding with Sweden
18 M and Italy 20 M) ­ Design & Build Project

    · Work progress in accordance with original Work Plan is satisfactory: 20% of the
        construction work for Main Bridge and 48% for the Approach Bridge have been executed.
        Estimated completion date: 12 March 2009.
    · EC paid 60.4 % of its contribution (advance payment for materials & equipment and first
        interim payment certificate).
    · There is a gap of 2.7 million euros to finance the Contract price. The Government will
        submit to all cooperating partners an official letter requesting funding to cover the
        contract price. EC informed that the required funds might be available under 10th EDF.

9 ACP MOZ 1 ­ Namacurra-Rio Ligonha road (NIP 70 M)

    · Lot 1 & 2 (Tamega): Works are dormant since August 2007 due to the lack of
        Contractor´s cash money to fulfill its obligations (e.g. no fuel on site, imported materials
        standing long time for customs in Nacala port).
    · Tamega was partially purchased by FINERTEC (41.4%) with new management in place
        from 30th October 2007.
    · Lot 3 (CMC di Ravenna): Implementation is slightly delayed. Expected completion:
        November 2007.

9 ACP MOZ 2 ­ Road Periodic Maintenance and Capacity Building (NIP 14 M)

    · Road Fund support: 2nd tranche of 4M  (2006) approved by HQs on 12/03/2007.
        Financial audit contract for 2nd tranche.
    · Programme Estimate 2: Capacity Building (September 2006 ­ December 2007) in
        progress.
    · TA to Ministry: Arcus Gibb services until November 2007.
    · TA to ANE: Peter Drummond until December 2007.

9 ACP MOZ 21 ­ Milange-Mocuba road feasibility, design and supervision (NIP 1.5 M)




                                                 48

    · The feasibility and design study (BCEOM) commencement date is 3/10/2007. Period of
       execution: 9 months.

9 ACP MOZ 12 ­ Emergency Works (NIP 5 M)

    · Lot 1 ­ Rio Save-Muxungue road. Funds de-committed ( 900,000).
    · Lot 2 ­ Programme Estimate 02 (September 2006 ­ December 2007) in the provinces of
       Nampula, Zambezi, Sofala and Inhambane in progress.

8 ACP MOZ 18 ­ RDP ­ Small Bridges component in Zambezia province (NIP 5 M)

    · Scott Wilson supervision services in progress until 31/12/2007.
    · Programme Estimate 2 (September 2006 to December 2007) ongoing. Execution period
       of the FA ends in December 2007.
    · Financial audit contract in circulation.

Item 2.2.1 Major Factors affecting implementation

(b) Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

Suggest add "ANE and Road Fund should circulate ToRs among cooperating partners for the TA
of PRISE as soon as possible."




                                               49

Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents

  1. Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project (APL1) ­ Project Appraisal
      Document;
  2. Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project (APL2) ­ Project Appraisal
      Document;
  3. Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project (APL1) ­ Development Credit
      Agreement;
  4. Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project (APL1) ­ Mid-Term Report;
  5. Project Implementation Plan;
  6. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report;
  7. Decree Number 14/99, National Roads System;
  8. Decree Number 15/99, Establishment of Administracao Nacional de Estradas (National
      Roads Administration);
  9. Decree Number 20/2003, National Roads System (revised);
  10. Decree Number 21/2003, Creation of the Inter-Ministerial Roads Committee;
  11. Decree Number 22/2003, Establishment of the Road Fund as a public institution with
      corporate entity status;
  12. Decree Number 23/2003, revision of Decree Number 15/99 establishing ANE (National
      Roads Administration) separating the Road Fund and changing other elements.




                                            50

