Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22201
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42650)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$130 MILLION
TO THE
TRANSPORTADORA BRASILEIRA GASODUTO BOLfVIA-BRASIL S.A.
FOR A
GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BOLIVIA-BRAZIL GAS PIPELINE
June 27, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit: Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2001)
Currency Unit = Brazilian Real
R$1.00 = US$ 0.44
US$ 1.00 = R$2.2761774
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANP           - Agencia Nacional do Petr6leo, Brazilian petroleum regulatory agency
bcm           - Billion cubic meter
BNDES         - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, Brazilian bank for economic
and social development
BTB           - Consortium comprising British Gas, Tenneco (now El Paso) and Broken Hill
Properties (participation of Broken Hill acquired by TotalElfFina)
CAF           - Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
CSPE          - Comissao de Servicos Publicos de Energia do Estado de Sao Paulo, Commission of
Public Energy Services of the State of Sao Paulo
DSCR          - Debt service coverage ratio
EA            - Environmental assessment (includes social aspects)
ECA           - Export Credit Agency
EIB           - European Investment Bank
ELETROBRAS - Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A., Brazilian electricity holding company
EMP           - Environmental and social management plan
FIDIC         - Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs Conseils, International Federation of
Consulting Engineers
GTB           - Gas TransBoliviano S.A., Bolivian gas transport company
LADB          - InterAmerican Development Bank
IBAMA         - Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovaveis, the
Brazilian environmental agency
ICR           - Implementation completion report
IDA           - International Development Association
IERR          - Internal economic rate of return
IFC           - International Finance Corporation
IFRR          - Internal financial rate of return
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Nelson de Franco



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMF           - International Monetary Fund
IPDP          - Indigenous peoples development plan
ISO            - International Standards Organization
LGDC           - Local gas distribution company
LIL            - Learning and innovation loan
LPG            - Liquified petroleum gas
MLA           - Multilateral agency
MMBtu         - Million British thermal unit
MMcmd         - Million cubic meters per day
NPV            - Net present value
PAD            - Project Appraisal Document
PCG            - Partial Credit Guarantee
PEB            - PETROBRAS Bolivia S.A., PETROBRAS subsidiary in Bolivia
PETROBRAS   - Petr6leo Brasileiro S.A., the Brazilian petroleum company
PPE            - Parcela de prego especifica - refers to Govemment fuels cross-subsidy mechanism at
ex-refinery level
QAG            - Quality Assessment Group
ROW            - Right-of-way
SCADA          - Supervisory control and data acquisition
SEGEN          - Servigo de Engenharia, Engineering department of PETROBRAS
SGDC           - State-owned gas distribution company
SSE            - South and South East Brazil
TBG            - Transportadora Brasileira Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil S.A., Brazilian gas transport
company
TCO            - Transport capacity option - refers to 6 MMcmd of pipeline capacity above TCQ
TCQ            - Transport Contract Quantity - refers to the initial contractual volume of 18 MMcmd
TCX            - Additional transport capacity - refers to 6 MMcmd of pipeline capacity above sum of
TCO and TCQ
YPFB           - Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos - Bolivian petroleum company
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               22
6. Sustainability                                                                   25
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    27
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  31
9. Partner Comments                                                                 35
10. Additional Information                                                          35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                50
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                52
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 55
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                59
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                61
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   62
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               63
Annex 8. Comments received from LADB                                                64






Project ID: P006549                                       Project Name: GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT
Team Leader: Nelson De Franco                             TL Unit: LCSFE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT                           L/C/TFNumber: SCL-42650
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: GP - Oil & Gas Transportation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/19/96                                Effective: 05/17/99           05/17/99
Appraisal:  06/01/97                                  MTR: 09/28/99              09/28/99
Approval:  12/18/97                                Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: TBG
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                         Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                            M. G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Team Leader at ICR:   Nelson de Franco                         Nelson de Franco
ICR Primary Author:
Nelson de Franco/Peter L.Law
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
2.1 These performance ratings reflect the achievements of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project
in light of its high complexity and extraordinary importance for regional economic development
and integration. It is also a demonstration of the value-added brought about by the Bank, which
chose to take a measured risk by embarking in a high-profile project, perceived by many as highly
ambitious and initially marked by controversy, notwithstanding the fact that it had been a dream
of the two countries for over 60 years.



2.2 The project required the integration of several areas of work to make feasible a challenging
piece of infrastructure. The challenges arose from the cross-boundary nature of the project,
involving a gas producer in a small economy and a huge potential demand in a large country, as
well as from the different regulatory frameworks, the need to bring in private participation in an
innovative manner, the use of novel financial instruments such as the partial credit guarantee, the
execution of a major engineering undertaking covering over 3,000 km within tight schedule and
budget,  and finally putting together a comprehensive environmental protection and social
compensation program in a coherent manner in the two countries. While the Borrower and the
guarantor were a Brazilian firm and the government of Brazil, the legal documents provided
coverage for the commitments for execution of the environmental and social management
program in Bolivia. The professional excellence of the Borrower is noteworthy and its willingness
to work in full cooperation with the Bank on delicate matters that on occasion required a change
in its customary approach to business. Throughout the project, the government of Brazil as the
major shareholder of the Borrower has maintained a positive dialogue with the Bank, which was
considered essential for the success of the project. The loan closed without any extension and
with full disbursement.
2.3 In addition to the construction concerns and sectorial policy matters in Brazil, the supervision
of the Bank, building on a dialogue with civil society organizations and the specialized work of a
consultant firm, an environmental auditor and an ombudsperson, ensured that the environmental
and social aspects of the project were implemented as designed. It is worth mentioning a
significant ecological compensation program which included the creation or considerable
improvement of 13 parks in Brazil; the improvement of the Kaa-Iya (Gran Chaco) National Park
in Bolivia; the implementation of indigenous peoples development programs in both Brazil and
Bolivia with considerable progress in indigenous people land titling in Bolivia, and a series of
socioeconomic compensation programs designed with the participation of the communities. Also
important is the fact that, at the Bank's behest an escrow account was kept with the required
funds to complete the few programs which were expected to be under execution beyond loan
closing.
2.4 Throughout preparation and implementation, the Bank played a critical role in bringing
together the efforts of other multilaterals, such as the IADB (InterAmerican Development Bank),
CAF (Corporacion Andina de Fomento) and EIB (European Investment Bank). The project has
also facilitated the dialogue with the Brazilian Government on important structural changes and
price mechanisms in the hydrocarbon sector. The International Association of Impact Assessment
granted its 2001 award to the two project implementing agencies, which also reflects the work of
the Bank in helping change a prevailing culture in the two national hydrocarbon sectors of not
systematically paying due attention to environmental and social matters in their activities.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Sector Background
3.1.1 The Gas Sector Development Project was the Bank's third lending operation in Brazil's
hydrocarbon sector, following the Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project (approved in 1989)
- 2 -



and the Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project (approved in 1991). The Project was
intended to support the Federal Government's policies to foster economic growth through
encouraging private sector participation and efficient resource allocation in the hydrocarbon
sector in a context of macroeconomic stability.
3.1.2 Throughout the 1 980s, the resources needed to increase the domestic supply of petroleum,
hydroelectricity and alcohol had contributed significantly to Brazil's macroeconomic problems,
particularly in tenns of the fiscal deficit and inflation. During the period 1984-86, Brazil's energy
sector absorbed almost half of all federally-funded investment, most of which was undertaken by
two of Brazil's parastatals. The national electricity holding company Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras
S.A. (ELETROBRAS) and the national oil company Petr6leo Brasileiro S.A. (PETROBRAS)
were responsible for about 22% and 18% of the total federal investments, respectively.
3.1.3 By the early 1990s, hydropower, petroleum and wood/sugar cane derivatives each
accounted for about one-third of Brazil's primary energy supply, with natural gas contributing
only 2%. At this time, Brazil was forecasting strong growth in energy demand and imported
natural gas from Bolivia offered the possibility to offset an increasing dependence on polluting
and/or more expensive fuels. These included fuelwood, which was a source of deforestation in the
southern states, liquified petroleum gas (LPG) which needed to be imported at high prices, and
high sulfur fuel oil, which was widely used in the industrial areas of Sao Paulo. On the other hand,
Bolivia had been exporting gas by pipeline to Argentina since the 1970s, but new discoveries in
Argentina gave notice that this was no longer tenable. It was critical for Bolivia to find an
alternative export market since gas sales to Argentina represented 80% of Bolivia's total gas
production, and it was reckoned that future gas exports to Brazil could represent 25% of Bolivia'
s total export earnings.
3.1.4 In the early nineties, the Brazilian and Bolivian governments decided to re-examine the gas
export project, which had been an unrealized dream of both countries for some 60 years. After
making a preliminary feasibility study, the two state monopolies, PETROBRAS and its
counterpart in Bolivia (Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos - YPFB) signed an
agreement in 1993 for the sale of 8-16 MMcmd natural gas over a twenty year timeframe. The
project would allow Brazil to increase the share of natural gas in primary energy supply to about
10% (depending on the degree of increase in Bolivian proven reserves) and would require the
construction of a gas pipeline from gas producing areas at Santa Cruz in Bolivia, to Sao Paulo in
southeast Brazil, and continuing to Porto Alegre in southern Brazil. However, with high demand
on public finances for social sector projects in both countries, the prospect of fully funding the
project through public finances was not considered feasible.
3.1.5 Since its creation in the fifties, PETROBRAS had held the national monopoly for
exploration and exploitation of petroleum and gas, refining, maritime transportation, and pipeline
transportation. Exceptions were the distribution of petroleum products which was open to
domestic and foreign investors, and distribution of natural gas which, under Brazil's federal
structure, could only be carried out by state-owned distribution companies. The Brazilian
Constitution of 1988 reinforced the monopoly position of PETROBRAS, and left petroleum
prices in the hands of government. Indeed, prices were manipulated to help control inflation,
- 3 -



resulting in subsidies on those very fuels which would have to compete with natural gas, such as
LPG and fuel oil.
3.1.6 In 1994, PETROBRAS, which was still obliged to take a controlling interest in any new gas
transport company under prevailing Brazilian law, embarked on a series of roadshows to choose
its private equity partners for the pipeline project, and ultimately selected the BTB consortium
forned by British Gas, Tenneco and BHP " to cosponsor the Brazilian transport company.
However, the private partners began to make their views known to the government that fair
access to downstream markets and good pricing policies would be important for the project.
These policies were in line with those favored by the World Bank, which through its ongoing
sector dialogue, had already been expressed to the Brazilian government.
3.1.7 In both Bolivia and Brazil, there was a growing perception that private participation in the
energy sector could bring economic benefits and lessen the risks taken by governments. In
Bolivia, President Sanchez de Lozada was elected on a platform of capitalization of state
enterprises including oil and gas, and YPFB was being prepared for sale by international tender. In
Brazil, an intense political debate on the validity of the national monopolies had started, fuelled by
the prospect of upcoming Federal elections and a Constitutional review which might allow greater
participation by private sector. Those in favor of change argued that continuation of the
PETROBRAS monopoly would leave the sector starved of investment capital and hindered by
traditional policies imposed by government. These policies called for PETROBRAS to charge less
than opportunity cost for its crude oil production, and for a petroleum fuels pricing structure
which heavily cross-subsidized the alcohol program and maintained petroleum fuel prices
equalized throughout the various geographic regions of Brazil.
3.1.8 In 1994, Fernando Henrique Cardoso was elected on a platform to sustain the recent
successes in fighting hyper-inflation and enhance private participation in the economy. After the
election, the Brazilian constitutional review process began in earnest, and in November 1995,
Congress approved the Constitutional Amendment No. 9, which removed the constitutional
barriers to private sector participation in oil and gas activities in Brazil. In addition, in February
1995 Congress approved the Concession Law for Public Services, which stipulated that all
concessions for public services (including gas distribution) should be awarded through
competitive bidding. The Hydrocarbon Law No. 9478 was approved in 1997 which was intended
to dismantle the monopoly of PETROBRAS and open the sector to private competition. The Law
defines the objectives of the energy national policy and creates the federal regulatory agency for
the hydrocarbon sector (Agencia Nacional do Petr6leo, ANP). It mandates that the national
energy policy should seek among other things to increase the economic use of natural gas and
promote competition for the development and use of energy sources.
3.1.9 On the Bolivian side, the Hydrocarbon Law was passed in 1996, which committed
Bolivian reserves to the export project and defined a new role for YPFB as the aggregator and
shipper of future gas exports to the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline. The capitalization of YPFB followed
shortly thereafter and resulted in two private upstream and one oil and gas transportation
company. For the gas export project, the Bolivian transport company (Gas TransBoliviano
S.A.-GTB) was formed as a private joint venture with Enron, Shell and Bolivian pension funds.
- 4 -



The PETROBRAS-BTB group formed the Brazilian transport company (Transportadora
Brasileira Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil S.A.-TBG) with 51% ownership by PETROBRAS.
3.1.10 The Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline was considered to have important regional significance in
terms of economic development and integration. It would become the cornerstone of a natural gas
transportation infrastructure for the Southern Cone of Latin America, linking gas-rich countries
(Argentina and Bolivia) with neighboring demand centers (Brazil, Chile and Uruguay).
Overview of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project
3.1.11 The Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline is 3,150 km long, including a 557 km portion from Santa
Cruz de la Sierra in Bolivia, to the Bolivian border near Corumba in Brazil, which is owned and
operated by GTB. On the Brazilian side, the 32-inch pipeline continues from Corumba to Sao
Paulo, and then with a smaller diameter pipeline to Porto Alegre; it is owned and operated by
TBG. In addition to the World Bank, the other development institutions that supported the
project were the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES), the
InterAmerican Development Bank (IADB), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and
Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (CAF). Export credit agencies were also an important source of
financial resources.
3.1.12 In February 1993, YPFB and PETROBRAS signed a gas supply agreement. This
established a timetable for the construction of the pipeline, the price terms for the gas and its
transportation, certain physical specifications of the pipeline, the minimum gas purchase
requirements and the volumes of gas to be transported through the pipeline. In addition, the
agreement provided for the establishment of the transportation companies to develop, own and
operate the pipelines in the two countries (approximately 80% of the assets in Brazil and 20% in
Bolivia). The agreement was revised in 1996, and the key features included: (i) YPFB to supply
gas volumes under the Transport Contract Quantity (TCQ), starting at 9 MMcmd in year one,
with a ramp up to 18 MMcmd by year eight, and remaining at this level for twelve years
thereafter; (ii) a 0% take or pay commitment by PETROBRAS in year one, 60% in year two, and
80% in year three and thereafter; and (iii) preferential access by PETROBRAS to the first 30
MMcmd of available Bolivian production, as well as the preference to supply gas to the pipeline
from those Bolivian fields where PETROBRAS (or its subsidiaries) would have a participating
interest. The gas supply agreement was again revised in 1999 and 2000 to modify the volume
ramp up to take account of market conditions in Brazil. The TCQ gas transport agreement was
formulated in 1997 and signed between PETROBRAS and TBG in 1999. It specifies the 20 year
ship or pay conditions for throughputs starting at 9.1 MMcmd in 2000 and reaching a plateau of
18.1 MMcmd by 2007. The same contract partners signed the TCX gas transport agreement in
1999 which reserves pipeline capacity of 6 MMcmd from 2001 for 20 years. The transport
capacity option (TCO) provides for 6 MMcmd capacity for exclusive use by PETROBRAS for a
term of 40 years. The TCO was prepaid by PETROBRAS through a pre-funding arrangement,
and thus TBG would not charge a capacity transport tariff to PETROBRAS for use of the TCO
capacity.
-5-



3.1.13 Mobilization of commercial financing, with appropriate terms and maturities for this type
of project, was not possible at the time of appraisal. A combination of multilateral lending, export
credits, and partial credit guarantees therefore offered the only prospect to obtain financing with
maturities long enough to achieve a gas price which would allow gas to penetrate the existing
energy market. For this reason, the Brazilian govermnent indicated early in the appraisal process
that it would be prepared to provide the necessary guarantees for such financing package.
However, multilateral financing and partial credit guarantees were not an option for the Bolivian
side since the transportation company there was structured as a fully private venture for which
sovereign guarantees, required from the Bolivian Government for multilateral support, were not
available. Nevertheless, the new owners of the transportation company in Bolivia, following the
spin-off and capitalization of YPFB, were not coming up with the required financing and seemed
not to attach the same urgency as PETROBRAS to close the pipeline financing and start the
construction. This sense of urgency was generated by agreements which had been entered into by
PETROBRAS and YPFB, as well as the Brazilian and Bolivian governments, and set a tight
schedule for construction of the pipeline and delivery of Bolivian gas to Brazil.
3.1.14 It became progressively clear to PETROBRAS that the Bolivian segment of the pipeline,
amounting to about 20% of overall construction costs, was impeding the realization of the entire
project. PETROBRAS, which had also been contracted to oversee pipeline construction in
Bolivia, then decided to mobilize financing for this portion of the project. It called an international
tender for construction of the Bolivian segment along the general lines of ICB practiced by the
Baank/IADB (without any involvement of the banks), and basically passed through financing terms
which it obtained for an equivalent amount of borrowing in the market, based on its own balance
sheet. These terms had only a limited impact on the ultimate cost of gas transportation, and thus
the gas price in Brazil because of the relatively small weight of the Bolivian segment of the
pipeline in total construction costs. However, financing of the entire pipeline based on these terms
would not have been feasible since specifically the shorter maturities (compared to multilateral
loans and partial credit guarantees) would have, during the initial phase, required a gas price level
that would have inhibited gas from penetrating the market, for which high sulfur fuel oil was the
main competing fuel.
3.1.15 Concerning environmental and social issues, the project was confronted with some of the
world's most ecologically sensitive regions, limited access infrastructure, indigenous populations,
archaeological sites, bi-national government interests, NGO interests, public-private partnerships,
and complex financing arrangements involving several multilateral agencies. The pipeline crosses
three important and distinct areas, which required special studies and careful planning of
construction techniques. Those are the Kaa-Iya (Gran Chaco) National Park in Bolivia, the
Pantanal wetland which covers portions of Bolivia and Brazil, and the Mata Atlantica, near the
coasts of Brazil. Furthermore, significant environmental and social issues along the pipeline were
present in segments both in Brazil and Bolivia not financed by the Bank. This required that legal
documents signed by Brazilians would ensure compliance with Bank safeguard policies on the
Bolivian side. The Bolivia-Brazil pipeline also presented great challenges due to its complex
social impacts. The pipeline right-of-way (ROW) cuts across more than one hundred small
conmmunities in Bolivia and Brazil, including indigenous communities '24, small rural villages, small
towns and large municipalities in Brazil. This involved four main issues for the Project to address.
- 6 -



First, it required negotiations with the communities to modify, when possible, the alignment of the
ROW to minimize social impacts and individual negotiation for the acquisition of land use rights
for the right of way with the landowners. Second, it required control and mitigation of social
impacts associated with the construction works, such as defining the right location of worker
camps; enforcing safety measures and workers' code of conduct, responding to damage to private
property, community infrastructure and personal injuries. Third, it required planning and agreeing
on compensatory measures for the up-stream and long term impact derived from the operation of
the pipeline and induced development. Finally, it required a smooth relationship with civil society
and full participation of the affected population and other stakeholders in the identification of
these issues, the design of appropriate mitigation and compensation measures and in the
monitoring of these measures.
Project Objectives
3.1.16 The project development objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
were to:
i)    develop a gas market in South/Southeast Brazil; and
ii)   help create an export alternative for Bolivian gas.
These objectives were clear and realistic and consistent with the Country Assistance Strategies
(CAS) for both Brazil and Bolivia. For Brazil, the CAS objective was to support the government's
strategy of infrastructure development by helping to mobilize private capital for needed
investments, with a secondary emphasis on financing critical infrastructure in areas where
market-based funding would not be feasible. For Bolivia, the CAS objective was to foster
Bolivian economic growth by developing the productive and export potential of its most
important natural resources - hydrocarbons, minerals and land.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 The project objectives were not revised during project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The Project comprised the construction of a 32-inch gas pipeline from Santa Cruz de la
Sierra in Bolivia to Campinas in Brazil (the trunkdine, which includes a lateral line from Campinas
to Guararema), continuing with a smaller diameter (24 to 16 in) to Porto Alegre (the southern
leg). The total length of the pipeline was 3,150 kin, with 2,593 km located in Brazilian territory.
The pipeline was designed to achieve a maximum throughput capacity of 30.1 MMcmd with full
compression. Although the initial gas supply agreement between PETROBRAS and YPBF only
committed YPFB to supply up to 16 MMcmd, the project sponsors agreed to proceed with the
larger capacity pipeline on the likelihood that additional supplies would become available from
Bolivia or Argentina, recognizing that a phased increase in compression would be needed to
accommodate the higher throughput volumes. Gas would be transported from Bolivia to Brazil
by two separate national transport companies with participation from all sponsors. The
PETROBRAS ship-or-pay agreement with the transport companies was for up to 18 MMcmd
(Transport Contract Quantity-TCQ). The entire project comprised three components:
- 7 -



(i) Project Component I (PAD total cost estimate US$436 million) - This component involved the
construction of the pipeline on the Bolivian side from Santa Cruz de la Sierra to the Bolivian
border near Corumba in Brazil (for which PETROBRAS won a turnkey contract at a cost of
US$350 million). Other costs under this component include execution of the environmental and
socioconomic compensation programs, working capital, interest during construction,
development, and management costs. This component was not financed under the Bank loan.
(ii) Project Component 2 (PAD total cost estimate US$1.421 million) - This component included
the construction of the main trunkline from Corumba to Campinas and the southern leg to Porto
Alegre. Its cost comprised: construction costs of i) the trunkline (including the lateral extension to
Guararema and two compressor stations), and ii) the southern leg (including two compressor
stations) '3 ; procurement of pipe, valves, fittings; installation of telecommunication and SCADA
system; and execution of the environmental and socioeconomic compensation programs. The
Bank loan only was used to finance the construction cost of the southern leg.
(iii) Project Component 3 (PAD total cost estimate US$229 million) - This component included
all the soft costs related to the Brazilian section of the pipeline which included: interest during
construction, development and management costs, debt service reserve fund, and working capital.
This component was not financed under the Bank Loan.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 The original components remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The ICR evaluates the quality at entry as Highly Satisfactory.
3.5.2 The project supported CAS objectives for both Brazil and Bolivia (see 3.1.16). The
overall concept of the project was considered clear and well articulated. The option for two
national transportation companies with cross-ownership was correct since the Brazilian legal
framework required a majority public sector transport company, in contrast to the Bolivian side.
The definition of the engineering aspects was in sufficient detail to procure the construction
works. The costs and financing plan were realistic and conducive to feasible gas transportation
costs and competitive gas prices to the end-consumers. The time for execution of the physical
works was deemed tight, but achievable under favorable conditions. The sector policy targets
were preceded by discussions with the Government and considered feasible.
3.5.3 The project was classified as category A for environmental purposes (OP 4.01). The
Borrower undertook a full Environmental Assessment (EA) which was reviewed by the Bank.
The Bank required that the entire pipeline be considered as a single unit regardless of the national
boundaries and financing arrangements. An EA was therefore prepared for the Bolivian segment
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank. An environmental and social management plan
(EMP) was prepared for the entire pipeline. The EA and EMP were discussed in public meetings
in Brazil and Bolivia, including rural and indigenous peoples communities on both sides. The
- 8 -



Bank requested and the Borrower prepared complete Indigenous peoples development plans
(IPDPs) for both Bolivian and Brazilian segments of the pipeline. The Borrower also committed
funds for social and environmental compensatory programs, which would be fully detailed and
agreed with the concerned communities and local governments (or federal and state government
agencies in the case of parks under their jurisdiction), and implemented in parallel with the
construction works. The EA reports and EMP were finally reviewed by the Bank and made
available to interested parties in both countries. An English Executive Summary was sent to the
Board.
3.5.4 A thorough analysis of alternatives for ROW alignment avoided most environmentally-
and socially-sensitive issues, including the need for any resettlement. Despite expected increased
construction costs, significant route re-alignments were made in the Pantanal and the Mata
Atlantica regions. Alternative construction techniques for the Pantanal crossing were analyzed.
The selected technique minimized both the need for access road construction and the footprint of
the project along these sensitive ecosystems. In order to minimize potential deforestation and
colonization risks, some key decisions were made regarding access roads: no new access roads
were to be built in the Bolivia segment, while in Brazil existing roads were to be used as far as
possible. Other unique  construction  techniques were envisaged  to  avoid  or minimize
environmental impacts on water bodies and riverine vegetation. Modern directional drilling
technology was selected to facilitate crossing of six major rivers along the pipeline route. An
expensive and engineering-challenging 780 m long tunnel connected to a 325 m vertical section in
the Serra do Mar area of Brazil was designed to replace a straight path through a geologically
unstable area and avoid potential erosion and slope instability impacts.
End-notes for this chapter:
This consortium known as BTB initially comprised British Gas, Tenneco (now El Paso) and Broken Hill
Properties with equal participation; participation of Broken Hills was later acquired by Total Fina Elf.
The pipeline ROW did not cross indigenous peoples' land in Brazilian territory.
The PAD description stated that just one compression station would be included at Penapolis, but this is
believed have been misstated as the financing plan made provision for two compressor stations on each of the
trunkline and southern leg.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  The outcome/achievement of objectives is rated as Highly Satisfactory.
4.1.2 Project Development Objective 1: To develop a gas market in South/Southeast Brazil
(SSE): The project outcome with respect to Project Development Objective 1 is rated as Highly
Satisfactory. Before the project, there was an incipient gas market already in SSE with
PETROBRAS supplying domestically produced gas to the two distribution companies in Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. The rationale for this rating is based on the volumes of Bolivian gas
absorbed in the SSE market to date and the contractual commitments made to absorb future
volume at the time of the ICR. These are compared to the equivalent volumes as specified in the
-9-



PAD (Tablel):
Table 1: TBG Pipeline Throughput Volumes - PAD vs Actual and Contracted
(MMcmd)
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2010  2015  2018
Actual
- TCQ       2.2   9.1  10.3  11.4  12.6  13.7  14.9  16.0  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1
- TCO       0.0   0.0   0.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
- TCX       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
TOTAL       2.2   9.1  10.3  17.4  24.6  25.7  26.9  28.0  30.1  30.1  30.1  30.1
PAD
- TCQ       5.0   9.1  10.3  11.6  13.0  14.4  15.5  17.1  18.3  18.3  18.3  18.3
- TCO       0.0   3.0   3.0   4.0   4.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
- TCX       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
TOTAL       5.0  12.1  13.3  15.6  17.0  20.4  21.5  23.1  24.3  24.3  24.3  24.3
Note: flows up to 2001 are actual, flows after 2001 are contracted
4.1.3 Due to the macro-economic difficulties experienced in Brazil during 1999, the gas market
did not develop at the pace anticipated at appraisal. This caused PETROBRAS and TBG to
renegotiate the transport agreements according to revised expectations of the market. As a result,
the capacity of the TBG pipeline to be utilized by PETROBRAS up to 2002 would be reduced,
while the capacity utilization thereafter would be increased. Under the current signed gas
transport contracts, the maximum throughput capacity of the pipeline will be reached by 2007.
While this represents a speedier uptake of gas than anticipated at appraisal, current negotiations
between PETROBRAS and TBG will further accelerate the flow ramp up and bring the full
capacity utilization of the pipeline forward to 2003. TBG has already signed contracts with
vendors for the delivery of the first three of eight new compressor stations needed to achieve the
increased pipeline utilization. The accelerated increase is mostly due to the decision of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy issued in February 2000 (which identifies 49 new priority
thermoelectric power plants to be fuelled by gas, in which PETROBRAS has secured a minority
ownership interest in 29) as well as the increased availability of Bolivian gas (see below).
4.1.4 The successful development of the gas market in SSE is also characterized by the private
investments made in gas distribution and transmission infrastructure since 1997. Nine largely or
fully private local gas distribution companies (LGDCs) have been created within the area of
influence of the pipeline. These are today distributing Bolivian gas supplied via eighteen city gates
along the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, and/or domestic gas produced from the Campos basin which is
transported through a local transmission network that has become physically integrated with the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline. In Sao Paulo, during 1999/2000, the existing Comgas was privatized
(British Gas/Shell) and two new virgin concession areas, completing coverage of the whole state
territory, were awarded to Gas Brasiliano (Snam/Italgas) and Gas Natural (Repsol). R$2.5
- 10-



billion (about US$1.25 billion) were generated in privatization revenues. In the state of Rio de
Janeiro, two LGDCs were privatized: CEG (Enron, Pluspertol, Gas Natural) and Riogas (Enron,
Pluspertol, Gas Natural, BR Distribuidora). PETROBRAS, as the shipper, has signed take or pay
contracts for Bolivian gas with several of the LGDCs in the SSE, including Comgas (Sao Paulo),
Compagas (Parana), MS Gas (Mato Grosso do Sul), SC Gas (Santa Catarina), and Sul Gas (Rio
Grande do Sul), as well as with TBG for transportation of the associated volumes indicated in
Table 1. Together, the LGDCs in the SSE have invested an estimated US$250 million in
distribution network expansions since 1997.
4.1.5 The project has stimulated investments in new transmission pipelines in SSE, mainly due
to the project's influence in opening the sector to private investments. As well as the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, three major private sector gas transmission projects have emerged aimed
at securing additional gas imports from Bolivia and Argentina. These projects have majority
ownership by international oil companies, and include: (i) a pipeline connection from the Bolivian
part of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, supplying gas to Cuiaba in Mato Grosso, which is now in
operation; (ii) a pipeline connecting the Argentine gas network to Uruguaiana in Brazil - which is
in operation and planned to eventually connect to Porto Alegre and thus complete the loop
connecting Bolivia, Brazil and Argentina; and (iii) a pipeline connecting the Argentine gas
network, via Uruguay, to Porto Alegre - the construction of the Argentina to Uruguay link has
commenced and the link to Porto Alegre is at the planning stage. More than US$100 million has
already been invested in these projects, which will require a further US$400 million for full
implementation. Although the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline is still in its infancy with full completion
achieved only in March 2000, market development is being supported by an independent
regulatory agency (ANP). The project has already stimulated large investments in gas
infrastructure and gas market expansion in SSE Brazil, as well as in the international gas trade in
the southern cone.
4.1.6 Project Development Objective 2: To help create an export alternative for Bolivian gas:
The project outcome with respect to Project Development Objective 2 is rated as Highly
Satisfactory. The rationale for this rating is based on the increase in proven and probable gas
reserves in Bolivia stimulated by the project, and the extent to which the pipeline is effective at
exporting these reserves to Brazil. Under a gas sales agreement (see 3.1.12), YPFB committed to
deliver 105 bcm to PETROBRAS. At appraisal time, Bolivia's proven plus probable reserves
were 161 bcm, of which only 82 bcm was available for export to Brazil, the balance being
required to meet export commitments to Argentina and for Bolivia's domestic use.
Implementation of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline project was expected to attract private investment
to exploration and production in Bolivia, and lead to sufficient additional reserves to make up the
supply shortfall. Between 1997 and 2000, private companies invested US$1.9 billion in oil and gas
upstream activities in Bolivia,r / with a further US$530 million committed for 2001. This has led
to an 700% increase in Bolivia's proven plus probable gas reserves to 1,324 bcm'2 , and these
reserves are currently under active development by 14 private production companies with wide
international representation in ownership, including PEB (the PETROBRAS subsidiary in
Bolivia), Total, Repsol, British Gas and Pluspetrol.
- 11 -



4.1.7 The utilization of the export pipeline to Brazil as reflected by the already contracted
pipeline transport capacity of TBG represents a contractual commitment for PETROBRAS to
deliver 184 bcm of Bolivian gas to the Brazilian market over a twenty year timeframe. This
compares with 82 bcm Bolivian reserves available for export at appraisal, and with 153 bcm to be
transported through the pipeline assuming more gas would become available in Bolivia and/or
Argentina. PETROBRAS' current contracts with TBG thus represent 20% more than the export
volume assumed at appraisal. It is judged highly likely that the maximum capacity of 30.1
MMcmd will be further brought forward to 2003. TBG's own forecast for SSE Brazil has
estimated demand to reach 45 MMcmd by 2005 and 54 MMcmd in 2010, and TGB is vigorously
studying options for looping (adding major new segments of pipeline) the existing Bolivia-Brazil
pipeline to increase the export capacity beyond the current fully compressed maximum of 30.1
MMcmd.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 These are grouped and evaluated according to the four applicable categories as specified
in the instructions for preparation of ICRs. These project outputs are: (a) physical components
relating to the construction of the gas pipeline, including those which were part of the EMP; (b)
sector policy components as stated in the policy letter from the government to the Bank;  (c)
institutional objectives; and (d) financial objectives. This categorization provides for a much
wider view of the project outputs than the project outputs as listed in the PAD logframe (Annex
1), which are limited and do not capture the full breadth of project achievements. However, all the
logframe outputs are assessed within the four categories below.
a) Physical Outputs
4.2.2.1 The achievement of project outputs involving physical components is rated as Highly
Satisfactory.
4.2.2.2 The construction of the trunkline from Santa Cruz to Campinas to Guararema (Project
Component l) was completed in late-March 1999, and commercial gas deliveries to Comgas
commenced in June 1999. For the southern leg (Project Component 2) first commercial gas
deliveries were made in March 2000, right after construction completion. Construction
completion was achieved according to the timescales assumed in the PAD with minor delays. The
final construction costs of the trunkline from Corumba to Campinas to Guararema, and the
southern leg from Campinas to Porto Alegre, were both within the PAD estimates.
4.2.2.3 With respect to the adequacy of the project design to achieve the physical objectives, all
key recommendations concerning project design in both countries (e.g. pipeline routing to avoid
environmentally sensitive areas, technical specifications, pipeline transport economics,
procurement and logistics, SCADA, market demand forecasts) were made by special committees
formed with representation from all the sponsors. This approach was very effective in ensuring
close coordination of all aspects of design along the entire length of the pipeline. The construction
management of the entire pipeline was carried out by SEGEN (the engineering department of
PETROBRAS) as the management contractor, under contract to GTB in Bolivia and TBG in
- 12-



Brazil. The contracting strategy was to divide the entire pipeline into construction spreads for
international competitive bidding. The Bolivian section from Santa Cruz to Corumba (spreads
1-2) was offered as a combined spread, and the sections from Corumba to Guararema (spreads
3-8), and the southern leg from Campinas to Porto Allegre (spreads 9-13), where each offered as
single or multiple spreads. The international tenders attracted between ten and twenty bids from
consortia of international and Brazilian construction companies for each of the three sections.
With respect to construction of the southern leg (the only section financed by the Bank), the five
spreads were contracted by three different consortia. Despite some delays caused by abnormal
rainfall and financial difficulties with one of the contractors, the contracting strategy enabled
SEGEN/TBG to reallocate spreads among the existing contractors and sub-contractors, which
allowed the construction schedule be kept with only minor delays.
4.2.2.4 The ambitious Environmental and Social Management Plan (EMP) for the Bolivia-Brazil
gas pipeline, of nearly US$36 million covering both countries, was satisfactorily implemented. A
few remaining issues (see below), which are of minor significance compared to the important
achievements of the project (and are outside the scope of the project sponsors' responsibility)
have all been firmly addressed. The EMP was the result of an extensive Environmental
Assessment effort in both countries, which lasted more than two years. This culminated in the
2001 International Association for Impact Assessment award to GTB and TBG, for Excellence in
Environmental Management and in the use of Impact Assessment in the design and construction
of the pipeline.
4.2.2.5 The Project implemented significant ecological compensation programs in both countries,
for which US$1 million corresponded to Bolivia and US$7.5 million to Brazil.'4 In Bolivia, the
ecological compensation component was part of the IPDP. The project sponsors agreed and
established a trust fund of US$1 million to provide incremental annual revenues to improve the
protection and management of the Kaa-Iya (Gran Chaco) National Park. The pipeline ROW runs
along a portion of the northern border of this very large (about 3 million hectares) and
ecologically significant protected area. This component was part of the IPDP because the
Kaa-Iya National Park is co-managed by CABI (Capitania de Alto y Bajo Izozog, an indigenous
NGO), in collaboration with SERNAP (Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas, Bolivia's national
protected areas agency). Trust fund income will be not only dedicated to the recurrent costs of
protected area management (park guard salaries, fuel, etc., as is usually the case), but also to fund
various park management investments. To reduce annual financial management costs, the IPDP
Executive Committee has arranged with the Wildlife Conservation Society (an international
conservation NGO based in New York) to pool the financial management of this trust fund with
other conservation funds.
4.2.2.6 Brazilian law requires that 0.5 percent of the total cost of infrastructure projects be
devoted to ecological compensation. These funds were assigned for land acquisition, small civil
works, and other conservation-related investments in 13 federal and state conservation units in the
five states traversed by the pipeline.1'5  These sub-projects were chosen under a consultation
process involving IBAMA (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renovaveis, Brazil's national environmental agency), the respective state enviromnental agencies,
and TBG. TBG was particularly proactive to hire its own consultants to assist IBAMA and the
- 13-



state agencies in properly preparing the conservation sub-projects. Three out of the thirteen
sub-projects were fully operational by closing of the loan. Owing to delays that stem from
administrative shortcomings of these governmental agencies, and are in no way attributable to the
Borrower, ten sub-projects still remain under implementation.  Bank supervision missions
confirmed the good quality of the civil works and other investments which were carried out.
Most importantly, TBG has agreed to maintain available the remaining undisbursed funds
(totalling about R$5 million) in an escrow account for ensuring completion of these subprojects.
In addition to the US$7.5 million ecological compensation program, TBG spent US$1.1 million in
indigenous peoples programs and US$3.6 million in socioeconomic programs along the pipeline.
Other programs of social and ecological interest were included in the construction contracts.
4.2.2.7 ROW restoration works and re-vegetation programs were implemented along the whole
length of the pipeline and a Vegetation Management and ROW Maintenance Plan was agreed
with the Bank prior to loan closure to cater for any spotty restoration that will always arise. The
Vegetation Management Plan includes the provision to reforest a portion of the ROW width along
natural vegetation areas leaving a narrower segment on top of the ROW free of wooded
vegetation. TBG is allowing half the ROW to reforestation. The project demonstrated the use of
certain state-of-the-art, environmentally-friendly techniques in pipeline construction. The nature
of the gas pipeline technology was such that the pipeline ROW would not need to be maintained
as a transitable road following construction. While in Brazil it has never been an issue, in Bolivia
the Bank has successfully sustained its position that the ROW should not be maintained as a road,
and that any needed maintenance work (from routine inspections to emergency repairs) should be
done without the ROW as a road (using helicopters, all-terrain vehicles, existing side roads, etc).
4.2.2.8 The agreed social-economic compensation programs have been implemented in both
Brazil and Bolivia. Several innovative elements were part of these programs. The first is the use of
social compensation plans to ensure ownership from local communities. The EMP included
socioeconomic compensation programs, as well as IPDPs for Bolivia and Brazil. These plans
were prepared in a demand-driven manner through consultations with the local communities and
special arrangements were made to ensure their sustainability, particularly in the case of the IPDP
in Bolivia through the establishment of a Trust Fund and an escrow account to continue with
some activities (land titling and support to sustainable development sub-projects) beyond the
closing date of the loan. Second, there was an increasing dialogue and collaboration between the
private sector investors and the local communities and civil society organizations that resulted in
an innovative monitoring system that ensured participation of local communities and civil society
representatives in the environmental monitoring process. Thirdly, as a consequence of the
project, a separate LIL (Learning and Innovation Loan) to address inter alia issues initially
proposed by civil society in Bolivia was prepared to develop a framework and build capacity for
upstream social and environmental impact monitoring for hydrocarbon investments (see below).
4.2.2.9 As acknowledged in the project's EA Report a sharp increase in gas exploration in Bolivia
due to the spin off and capitalization of YPFB and the access provided by the project to a major
new gas market in Brazil could have a significantly adverse environmental impact. As part of the
environmental preparation of the project, a strategic study of environmental impacts of potential
undertakings associated directly or indirectly with the project was prepared. In response, the
- 14 -



IADB made available about US$500,000 of an existing loan to produce an Environmental Action
Plan for Bolivia's hydrocarbons sector and committed to support the ensuing requirements out of
the Plan. As there were logistical difficulties with the implementation of the IADB loan, the Bank
offered the Government of Bolivia an assistance to promptly prepare such Action Plan and
continue strengthening its regulatory, licensing and monitoring capacity. The latter had been the
object of the Bank's assistance to the sector and to the overall privatization strategy. The
Government refused such new assistance but formally committed to achieve the goals required by
the Bank before the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline operation was cleared by the Vice-President for the
Latin American and Caribbean Region. As the IADB loan use continued to stall, the Bolivian
government finally accepted a US$4.8 million LIL for a Hydrocarbon Sector Social and
Environmental Management Capacity-Building Project, which was approved in May 2000.
Through the involvement of all stakeholders, this project aimed at improving the capacity of the
government to monitor and regulate the environmental and social aspects of hydrocarbons
exploration and development, and to strengthen the consultation, participation and information
mechanisms. The IADB-fmanced Action Plan is to be completed in the next few months. Given
the rapid recent increase in exploration by international oil companies in highly sensitive areas in
Bolivia, it could be argued that the Bank's assistance to the government of Bolivia might have
been more effective if it had been carried out when first proposed and had not initially relied upon
the use of the IADB loan.
4.2.2.10 As a consequence of completion of the pipeline, gas has been made available as a fuel
for efficient thermal power plants in SSE Brazil. The Ministry of Mines and Energy has identified
49 new priority thermnal power projects throughout Brazil for use with natural gas (Resolution 43
of February 25, 2000). In the SSE states, PETROBRAS is planning to supply 10 of these plants
with Bolivian and domestic gas, requiring 15 MMcmd in 2005 and 27 MMcmd in 2007. This year
it is expected that some 2,200 MW of gas-fired plants will be on line, whereas for next year an
additional 1,100 MW will be in operation. This is helping to mitigate the power shortages that are
now affecting the SSE. Without the project, the power shortages would be much more severe.
b) Sector Policies
4.2.3.1 The project output with respect to the sector policies is rated as Satisfactory.
4.2.3.2 At project appraisal, the Government submitted a Policy Letter to the Bank, which
committed the Government to implement certain actions consistent with deregulating and opening
the sector to competition in accordance with the Hydrocarbon Law. A major question remains on
how the government (as majority shareholder of PETROBRAS) will act upon activities exercised
by PETROBRAS to support that objective, as PETROBRAS' role changes from a monopoly into
one among several market players (see 4.2.4.2). The Government is in broad compliance with the
commitments made in the Policy Letter as noted below.
I - Liberalization of Prices of Fuels
4.2.3.3 In 1998, the ex-refinery prices of basic petroleum products (preqos de realizacao) of
gasoline, LPG, diesel oil, fuel oil, and aviation fuel from PETROBRAS refineries were set to
follow international import parity (US Gulf) prices, in compliance with the policy letter.
- 15-



4.2.3.4 According to the Hydrocarbon Law, prices of petroleum derivatives (and natural gas)
were supposed to be freed after a three year transition period, or by August 6, 2000. Because of
Brazil's macroeconomic difficulties during 2000, which resulted in lower than anticipated tax
revenues and the need for the Government to pay down the Conta Petr6leo (R$3.5 billion which
is owed by the government to PETROBRAS for past subsidies on petroleum products), the
government extended the transition period until December 31, 2001 in agreement with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF). This enabled the Government to continue collecting revenues
through the Parcela de Preqo Especifca-PPE, a Government fuels cross-subsidy mechanism at
ex-refinery level'f'. Because PETROBRAS is a government-owned company, the government is
able to set PETROBRAS ex-refinery invoice prices (preqos de faturamento) of gasoline and
diesel higher than the prices received by PETROBRAS (preqos de realizavdo) under the PPE.
However, since the PPE is not a bona fide tax it does not apply to independent importers or
refiners. While the PPE remains in place, the free import of gasoline or diesel to Brazil would not
gain authorization from ANP since PETROBRAS would not be able to compete on a level
playing field, and this presents an obstacle to the development of competition for these specific
fuels but not for gas development, since these fuels hardly compete against natural gas. However,
at the end of the extended transition period, the government intends to replace the PPE with a tax
which would be applicable equally to PETROBRAS and its competitors. Distribution and resale
margins of petroleum products are free, with final prices of diesel subject to price cap, and LPG
subject to price cap only in remote regions of Brazil. The consumer price of fuel oil, which is the
major competing fuel to natural gas for industrial use, is liberalized.
4.2.3.5 In compliance with the policy letter, the price of Bolivian imported gas sold to the gas
distribution companies comprises two parts which reflects the commodity cost and the
transportation cost.  A new pricing regime for domestic natural gas was introduced by
Inter-ministerial Resolution No.3 on February 17, 2000, which requires the city gate price be
separated into two parts - a commodity charge indexed to international prices of a basket of
petroleum products (the same basket used for imported Bolivian gas), and a transport charge
which incorporates a distance-based component.
4.2.3.6 The Government aimed at a simplification of the gas pricing for the emergency
thermoelectric program, by defining a single price in SSE and another single price in the
Northeast, as part of an strategy to facilitate the participation of private investors in the program.
This price was worked out considering the expected supply of domestic and imported gas and,
particularly for the SSE, the differentiated transportation prices under the TCQ, TCO and TCX
(the latter two being sensitive to volume and distance). The Bank assessed that the loss of
identity of the distance-based principle under the averaging result could bring an unnecessary
distortion, albeit possibly small, to the economic pricing of gas and electricity, but reckoned the
higher goal pursued by the Government of effectively (maybe not altogether efficiently) increasing
power supply. The temporary character of the emergency program and the clear instance of ANP
favoring distance-based tariffs will facilitate resuming the discussion with the government on
redressing this issue of homogenized gas pricing for thermoelectricity.
- 16-



II - Regulation of the Natural Gas Sector
4.2.3.7 The ANP has issued a comprehensive set of regulations designed to promote private
participation and competition in the supply of natural gas. Specifically, these include regulations
that: (i) mandate non-discriminatory third party access to gas transmission pipelines; (ii) establish
gas transport tariffs taking into account volume transported and transportation distance; (iii)
specify procedures for arbitration by the ANP in the case of tariff disputes; and (iv) specify
procedures to be followed for the importation of natural gas by public and private enterprises. At
the time of the ICR, these regulations are being strengthened and augmented by the ANP.
III - Regulation Applicable to the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline
4.2.3.8 The regulations pertaining to gas transmission issued by the ANP are applicable to the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, even though the regulations were issued by ANP during project
implementation. These provide for third party access and for firm and interruptible services for
uncommitted capacity in the pipeline. In July 2000, the ANP arbitrated its first dispute concerning
the transport tariff offered by TBG to a third party shipper (ENERSIL, an Enron company) that
had requested use of available capacity (above the TCQ) to the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline on an
interruptible basis, and in April 2001 its second dispute concerning the provision of firm transport
services to British Gas. The ANP ruled in favor of the third party shippers to allow access to the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline against strong opposition from GasPetro. The resolutions by ANP facilitate
the first examples of third party access by shippers to a gas transmission pipeline in Brazil. In
addition, TBG is operated according to the commitments of the policy letter, as a gas
transportation company only, without engaging in gas purchase, gas sales, gas production, nor gas
distribution.
4.2.3.9 The TCX transport contract between TBG and PETROBRAS sets transport tariffs to
take account of distance, and so complies with the policy letter. Also, TBG has signed two
contracts with Enron for interruptible services, and has negotiated a contract with British Gas to
provide 2 MMcmd capacity using distance based transport tariffs.
4.2.3.10 The government of Brazil has complied with the Policy Letter which mandates the
issuing of a program for the reduction of PETROBRAS shareholding in TBG. Such letter was
submitted by GasPetro on March 30, 2000, to conclude the selling of shares, so it would no
longer have control as a majority stakeholder. The letter states that this sale is to take place after
the disbursement of all multilateral loans and the launching of the Partial Credit Guarantee (PCG)
notes, which is currently awaiting Senate's clearance. The Bank had agreed that the launching of
the PCG notes would be jeopardized if preceded by change in TBG ownership.
IV- Substitution of High Sulfur Fuel Oil by Natural Gas and Reduction of Sulfur in Fuel
Oil
4.2.3.11 Bolivian natural gas is now being supplied to each of the five states along the pipeline.
Most of the gas is used by general industry, where it is displacing high sulfur fuel oil and other
polluting fuels. PETROBRAS has initiated a project to reduce maximum sulfur content in fuel oil,
- 17-



to comply with the ANP regulatory act No. 80, which stipulates a reduction of maximum sulfur
content in fuel oil from 5% to 4%.
c) Institutional Objectives
4.2.4.1 The project output with respect to the institutional objectives is rated as Satisfactory.
4.2.4.2 Since the passage of the Hydrocarbon Law in 1997, the Brazilian hydrocarbon sector has
undergone a fundamental transformation. Today there are four distinct entities operating in the
gas transport sector, the gas distribution sector has been substantially privatized, and many
international oil and gas companies are now engaged in exploration and production activities
besides PETROBRAS. Also, the new federal and state regulatory agencies are very active in
regulating the hydrocarbon sector. As required by the Hydrocarbon Law, PETROBRAS started
implementing a fundamental unbundling of its activities. In 1998, the PETROBRAS formed
Transpetro, the subsidiary responsible for all its oil and natural gas transportation activities, and
GasPetro, the subsidiary responsible for all its natural gas bulk supply and trading activities.
PETROBRAS still has a dominant role in the Brazilian hydrocarbon sector with participation in
all segments of the production and supply chain (plus a recent expansion into electricity
generation). This may yet be an obstacle to achieving a level playing field and therefore the
establishment of a full-fledged market in the hydrocarbon sector, and will call for a strong
presence of the regulator to avoid the abuse of market power. However, the regulator has already
made a landmark decision ruling in favor of two shippers to have open access to the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline. Also, two additional new gas import pipelines are already operational in
SSE Brazil, one with 10% share by GasPetro, and the other without any ownership by
PETROBRAS at all. While a truly competitive environment will take some years, the presence of
important international players and a strong regulator is beginning to make itself felt as a powerful
counterweight to the power of PETROBRAS.
Development of Hydrocarbon Sector Regulatory Capacity
4.2.4.3 The Agencia Nacional do Petr6leo (ANP) was set up in 1998 with responsibility for
upstream and downstream hydrocarbon regulation at the federal level. It has a Director-General
and four Directors who are appointed by the President of the Republic after having their names
approved by the Federal Senate. The agency has some 400 employees organized under nineteen
Superintendencies each with a functional area, and an office of General Counsel. Its budget is
primarily derived from the royalty taken from exploration and production licenses, with some
initial budget provided by the government. During its first two years of operation, the ANP was
primarily occupied with establishing its databases, building up its human resource and regulatory
capacity, and successfully supervising the first two rounds of exploration promotion during 1999
and 2000. Since the completion of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, the agency has been highly active
strengthening its capacity to regulate the downstream gas sector, and has arbitrated on two high
profile disputes regarding access to the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline (see 4.2.3.8). The ANP has issued
a comprehensive set of oil (7 and gas sector regulations dealing with third party access and tariffs,
and is continuing to build its regulatory capacity in this area.' Since its creation, the ANP has
demonstrated its independence in decision-making, and had adopted a public participatory
- 18 -



approach by proactively seeking public comments on its draft concession contracts and sector
regulations on its website, before bringing them into force.
4.2.4.4 The largest market for Bolivian gas is in the state of Sao Paulo. The Comissdo de
Servi(os Pu4blicos de Energia (CSPE) of Sao Paulo was established by state law and regulates
natural gas distribution at the state level. The Commission is headed by the Commissioner
General, and overseen by a Council (Conselho Deliberativo) appointed by the State Governor,
which consists of thirteen members representing the government and industry interest groups. The
Council approves the state regulatory framework, the work program and budget of the
Commission, and acts as an appeal body for certain decisions of the Commissioner General. The
Commission's funding derives partly from a tax on gas distribution company revenues, and partly
from the State government. The broad parameters for the regulation of natural gas distribution
activities are set out in a state decree, which defines the general procedures for granting
distribution concessions, the term of the concession, the contents of the concession contract, the
obligations of the concession holder, exclusivity conditions, the general criteria for tariffs, and the
powers of the regulator. The specific details applicable to each LGDC are contained in the
respective concession contracts, which are entered into by the LGDC and the state, represented
by the Commissioner General of the CSPE. The ANP has an agreement with CSPE to cooperate
in the development of studies and activities relating to the transportation, distribution and
marketing of natural gas including: training of personnel; economic regulation and appropriate
criteria for limiting vertical integration; definition of boundaries between systems of
transportation; and economic and technical issues related to natural gas.
d! Financial Objectives
4.2.5.1 The project output with respect to the financial objectives is regarded as Highly
Satisfactory. This rating is based upon the fact that the project was able to raise all required
sources of funding and disburse these funds in a timely way, without any financing gaps. TBG has
been successful in negotiating the required commercial funding through a Partial Credit Guarantee
(PCG) operation. This involves TBG issuing a US$180 million Note (to be bought by identified
investors) with Bank guarantee for repayment of principal and two interest annual payments
(coupons) on a rolling basis. Total maturity is 18 years with principal amortization in three equal
annual installments at the end. Negotiated price has been 435 basis points (4.35%) above
30-year US Treasury Notes, which is extremely advantageous to the project finances and indicates
the high value-added by the Bank instrument. This is the first Bank guarantee operation for Brazil.
Unfavorable financial market conditions for Brazil have prevented TBG from launching this
operation earlier. While the guarantee operation has not yet been completed, it will be executed as
soon as the Brazilian Senate clears the operation. In the meantime, the equity holders have
provided adequate bridge funding.
4.2.5.2 In February 2000, TBG had estimated a debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) slightly
below 1 for 2001/2. This would represent a shortfall for senior debt service and would jeopardize
the PCG Notes issue, if not properly addressed. An agreement was reached with PETROBRAS to
provide a US$40 million standby facility to TBG which could be drawn down in these years,
sufficient to ensure a satisfactory DSCR of 1.2. However, TBG's revised financial projections
showed the DSCRs to be now higher than this threshold and there will therefore be no need to
draw on this facility. The latest DSCRs compare well with the PAD" 4
- 19-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Calculations were made of the economic costs and benefits, following the same approach
as used in the Annex 4 of the PAD. A cost-benefit analysis was prepared which evaluates the
economic benefit to Brazil of the proposed project. Project benefits were estimated by calculating
the net benefit of using gas (the netback value) based on the cost of alternative fuels displaced and
adjusted for efficiency and other cost differentials, plus an environmental premium where natural
gas displaces more polluting fuels. Where alternative fuels are tradable, benefits were based on the
border prices plus internal transportation costs. Project costs included the cost of gas supply at
the inlet of the pipeline in Bolivia, the investment and operating costs of the pipeline, the costs of
new gas distribution systems in Brazil, and the cost of converting existing consumers of
alternative fuels to natural gas. All costs excluded taxes, duties and financial costs.
4.3.2 The recalculated internal economic rates of return (IERR) and net present values (NPV)
compared to those calculated at appraisal are as follows:
For entire project:
Appraisal Estimates:  IERR = 21%   NPV @12% discount rate = US$1.23 billion
Recalculated Values: IERR = 22%   NPV @12% discount rate = US$1.61 billion
For southern leg:
Appraisal Estimates:  IERR = 27%   NPV @12% discount rate = US$0.75 billion
Recalculated Values:  IERR = 20%   NPV @12% discount rate = US$0.34 billion
4.3.3  At appraisal, the IERRs were determined including the TCQ and the TCO to give a
maximum flow of 24 MMcmd through the entire pipeline, of which 14.6 MMcmd and 9.7
MMcmd were consumed along the trunkline and the southern leg respectively. The IERRs were
recalculated based on the signed transportation contracts prevailing in June 2001 (see Section
4.1.2). This indicates a higher flow through the entire pipeline of 30.3 MMcmd, of which 24.1
MMcmd and 6.1 MMcmd will be consumed along the trunkline and the southern leg respectively,
which is reflective of the high demand for gas in power generation along the trunkline which will
consurne the full TCO/TCX gas volumes, and the slower than anticipated demand build up for
natural gas along the southern leg. It is noted that the southern leg is likely to take on an
increasing importance due to new gas import line from Argentina which is already operational to
Uruguaiana, and is planned to link up with the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline at Porto Alegre, and
will likely lead to a part reversal of flow through the southern leg.
4.3.4 The final project costs on the Bolivian side were very close to the appraisal estimates
(US$438 million actual vs. US$436 million at appraisal), mainly because the construction turn-key
contract was capped (US$350 million) and awarded prior to appraisal. On the Brazilian side also,
final costs were 97% of the appraisal estimates (US$ 1.594 million actual vs. US$ 1,650 million at
appraisal).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 The intemal financial rates of return (IFRR) were determined, as in the PAD, to reflect the
projectfs after-tax financial viability for TBG. At appraisal, the IFRR was estimated at 9.0% (real)
- 20 -



and 12.9% (nominal), based on achieving the full TCQ volumes (18 MMcmd) by 2007. While the
assumption was made that the TCO would be used from 2000, and would reach its full capacity
(6 MMcmd) by 2007, the TCO was considered to be financially neutral for TBG, in accordance
with the contractual arrangements in effect at the time. Furthermore, in absence of any agreements
with respect to the shipment of excess volumes, the TCX was not taken into account (see table 1
in 4.1.2). For the IFRR calculations, TBG's nominal pre-tax cash flows (operating income, minus
indirect taxes, minus post-start-up capital expenditures) were adjusted by direct taxes (income tax
and social contribution tax). The real value was calculated by adjusting the nominal cash flows for
the projected international inflation rate. The recalculated IFRRs reflect the current contractual
arrangements for the accelerated TCQ/TCO/TCX volumes for which TBG signed contracts with
PETROBRAS. Their values amount to 10.4% (real) and 14.3% (nominal). The increase over the
PAD projections is due to the higher throughput, which reaches full pipeline capacity by 2007.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 Institutional development impact is rated High based on the capacity of TBG to sustain its
business activities.
4.5.2 TBG has established itself as a full-fledged company running its business independently
from its equity holders. It started up in 1998 as a full company to complete and operate the
Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline, with PETROBRAS supplying two members of the executive
directorate, and with BBPP Holdings (a successor to BTB) and the Transredes/Shell and Enron
group each supplying one additional member. That year, it established its definitive headquarters
in Rio de Janeiro, including an SCADA system, and two division offices in Campo Grande and
Campinas, and its staffing reached 100. Since 1999, TBG has entered into the operating phase of
the project, along with the establishment of the company's third division in Florian6polis, with
deliveries of up to 9.1 MMcmd being made during the second part of the year. That year, it
consolidated its administrative infrastructure, including the implementation of SAP/R3 as an
integrated corporate management system, and its staff climbed to 175 and remained constant
since. It is worth noting that one of the key achievements of this early operating phase of the
pipeline has been the receipt by TBG of certifications issued by the Brazilian Authority and an
international agency for environmental and quality standards (ISO 14,001 and 9,002) and for
safety and working standards (British Standards 8,800), assuring TBG's continued commitment
beyond the construction period to the environment as well as to the safety and security of its
operations. TBG has entered into firm transportation contracts with PETROBRAS that ensure its
financial sustainability. In addition, it has shown to be prepared for exploring other sources of
business, with utilization of its temporary availability of transportation capacity. It is also prepared
to grow along with the Brazilian gas market, by eventually expanding the pipeline capacity.
End notes for this chapter:
Includes US$572 million capitalization investments for the Andina and Chaco production companies. The
Bolivia transport company, Transredes, attracted US$264 million in investments.
[2/1 Bolivia's proven/probable oil reserves also increased from 200 million barrels in 1997, to 700 million
barrels in 2000.
Dated November 26, 1997 - see PAD, -nnex 12.
- 21 -



The commitments and disbursements of the EMP in Bolivia were both in US$. In Brazil, the comnmitments
were assessed initially in US$ at a parity with R$ ($7.5 million), with the understanding that disbursements
would be in R$. These commitments were translated in physical programs. Despite the devaluation of the R$
in early 1999, these physical programs will be eventually executed with an amount slightly superior to
R$7.5 million, because local inflation did not reflect the devaluation and some subprograms were executed
below the forecast values.
1511  These are the newly-created Serra da Bodoquena National Park in Mato Grosso do Sul and the previously
existing Ipanema National Forest and Alberto Loefgren State Park in Sao Paulo; Superagui National Park
and Cerrado, Guartela, and Campinhos State Parks in Parana; Sao Joaquim National Park, Serra do
Tabuleiro State Park, and Morro do Baui Botanical Park in Santa Catarina; and Aparados da Serra National
Park and Mata Paludosa State Biological Reserve in Rio Grande do Sul. In addition, TBG is currently in
negotiations to provide additional funding for assisting the Tainhas State Park in Rio Grande do Sul, in the
provision and structuring of management facilities, because the pipeline ROW was unexpectedly found to
have traversed a section of this conservation unit, due in part to the lack of clear on-the-ground demarcation.
In addition, TBG will plant 375,000 trees in the state to comply with state laws.
[611  The Parcela de Preqo Especifica (PPE) mechanism  sets the ex-refinery invoice prices (precos de
faturamento) of certain products (usually gasoline and diesel) at a higher level than the ex-refinery prices
received by PETROBRAS (pre,os de realiza,do), the difference in revenues being used to subsidize the
alcohol program and the distribution costs of certain fuels (e.g. LPG) to remote areas of Brazil. It is also
used to pay off the Conta Petr6leo, which is a debt owed by the government to PETROBRAS representing
the difference between the cost of imported and domestic crude accumulated over the previous decades,
when PETROBRAS was only permitted to recover its costs based on the cost of domestic crude.
ANP issued a comprehensive set of regulations for the oil sector, covering non-discriminatory third party
access to marine tenriinals and oil pipelines,as well as criteria for setting tariffs for third party use of such
facilities.
[8/]
ANP has been using a small portion of a Bank Technical Assistance for the Brazilian energy sector.
[9//1
DSCR values:l.43 PAD vs 1.61 actual (2000); 1.37 PAD vs 1.31 actual (2001);1.30 PAD vs 1.22 actual
(2002);1.42 PAD vs 1.74 actual (2003); 2.28 PAD vs 2.18 actual (2007).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Severe fluctuations in the international price of crude oil (ranging from US$10 to 35 per
barrel) and of petroleum products, and a major devaluation of the Brazilian real in 1999 impacted
on the price competition between natural gas and alternative fuels, because PETROBRAS pays
for Bolivian gas in US$, but collects revenues from sales to LGDCs in R$. The Hydrocarbon Law
stipulated that fuel price deregulation be implemented by August 6, 2000, and while ex-refinery
prices of the most important petroleum products have been set to follow international prices since
1998, the Government has decided to retain the PPE until December 31, 2001 in agreement with
the IMF and compelled by macro-economic reasons (see 4.2.3.4). As long as the PPE remains,
the free import of gasoline or diesel would not gain authorization from ANP since PETROBRAS
would be unable to compete on a level playing field with potential competitors, and so this
presents an obstacle to the development of competition.
5.1.2 The higher than average rainfall in Bolivia and Brazil during project execution, led to
(limited) delays in the construction program.
- 22 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Since 1997, the Government has made strong progress with deregulation of fuels prices,
despite the severe fluctuations in the international price of crude oil and of petroleum products,
and a major devaluation of the Brazilian real, as noted above. Although monetary policy is
dictated by government, the financial crisis which led to these changes in exchange rate was due
to exogenous factors (the Asian financial crisis) and required the government to defend the
Brazilian currency against speculative attacks, and eventually led to the adoption of a floating
exchange rate of the real against the US dollar.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The high commitment by PETROBRAS to the project, coupled with the high quality
professional staff assigned to the project, including the counterpart staff provided by the private
sponsors, enabled many obstacles to be overcome for such a complex project. These related to
the setting up of the new transport company, as well as obstacles encountered during the design,
construction, logistical, environmental management and financing of the project, in addition to the
contractual negotiations with the Bolivian side, which underwent a deep structural change
following the initial agreements. It is relevant to note that PETROBRAS committed to the
financing and execution of the EMP on the Bolivian side, and the reflection of these commitments
into the Bank's loan agreement permitted to overcome a major obstacle with the loan negotiation:
while the borrower was the Brazilian TBG, the Bank required assurance on the implementation of
the agreed EMP in Bolivia. To overcome all such obstacles, PETROBRAS usually took on the
most of the risks in order to drive the project forward.
5.3.2 Innovative organizational arrangements for EMP implementation were put in place by the
project sponsors. These bear on  the consideration of the pipeline as a single unit for
environmental purposes, regardless of country boundaries. Thus, the EMP was designed and
implemented according to the same basic principles and criteria and common organizational
arrangement for EMP. Implementation arrangements included an Environmental Committee, an
Environmental Inspection Team, an Environmental Management Unit, an Environmental Auditor
and Ombudsperson, and a MLA Ad-Hoc Environmental Committee" ".
5.3.3 The FIDIC-based procurement and ensuing contract documents, used for the southern leg,
can make the owner liable to pay compensation for what can become a liberal interpretation of
rainy days. As SEGEN has not defined a baseline for rainfalls, due to unavailability of clear data
and scarcity of time to develop them on a scientific basis, it prompted many claims by the
contractors which slightly increased the final project cost.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 Project Cost: The PAD project cost estimate for the TBG portion of the Bolivia-Brazil
pipeline was US$1.650 million for the three pipeline segments - Corumba to Campinas, Campinas
to Guararema, and Campinas to Porto Alegre. These included US$ 1.421 million hard costs (direct
costs, engineering and management, and contingencies) and US$229 million for soft costs. The
- 23 -



direct costs included US$48 million for two compressor stations on the trunkline and US$ 16
million towards two compressor stations on the southern leg. The final cost of the project based
on actual project expenditures was US$1.594 million, or 97% of the PAD estimate. This
comprised US$1.410 million in hard costs and US$184 million in soft costs.
5.4.2 Sources and Uses of Funds: The PAD financing plan included US$690 million in MLA
(multilateral agency) funding (including the Bank loan for US$130 million towards construction
of the southern leg and a Bank PCG for US$180 million); US$310 million from corporate
investors; US$104 million in ECA funding; US$244 million in pipe loans through Brazilian
BNDES, and an advanced capacity payment from PETROBRAS of US$302 million for the TCO.
The financing plan at appraisal was pretty much followed during project implementation, with
US$690 million in MLA funding; US$175 million sourced from corporate investors; US$145
million in Export Credit Agency (ECA) funding; US$281 million in pipe loans through BNDES,
and the TCO payment from PETROBRAS for US$302 million.
5.4.3 During the course of the construction, on-lending arrangements from BNDES and ECAs
increased from US$348 million to US$427 million. The reduction of the project cost by some
US$56 million and the increase of the ECA/BNDES funding onlent by PETROBRAS by some
US$79 million (a net combined of US$135 million) explains the need for US$135 million less
(initial) support from the shareholders than envisaged at appraisal (see below).
5.4.4 The project concept at appraisal did not consider the increase in the compression capacity
required to reach the full pipeline throughput of 30 MMcmd. This will require TBG to further
invest US$244 million in the construction of 8 additional compressor stations (which are currently
being procured), thus increasing the total TBG cost to US$1.838 million in the Bolivia-Brazil
pipeline. This additional investment would be funded by the shareholders with the US$135 million
mentioned above, with the remainder possibly coming from further loans (US$94 million) and
internal cash generation (US$15 million).
5.4.5 With respect to disbursement of funds, the early funding in 1998 was supported mainly by
the TBG shareholders, pari passu with the advance capacity payment by PETROBRAS and in
conjunction with PETROBRAS on-lending arrangements with ECAs and BNDES. MLA funding
commenced in 1999 with full disbursement made from the EIB and CAF. As of December 2000,
both the US$240 million IADB and the US$130 million Bank loans had been disbursed. Initial
Bank disbursements were slower than planned because TBG disbursed the whole EIB loan before
withdrawing proceeds from the Bank loan, in addition to a delay of a few months in the execution
of the works, a longer resolution of claims, and some slowness in the processing of
documentation between SEGEN and TBG, and from TBG to the Bank. TBG opted for not using
the special account and relied on direct applications to the Bank for reimbursement, for which
they preferred to accumulate a reasonable number of invoices. The use of the special account
would have somehow expedited the flow of disbursement, however TBG having a very reduced
financial staff did not want to create another financial instrument and control, albeit simple as the
Bank team reiterated many times to TBG, and continued the same procedures used for disbursing
the IADB, CAF and EIB loans.
- 24 -



End-notes for this chapter:
(i) Environmental Committee: comprised environmental representatives of all sponsors, and had the
ultimate responsibility in environmental matters. The Committee held regular meetings regarding pending
or outstanding environmental issues, served as liaison for financing institutions and coordinated the
implementation of all components of the EMP. It played a particularly important role during the period that
preceded the full establishment of TBG as an operating company; (ii) Environmental Inspection Team: an
international consulting firm was in charge of enforcing EMP requirements, including an Environment
Workers Code of conduct along the thirteen construction spreads. Each spread had at least one full-time
environmental inspector. Main aspects enforced by the inspection teams included: erosion and sedimentation
control, slope stabilization, water course protection, vegetation management, and wildlife cultural resources
protection, waste management, siting, construction and operation of camps. The inspection team was
successful overall in enforcing these aspects. [Commentary: the detailed specifications for the management
of construction activities, which were included in the EMP, were present in all bidding documents and
contracts. Although these requirements were legally binding, the enforcement mechanisms were weak in all
contracts and penalty provisions for non-compliance were not included. This initially contributed somewhat
to a lack of commitment and effort to adhere to proper construction practices by some contractors. The high
number of spreads and the diverse cultural and technical background of contractors also impeded uniform
environmental practices along the pipeline. Environmental standards were weak among most contractors.]
A comprehensive training program for inspectors, as well as for key construction personnel, has been
viewed as a critical element in the success of the environmental inspection program. Monthly reports on the
environmental inspection effort were sent to the Bank; (iii) Environmental Management Unit: this included
environmental and socials scientists, supplied by the same consulting firm in charge of environmental
inspection, and provided assistance in the implementation of all the non-construction related components of
the EMP, mainly the social and ecological compensation programs; (iv) Enviromnental Auditor: an
intemational consultant who was hired by project sponsors but reported directly to the MLAs, audited
compliance of environmental and social requirements. Bi-monthly audit reports were submitted to the Bank
and executive summaries of the audit reports were distributed to NGOs and other interested parties. Along
the implementation of the project, part of the Auditor fumctions more related to the social area was assigned
to a newly-created position: the Ombudsperson; and (v) MLA Ad-Hoc Environmental Committee:
comprised of environmental and social scientists of the World Bank, InterAmerican Development Bank, and
the Andean Development Corporation (CAF). This close inter-institutional coordination ensured consistent
environmental and social requirements and reviews of project documentation. Supervision efforts regarding
environmental and social issues involved joint missions and aide-memoires. In cases where it was
advantageous to have specialists of one of the banks in the field, there was effective exchange among the
mission objectives and arrangements and review of its outcomes. Bank supervision missions included all
stretches of the pipeline in both countries.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 With respect to sustainability, the project is rated Highly Likely. The project has been the
key factor in opening the Brazilian gas sector to private capital, and is already firmly recognized
as foundation for the creation of an integrated gas market in the Southern Cone countries of
Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Uruguay. It is highly likely that the achievements of the
project will be sustained, the rationale for this conclusion being: (i) the dramatic sevenfold
increase in the level of Bolivian gas reserves since 1997, with sufficient of these reserves already
committed for export through the TBG pipeline up to its maximum capacity under firm
transportation contract between PETROBRAS and TBG; (ii) the large unsatisfied potential
market for natural gas in SSE Brazil over and above the maximum capacity of the pipeline for
power generation and industrial use; (iii) the realization that additional transport capacity has
- 25 -



already become a requirement for incremental exports of gas from Bolivia to Brazil, to the extent
that private sector companies as well as TBG are actively examining options for creating such
new transport capacity; (iv) the very high investments already made and committed in gas
distribution and transmission by the private sector, and (v) the concrete progress in creating the
institutions (notably the ANP) and the regulatory framework (arbitration mechanisms, secondary
regulations, etc.) for Brazil.
6.1.2 The price competitiveness of Bolivian gas delivered to the Brazilian market is also an
important factor in assessing the sustainability of the project. The gas price in Brazil is made up of
the gas price at Santa Cruz (linked to the international prices of a basket of petroleum products
and therefore the world price of crude oil) plus the fixed cost of the pipeline, plus the cost of
distributing the gas to the final consumer. At appraisal, the economic and financial viability of the
project was predicated on a gas price at Santa Cruz of US$1. 1/MMBtu corresponding to a crude
oil price of US$18/barrel, for volumes supplied under the TCQ which were destined for the
industrial sector in Brazil. For volumes supplied under the TCO and destined for the power
sector, the gas price at Santa Cruz was assumed at US$1.45/MMBtu, to reflect additional
transportation costs in the event that gas would have to be imported from Argentina should
Bolivian reserves prove inadequate. To this was added the cost of transportation through the
pipeline, plus the cost of an industrial distribution network for gas supplied under the TCQ, or the
cost of a gas supply line to a power plant for gas supplied under the TCO. Gas under the TCQ
was destined to displace mainly petroleum products with prices based on a crude price of
US$18/barrel (prevailing prices of petroleum products in Sao Paulo were US$3.2/MMBtu for
high-sulphur fuel oil, US$3.9/MMBtu for low-sulphur fuel oil, and US$10/MMBtu for LPG).
Gas under the TCO for the power market would have to be competitive at US$3.4/MMBtu,
which was the netback value of gas based on the marginal cost for power generation expansion in
SSE Brazil of US$40/MWh prevailing at the time of appraisal.
6.1.3 As noted in 6.1.1 above, much larger volumes of gas have become available from Bolivia
than assumed at appraisal, and much larger gas volumes have been contracted for transportation
by TBG. Also, while the gas supply agreement specifies the same TCQ base price as assumed at
appraisal, the TCO  and TCX   base prices are lower than assumed at appraisal, being
US$1.2/MMBtu rather than US$1.45/MMBtu. This means that the average base price of Bolivian
gas is lower than assumed at appraisal. Today, crude oil prices have  increased to
US$28-30/barrel, and actual gas price at Santa Cruz has risen accordingly from US$1.1/MMBtu
in 1999, to US$1.8/MMBtu today. Also, the prices of petroleum fuels in the Brazilian market
(fuel oil and LPG) have risen similarly. Because the fixed costs of pipeline transportation and
distribution represent a major part of the final gas price of Bolivian gas delivered to the Brazilian
market, and these fixed costs are independent of the crude oil price, a higher crude oil price tends
to increase the economic and financial sustainability of the project with respect to displacement of
petroleum products. In the longer term however, it is unlikely that the current high crude oil
prices will remain, and the forecasts of the Bank and other credible institutions indicate these
prices will again fall to the US$20-25/barrel range, but not fall back as low as US$1 8/barrel. This
would suggest a retention in the advantage in the sustainability of the project compared to
appraisal. The increased throughput volumes will also reinforce the project's sustainability
through moderation of the average transport tariffs.
- 26 -



6.1.4 As for gas use in power generation, the marginal cost for power generation expansion has
not changed since appraisal, and gas can still be supplied to the power sector at or below the
netback value (US$3.4/MMBtu) even under today's high oil prices (e.g. current transport tariffs
from Santa Cruz to Sao Paulo are around US$1/MMBtu, plus US$1.8/MMBtu for gas at Santa
Cruz, plus US$0.15/MMBtu for the distribution margin). In the long term, when crude oil price
reaches US$20-25 per barrel, the price of gas at Santa Cruz will fall to about US$1.4/MMBtu,
and should comfortably allow gas to achieve sustainable use as a fuel for power generation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 After the start of the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline project by PETROBRAS on the Brazilian
side, TBG was established and took over the project in full control of its regular operations (see
4.5.2 and 7.4.1)
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank's performance in the lending phase is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The Bank
responded quickly to the government of Brazil's request for support, and took a critical role
among other lenders (IADB, CAF and EIB) to ensure that through its participation the project
would move forward. The Bank team integrated closely with the IADB team, carrying out joint
preparation and appraisal missions to lessen the burden on the Borrower. Loan negotiation was
carried out in parallel with IADB with excellent exchange of information to ensure consistency
between the legal documents. During project preparation, the Bank team provided a gas sector
specialist to the IADB, to help IADB carry out its project appraisal, and made available to EIB
the basic analyses prepared for the appraisal to help EIB expedite its internal processing. The
Bank, IADB and CAF teams worked very closely to the mutual benefit of each party to put
together with the Borrower a comprehensive EMP covering both countries under the same basic
criteria. As per the PAD, the Bank team took 9 months to prepare the project from the formal
identification mission, notwithstanding the delicate issues worked out with the Brazilian
Government on the reform of the hydrocarbons sector, the complex environmental and social
requirements of the project, the laborious assessment whether the project should be completely
executed and financed by the private sector, the definition of a possible role for IFC in the project
(including support to the Bolivian side)'", and the appropriateness of the use of the guarantee
program.This short preparation time for such a complex project benefitted from a long exchange
of information and positions between the Bank and the government of Brazil and PETROBRAS,
as well among the financiers, before the formal identification mission.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 The Bank's performance in the supervision is rated as Satisfactory. This has been the
Quality Assessment Group (QAG) rating and can be attributed to a lack of a better and readily
available documentation of all the work done in the project files and also on a thorough follow-up
on the indicators contained in Annex 1 of the PAD. Given the resource constraints, the Bank
supervision was very effective and proactive on the most delicate issues of the project
- 27 -



implementation, especially the environmental and social concerns and the bidding process for the
construction of the southern leg and the follow-up on the execution of the contracts. It is worth
noting that while the loan was signed in December 1998, the Bank's supervision started along
with IADB as the construction works were launched for the Bolivian and the Brazilian trunkline
in late 1997. Bank's participation in the design of the bidding process for the southern leg was
critical to ensure that the execution could be done either by one firm or by a combination of up to
five firms (one per spread) in accordance to the pre-qualification and the least cost price for the
borrower. This was fundamental in ensuring a wide array of finns and consortia, which proved to
be rather useful later on. Also, on the policy letter side the Bank kept a constructive dialogue with
the Brazilian government on the delivery of their commitments. The particular issues of change in
TBG's  majority ownership and the simplification of the gas pricing for the emergency
thermoelectric program (see 4.2.3.10 and 4.2.3.6) have been handled with realism by the Bank
supervision, by understanding the constraints and motivations on the part of the Government and
pursuing the final solutions when all required conditions are in place.
7.2.2  Supervision of environmental and social aspects of the project to ensure adherence to the
agreed EMP was particularly challenging due to the complex nature of the issues and also because
while the pipeline crosses Bolivia and Brazil, the lending  relationship is with Brazil."'
Supervision was effective in ensuring compliance with the identified social objectives, including
social compensation plans, IPDPs, social communications, and civil society participation
mechanisms. Similarly, the supervision of the ecological compensation components, which have
been defined in detail with participation of the interested stakeholders during supervision, and
adherence of the construction techniques and execution to the safeguards established in the EMP
has been equally effective and facilitated by the progressively positive attitude of SEGEN and
later TBG. A key feature of the supervision of the environmental and social concerns was the
continuous dialogue and exchange of information between the local communities and civil society
representatives with the environmental inspectors, environmental auditor, ombudsperson and the
Bank supervision team. This process allowed a growing understanding of the concerns of each of
the stakeholders, the identification of new issues, better monitoring of the performance of social
compensation programs in the field and, more importantly, an improvement of the environmental
inspection/monitoring system, which resulted in a better definition of roles and functions for the
contractor environmental field inspectors, the environmental inspection team and management
unit independent from the contractor, and the independent environmental Auditor and
Ombudsperson.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 The overall Bank performance is considered Highly Satisfactory as both its project
preparation and supervision (in all that mattered most for the achievement of highly important
goals for this complex project) are deemed to contribute to such performance.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 In this context, Borrower is considered not only TBG, but also PETROBRAS before TBG
was formed and effectively took over the project. The Borrower's performance during preparation
- 28 -



is considered Highly Satisfactory. Initially an experienced team was formed which would be the
core of the PETROBRAS subsidiary for gas business. Following PETROBRAS decision to carry
out the project as a public-private undertaking, a selected group of professionals from the private
sponsors joined the team. Also as part of the project arrangements, SEGEN was called to be in
charge of project design and procurement. The project also had an oversight Committee
integrated by all sponsors that would take the key decisions for the project, even though legal
responsibilities for most of the actions rested with PETROBRAS until TBG was solidly
established. The Borrower had a very positive attitude in dealing with the Bank requests (ointly
with IADB and CAF), being noteworthy the examination of a possible participation from IFC in
the project funding and the total re-doing of the voluminous EA and the EMP initially presented
to the MLAs. For the latter, it had to hire new consultants and re-focus the Brazilian and Bolivian
segments to reflect more clearly the MLA guideline requirements and using common criteria for
both sides as if it were a single project from Santa Cruz to Porto Alegre. It has been extremely
positive the hiring of a financial advisor (a first-class commercial bank) by PETROBRAS to work
on the financing aspects of the project and give it enough freedom to interact with the MLAs on
the basis of the financial computer modelling developed for the project. The cross-ownership in
the two national transportation companies has also been a positive contributing factor to the
Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project, given that the MLA borrowing by
Brazil had to consider the developments on the Bolivian side. In this respect, the drive by
PETROBRAS to assume the EMP execution in Bolivia and being responsible for the
construction and financing of the Bolivian segment of the pipeline permitted to address these
pending issues that could compromise the project's consideration for MLA financing.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The government of Brazil performance is considered Satisfactory. The government
remained committed to the project throughout the implementation, and has succeeded in
implementing the key commitments specified in the policy letter to the Bank (see 4.2.3). It is
notable that it supported the private participation in the ownership of the project, before the
amendment of the Constitution and passage of the Hydrocarbon Law, against a few legal
opinions that considered it illegal and facing an active political opposition, including from the
unions in general and from the PETROBRAS workers' association. Despite a few episodes of
price control of the gasoline, the Government was also able to sustain the liberalization of fuel
pricing during the serious financial crisis which impacted Brazil during 1999, with the sharp
devaluation of the real. The extension of the PPE was not favorable to establishing a full fledged
market for fuels. Also, the setting of a common price for gas for thermoelectric generation,
independent of the location of its off-taking, was a setback in the movement towards prices that
reflect economic signals to investors. On the transfer of the majority ownership of TBG out of the
Government control, the government maintained a sensible position of being favorable to it but
choosing the right time and conditions for making such transfer commercially attractive or even
as an element of its overall strategy for selectively enhancing private participation in the
hydrocarbon sector. Through its authorization, GasPetro outlined the plan to the Bank for such
divestiture.
- 29 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 The perfornance of the implementing agency (TBG) is rated as Satisfactory. TBG
exhibited strong skills in the preparation and implementation of the project's physical components,
and in working with SEGEN, the project management contractor and before that the
representative of PETROBRAS as owner of the undertaking. This has resulted in a solid project
with high physical, environmental, financial and institutional integrity. Cooperation with and
coordination with the Bank were undertaken in a competent and reliable manner. It is particularly
noteworthy SEGEN's arrangements for the procurement of the southern leg construction and the
openness and professionalism that underscored its handling of the bidding document preparation
and the pre-qualification and contract award process.Other SEGEN's important interventions
were in the adjustment of the construction technique for crossing the Pantanal with minimum
interference on the environment and the additional engineering work for the extremely challenging
construction of the Mata Atlantica tunnel and the close supervision of the financial conditions and
timeliness of the contractors. The latter was. fundamental to detect the need to replace one
contractor in the southern leg to seek the termination of the mechanical construction within the
initial contract (tight) schedule. SEGEN has however informed the Bank of the finalized
contractual arrangements after the fact (based on its own interpretation of the Bank guidelines)
which impeded the Bank of giving its clearance for financing the revised contracts (this has had no
adverse effect on the full disbursement of the loan as the unrevised contracts allowed full use of
the loan with a simple adjustment in the financing share of the eligible invoices). Notwithstanding
SEGEN's competent performance on the construction of the trunkline (before the establishment of
TBG), the role of the environmental inspection team was not initially clear for the contractor
(especially in the Bolivian side construction ) bringing about some friction. The Bolivian side used
some local subcontractors which were not prepared for the kind of complexities of the supervision
scheme and extreme care with the environment. While this has been resolved once the Bank
called SEGEN's attention to the problem, it could have been possibly avoided if the reporting
requirements among different actors in the field as well as a conflict resolution mechanism for
resolving differences of opinions regarding environmental compliance by contractors had been
explicitly defined by SEGEN before the beginning of construction. The disbursement of the loan
by TBG could have been more efficient (see 5.4.5).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  As the Borrower, TBG's overall performance (which includes PETROBRAS/SEGEN) is
rated as Highly Satisfactory considering the combined value of its performance in preparation
and implementation. Despite some remarks on the latter, it was very effective in the fundamental
aspects required for implementing a rather complex project, in a tight schedule and within budget,
without cutting corners on the laborious and multi-dimensional EMP. It is also important to note
that the Borrower's performance has permitted the loan be closed without any extension, despite
the fact that closing date was set three years after Board approval. The Borrower has set a very
high standard for future interventions in the area of large infrastructure projects, whether financed
by the Bank or any MLA.
End-notes for this chapter:
IIFC decided not to participate in the funding of the project.
121 The project relied on commitments from PETROBRAS reflected on the legal agreements and the dialogue
- 30-



with the project sponsors (common to both Brazil and Bolivia segments) and the Bolivian Govemment to
obtain their approval for the Bank team to supervise the Bolivian side of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Value added through Bank involvement: This project clearly demonstrates the high value
added brought by the Bank in such a complex public-private infrastructure project involving a
whole spectrum of risks - political, regulatory, environmental, and social, while being important
for regional economic development and integration. It also demonstrates that the Bank can
manage well the risks and challenges posed by such high-profile projects. The challenges arose
from the cross-boundary nature of the project involving asymmetries in size of the economy, gas
consumption & production, and different regulatory frameworks; the need to bring in private
participation in an innovative manner and the use of novel financial instruments; and finally
putting together a comprehensive environmental protection and social compensation program in
the two countries. The supervision of the Bank ensured that the complex environmental and social
component of the project  was implemented as designed. Throughout preparation and
implementation, the Bank played a critical role in bringing together the efforts of other
multilaterals. The project has also facilitated the dialogue with the Brazilian Government on
important structural changes and price mechanisms in the hydrocarbon sector. This demonstrable
added value clearly has applicability to other large and complex (national or cross-border)
infrastructure projects, which would also benefit from the Bank's involvement.
8.2 Lessons derived from project concept
3   Cross-border ownership: This was a cross-border project, where all project sponsors had an
equity stake in the pipeline transport company in both Bolivia and Brazil. During project
design, preparation, and construction, the key issues were tackled through technical,
environmental, financial and market committees comprised of experts provided by all the
sponsors. This helped greatly in harmonizing the design and construction of the pipeline
between Bolivia and Brazil, and is perceived to have contributed substantially to the timely
construction and commissioning of the pipeline. This type of cross-ownership should similarly
benefit other cross-border infrastructure projects.
*   Policy letter: The loan covenants, including conditions of effectiveness, were focussed on
achieving highly specific project-related objectives concerning environmental, social, and
transport contract obligations. As far as sector reform objectives were concerned, these were
described in a policy letter sent by the government of Brazil to the Bank, which was included
in the PAD, and referred to in the legal documents without explicit detailing of its contents.
The government therefore had full "ownership" of the policy reforms from the outset, and the
policy reforms were considered to be the government's and not the Bank's. The policy letter
also set mechanisms for review of the reform progress between the government and the Bank,
and the presentation by the Government to the Bank of a plan for transferring the majority of
TBG ownership out of its control."' The use of the policy letter approach, including
mechanisms for joint review, to implement difficult sector reforms, rather than agreeing on a
- 31 -



set of rigid conditionalities, is a modem approach which should have applicability to other
Bank financed projects.
*   Availability of uncommitted transport capacity for third party access: A key objective of
the project was to provide third party access to gas pipelines in Brazil, and therefore facilitate
access of other suppliers besides PETROBRAS to the market. With this objective in mind, the
government's policy letter stipulated that the upside capacity of the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline
(which then was not contracted by PETROBRAS) should be available for use by third parties.
While PETROBRAS has eventually contracted the remaining firm capacity, with full
understanding of its partners in TBG (all them forming the pool of large players in the gas
sector in Brazil), later developments led the regulator to rule that two of these partners, at
their request, will be permnitted to use an available capacity. This capacity would be idle for
some time regardless of the PETROBRAS transportation contracts with TBG. While the
regulator's ruling eventually achieved the spirit of the objective stated in the policy letter, for
other large natural gas and infrastructure projects, a lesson learned is that it is important to
secure the first tranche of transport capacity for the first contracts (to ensure the undertaking's
financial feasibility), but ensure that at least some uncommitted upside capacity be available
for use by third parties and will be auctioned according to criteria set by the regulator.
8.3 Lessons derived from construction
e Flexibility and least price objectives for construction procurement: A lesson learned on
the construction procurement has to do with the best way to ensure low price and flexibility,
at the same time as it offers a level playing field for contractors of different national origins,
experience and financial strength. This was achieved for the southern leg with a long distance
of 1,250 km by dividing it into five spreads of approximately 250 km, with different degrees
of difficulties to make them also amenable to second-tier contractors (by excluding complex
tunnel excavation in rock or long river crossings - which would then need to be executed
separately by highly specialized contractors). The pre-qualification criteria would permit that
a small contractor would be eligible for one certain spread and one large contractor for the
execution of the whole southern leg. The pre-qualified companies would then offer specific
prices for each spread for which it was eligible, and discounts for combinations of spreads.
The award would be to the combination of proposals that would yield the least price for the
Owner. If the award were to a single contractor, it was reasoned that such a large contractor
would be capable to execute the contract (not exceedingly large for its technical and financial
strength) within expected quality, price, and time. On the other hand, if the contracts were
distributed among a few contractors, then if one of these contractors should get into problems
during execution, there would be other contractors in the field that could support or replace
partially or totally the faulty contractor. 8
- 32 -



*  Environmental inspection of construction: On this subject, an important lesson learned
from the experience of adjusting procedures as the project needs evolve, is that environmental
compliance by contractors, and overall environmental management during construction, can
be improved if the environmental inspectors have authority to: (i) require contractors to make
immediate environmental improvements in cases of documented non-compliance with the
EMP, environmental laws, or other accepted environmental norms (subject to appeal by the
contractor to a higher and desirably agile instance, say a kind of Environmental Committee);
and (ii) suspend construction work in cases of any very serious environmental problems or
egregious non-compliance by the contractor, according to a pre-defined list of infractions or
events which could trigger suspension.
*  ROW access control: A lesson learned from the Bolivian side is that the government and the
transportation company (GTB) may desire to keep the ROW passable by military and other
regular vehicles, for a variety of reasons.  This is of considerable concern from an
environmental and social standpoint in the case of Bolivia, due to the risks of new settlement,
logging, illegal hunting, and other disturbances over an extensive and still mostly natural area
within the ROW's area of influence. Although the EMP indicated that the ROW should not be
maintained as a road during or following construction (which allowed an active Bank
supervision team to avert this misuse and its consequences), given the sensitive issue
involved, it seems advisable in cases with the characteristics of the Bolivian ROW (not
applicable to the Brazilian segment for instance) that an explicit agreement about the
non-transitability of the ROW (and the control of traffic that might enter the ROW from side
roads) be ideally reached with the government involved prior to Board presentation.
8.4 Lessons derived from the environmental and social programs
*  Independent environmental&social auditing and ombudsperson functions: Another key
lesson from the project is the need to have both an independent auditor and an ombudsperson
as these should have different functions regarding the monitoring of social and environmental
compensation and mitigation programs and the protection of individual and community rights,
as well as proactively interact with NGOs and communities. In addition, environmental audit
of works under construction requires a set of terms of reference different from a conventional
environmental audit for an already operational project. Initially there was an independent
environmental auditor, which was already an important advancement in terms of effective
monitoring of the EMP. The terms of reference for the environmental auditor included
interaction with stakeholders, NGOs and communities along the pipeline ROW. However,
very soon it became apparent that this role of "ombudsman" involving social responsibilities,
including social communication, required quite different professional skills than an
environmental auditor usually has. This dual role for the auditor did not contribute to
advancing dialogue among stakeholders, project sponsors and financing institutions. Once this
issue was clearly identified, these two roles were separated and an ombudsperson was hired to
deal with social concerns.
*  Civil society participation: Participation of civil society in the design, imnplementation and
monitoring of the environmental and social mitigation and compensation programs is a rather
- 33 -



valuable lesson learned out of the project. The proper involvement of civil society is essential
for having an early identification and involvement of all relevant stakeholders. A project may
possibly start with the more visible, formal organizations such as local governments, NGOs
and some local community organizations. As the project evolves, new actors have to be
considered, particularly at the local level. Otherwise, conflict is bound to develop and the
dialogue becomes emotionally charged, starting from biased positions. In addition, clear
participation mechanisms are essential, including proper accountability of the representatives
and resources to support the participation of groups that cannot afford to participate.
* Definition of social impacts: The identification of social impacts is an area of research that
would benefit future operations through improvement of knowledge and standardization. It is
important to have standard definitions when identifying those impacts, and criteria for setting
the appropriate compensations for such impacts, based on their magnitude and the
vulnerability of the groups exposed or affected. In the process of identifying potential or
direct impacts caused by the infrastructure to be implemented, local communities may
sometimes fail to differentiate between such a legitimate impact and an existing social demand
not answered by the local and/or national government. This situation leads the project
sponsors in some instances to respond to claims that have no relation with the project in an
attempt to avoid social conflict or to use them to divert the attention from real project impacts
and related mitigation measures.
* Negotiation process and transparency: A lesson coming from the experience of designing
appropriate community-specific compensation and mitigation plans, is that such design
requires not only the identification of the potential project impacts, but also clear rules to
negotiate. Local communities and project sponsors need to have a clear procedure to
negotiate the magnitude and scope of the compensation and mitigation programs. It is
deemed essential to have a third party with the right technical expertise in order to provide
both sides with the appropriate assessment criteria. Also, it is important to have a clear
timetable established for consultation with the affected populations that includes all relevant
stakeholders. As project sponsors and government authorities become more aware of the
benefits of wide consultation, they accept to modify, for instance, socioeconomic
compensation programs to reflect more appropriately the views of the directly affected
populations. In order to have a proper negotiation process and an effective civil society
participation, all relevant information should be made available in a timely and accessible
manner.   Multiple information dissemination mechanisms developed by project sponsors
evolved even further as a result of civil society participation.  The initial high tech
dissemination methods used (internet and promotional videos) were complemented by less
sophisticated methods such as radio, hotlines, brochures, and face to face communication.
Face to face communication (local town meetings) was particularly effective. The active
participation of the ombudperson may be critical to achieve a good communication and
understanding among all interested stakeholders, including project sponsors, and avert
emotional and inconsequential debates.
- 34 -



End-notes for this chapter:
[1/J
The extent to which the Govermment has implemented the policy reforms is impressive, especially under the
pressure of the major financial crisis and the devaluation of the Real occurred in 1999, midway through the
construction of the pipeline.
[2/ Construction of the southem leg was awarded to three contractors. Due to low performance (financial and
managerial problems) of one contractor in two of the spreads, SEGEN/TBG reforTnulated the contracts for
these two spreads assigning a shorter length to the low performance contractor for completion and splitting the
remainder among other contractors or sub-contractors that have been working in the pipeline. This prompt
action allowed construction of the southern leg to be kept reasonably well on schedule and within budget.
[3] This usually happens because one party thinks that the other is hiding vital information and the other party
may very well think that such information is irrelevant. This can be illustrated by two cases: i) the use of small
amounts of explosives in the Pantanal during opening of the trenches; this did not have any relevant
repercussion on the environment, however the owner did not previously publicize it, as it understood to be a
standard practice, albeit potentially sensitive in terms of public opinion as many other matters concerning the
Pantanal; and ii) the disclosing of the contractors' insurance coverage, that the contractors felt that the full
disclosing would be impertinent, but on the other hand a prompt information of the coverage provided to the
local population would be of clear interest to them and should not be harmful in any way to the contractors.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments Received from TBG (Borrower)
1.     Introduction
The Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline is a 3,150 kilometer long pipeline, consisting of a 557 kilometer
portion from Rio Grande, Bolivia to the Bolivia-Brazil border, owned and operated by Gas
TransBoliviano, S.A. ("GTB"), and the TBG Pipeline. It links the rich gas resources in Bolivia
with the industrial demand centers in southeastern Brazil, thereby fulfilling a 50-year vision of the
two countries to exploit and utilize the abundant Bolivian gas resources. For Bolivia, the
Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline provides the opportunity to monetize the gas resources for
much-needed hard currency.  For Brazil, natural gas represents an environmentally preferable
energy source to replace fuel oil, rain forest timber and hydroelectric generation. The
Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline benefits from the highest level of support from both the Brazilian and
Bolivian governnents, and the participation of YPFB, PETROBRAS, El Paso, Enron, Shell, BG
and TotalFinaElf. In addition, domestic and international development institutions such as Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social, the Brazilian Development Bank and the
Multilateral Lending Institutions, of which the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development - World Bank forms a part, have provided significant financial resources as have
various export credit agencies and equipment vendors.
2.     Technical
2.1    Infrastructure Description
The project definition stipulated the construction of a 32 inch, 100 bar pipeline from Rio Grande
in Bolivia to Campinas (PETROBRAS REPLAN Refinery), Sao Paulo in Brazil. From Campinas,
two branch line extensions were considered. The first branch line comprised a 24 inch, 75 bar
branch line from Campinas to Guararema in Sao Paulo, to link into the PETROBRAS Rio - Sao
- 35 -



Paulo line through an interconnect measurement station. The second branch line, envisaged
between Campinas to Porto Alegre, comprised a 24 inch, 100 bar extension as far as Araucaria,
followed by successive sections of 20 inch, 75 bar, 18 inch, 75 bar and 16 inch, 75 bar to reach
Porto Alegre.
Construction phasing for the pipeline was predicated on a projected market ramp-up, over 7 years
as outlined under Commercial Aspects below. Under this scenario, full infrastructure build out
was contained within four construction phases as outlined below.
2.2   Basic Project
2.2.1 Phase I - Northern Trunk line
Physical implementation of the project was accomplished satisfactorily and completed per the
design and technical specifications presented in the bidding documents, as well as those
documents annexed to the finance contract.
2.2.2 Phase 2 - Southern Trunk line
The southern trunkline, from Paulinia, SP to Canoas, RS also was completed satisfactorily and
within the original design and specifications. On this leg of the pipeline, there were sections of
24, 20, 18 and 16 inch pipe extending approximately 1 ,165 kilometers, as well as two compressor
stations, one at Araucaria, PR and the second one at Biguacu, SC built per the original project. In
addition, the pipeline (the 16 inch portion) traverses through a 780 meter long tunnel and then
vertically 325 meter, before appearing on the Serra de Aparados plateau at the state borders of
the Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. Several city gates (24) were also constructed in
accordance with the project's original design.
2.2.3 Project Implementation
Delivery of gas at the eastern most point (Guararema, SP) of the northern trunkline had been
originally forecasted to arrive by mid-December 1998. However, due to a combination of
difficulties, among those principally being the unforeseen strike and slow down in the customs
agency, as well as excessive rains due to "El Nifno" pushed final construction completion and
begin of purge into March 1999 (3/17/99). The purge process took one week and finished on
23/03/00 from the border to Campinas. One additional item delaying the deliveries to the
Guararema area were caused by the shipper's (Bolivian side) own delays. The commercial
delivery started on June 1999.
Delivery of gas at the southern most point (Canoas, RS) of the southern trunkline was originally
scheduled to arrive in December 1999. Similar circumstances to those confronted on the northern
trunkline were also encountered. Unforeseen strikes and slow downs within the customs agency,
excessive rains, the lack of heavy equipment (e.g., side-booms, etc.) which were tied up on the
northern trunk line, plus serious difficulties with the ICA/CPC/ETESCO consortium responsible
for a total of 460 kilometers (2 of the 5 spreads along the southern trunlline). Serious delays
were incurred as a result of having to scale back (150 kilometers only) ICA's scope and
- 36 -



negotiating to contract other firms (e.g., Techint, Bueno, SDM, Geral, etc.) to conclude the
portion of the ICA scope remaining (3 10 kilometers). The purge process started on 10-March-00
and finished on March 15, 2000. First commercial delivery occurred on 28-March-00 on
Araucaria-CIC Citygate, the first ready to receive gas.
2.3   Expansion to Full Project Capacity
Two phases of capacity expansion were anticipated to meet the contract ramp-up defined in the
three transportation contracts signed at the beginning of the project. These are discussed below.
2.3.1 Phase 3 - Capacity Expansion to 30 MMcmd
Efforts are under way to expand the line to 30 MMcmd to meet revised demand profiles for gas
transportation. A full turn-key tender has been signed with a contractor to construct the first
three compressor stations needed for expansion to 24 MMcmd capacity. Preparations are under
way to establish contract and supply conditions for the remaining five compressor stations
required to reach 30 MMcmd capacity.
2.4   Pipeline Operability
While the full capacity of the pipeline is projected to be 30.08 MMcmd as defined in the various
contracts, in this initial phase of the project a maximum of 17.1 MMcmd of physical capacity is
available along the 1261 km northern leg between Corumba in Mato Grosso do Sul and Campinas
in Sao Paulo state. The Southern leg, between Campinas and Canoas in the state of Rio Grande
do Sul, has been constructed to its full project defined capacity of 6.5 MMcmd. A third branch
line, the Guararema leg, between Campinas and Guararema, servicing metropolitan Sao Paulo
offers a maximum capacity in this initial phase of the project of 9.0 MMcmd.
As mentioned earlier, to secure these capacities along each of the three branches, 42,000 hp of
gas turbine driven compression is operational along the northern leg and 7,800 hp of reciprocal
driven compression is operational along the southern leg. Delivery capacity along the length of
the pipeline amounts to 47 MMcmd through thirty four city gates. Twelve city gates with a total
delivery capacity of 28 MMcmd are located along the northern and Guararema legs while twenty
two city gates with a delivery capacity of 19 MMcmd are located along the southern leg.
The whole project was conceived to operate from a Central Control Room. This is achieved
through a fully integrated SCADA system, which is nearing completion. Currently, final
adjustments are under way to enable full remote operation of the compression to take place from
Rio. Since the beginning of the SCADA implementation, difficulties were encountered with the
software P-6009, contracted from Nuovo Pignone. This culminated in the substitution of this
software by Wonderware InTouch in June 2000.  Since then the pipeline has been fully
operational with the 100% contract load factors being achieved by June 2001.
- 37 -



2.5   Integrity
As far as the operational and structural integrity, the pipeline was constructed in line with the
Norm ASME 31.8. To complement the design and construction integrity levels of the pipeline,
TBG has invested in repair equipment which will secure a minimum risk of protracted service
interruptions in the event of an emergency.
2.6   Environmental Controls
A significant trigger for TBG's current approach to environmental management was provided by
the requirement of the World Bank to undertake a comprehensive social and environmental
management investment programme during the construction phase. The strong leadership of the
Bank on this issue is notable and has led to significant engagement by TBG of the stakeholders
impacted by the pipeline construction both during the construction phase and into the operations
phase.
2.7   Main Technical Issues Arising and Lessons to Be Learnt
With particular respect to the technical implementation phase of the project, there are two
contrasting issues to be presented. On the one side, the World Bank demands on environmental
issues have secured a clear focus by TBG to address and minimize the social and environmental
impact of the pipeline construction.  The positive engagement of the company with all
communities and environmental organizations has led to a smooth construction phase to the
project as well as ensuring a strong future focus on this governance issue.
By contrast, the rules on contracting and procurement, which conditioned TBG's eligibility for a
loan from the World Bank, created a number of difficulties in the southern leg construction.
Acceptance of the lowest international bid, without the ability to screen the bidders against project
implementation estimates made both by the private shareholders and by PETROBRAS led to
significant time delays in construction of the southern leg as well as loss of revenue. It is worth
further comment that the international bids received significantly undercut estimates of the various
banks for such construction endeavors. It would seem appropriate to incorporate cost bid
boundaries in the bid qualification process, since the composite of lowest bid with delay penalties
does not produce the desired effect of low cost and ontime delivery of the project.
3.    Economic and Financing
3.1   Project Financial Plan
In terns of the projected sources of funds projected by the multilateral agencies at the onset of the
project, related to the project costs, the full hard and soft costs for the project were projected to
come in between US$1.650 billion and US$1.719 billion.
- 38 -



Lender            IBRD   Sh'hldrs  EIB   IADB    CAF   Current
(1998)  (1998)  (1998)  (1998)  (1998)  (2000)
US$mln US$mln US$mln US$mln US$mln US$mln
MLI's                     690.00 1.038.00  690.00  694.23  694.23  690.00
On-lending                348.00           417.00  336.45  336.45  411.84
Shareholders              310.00  310.00  310.00                    329.00
668.86  668.86
TCO advanced payment      302.00  302.00  302.00  668.86  668.86  302.00
TOTAL                    1,650.00 1,650.00 1,719.00 1,699.54 1,699.54 1,732.84
The current estimate upon conclusion of the construction phase along with claims and final
account closure with PETROBRAS indicate that the full cost for the basic phase of the project
will amount to US$1.595 billion. Cost of implementation can thus be considered highly
satisfactory in relation to project projections.
Furthermore, while initial economic projections established total costs to achieve 30.08
MMcmd/day amounting to US$2.025 billion, the current forecast, establishes full project
implementation for around US$1.840 billion which should be considered highly satisfactory - but
must be matched against revenue loss in delayed market take-up.
3.2   Financing
TBG holds debt obligations to (i) the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank ("
IADB"), Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento ("CAF") and European Investment Bank ("EIB")
(collectively, "Multilateral Lending Institutions") pursuant to loan agreements entered into
between TBG and each such Multilateral Lending Institution (collectively, "MLI Financing
Agreements") and (ii) PETROBRAS in respect of export credit agency financing and supplier
financing made available to TBG for the TBG Pipeline pursuant to on-lending agreements entered
into by PETROBRAS and TBG (collectively, "On-Lending Agreements"). The company is
currently seeking to close a last line of credit from sophisticated North American investors in the
form of the World Bank Partial Credit Guarantee Notes. All such debt obligations are debt
obligations which are senior to the debt owed by TBG to its shareholders.
In general financing draw-downs occurred one year after construction start up, obliging private
shareholders to absorb initial construction costs while at the same time having to accept restrictive
and uncertain conditions for reimbursement as epitomized by the pledge account constraints. The
process of contract closure with the MLIs in general was protracted and marginal to satisfactory
The PCG notes product is an excellent instrument for a new company like TBG. However, the
procedures, guarantees and endorsements, (especially the counter guarantee required from the
government), needed to launch these notes on the market have left the company with high levels
of uncertainty in its near term financing capabilities.
3.3   Current Economic Premises
In evaluating the economics of the company today a number of issues prevail. Firstly, in terms of
the fiscal regime, the pipeline is being depreciated over 10 years as opposed to 20 years. This
- 39 -



results in high levels of trapped cash in the early years, which are subject to foreign exchange
dilution in periods of volatile exchange rate changes. While the project revenues are hedged in
the contracts, through an annual dollar indexation, the pledge account and total liabilities of the
company suffer from such exchange rate fluctuations. Furthermore such foreign exchange rate
movements, and the resulting income losses erode into the capital employed of the company to
the detriment of the debt to capital ratios. Such erosions could deter TBG from undertaking early
expansions incorporating additional debt in the near future unless a suitable mechanism is
deployed to mitigate this erosion.
To keep abreast of these changes, the original economic model offered by the project bankers -
CSFB has had to undergo two complete revisions, the latter of which incorporates the full impact
of local currency exchange rate fluctuations.
4.    Commercial
4.1   Project Commerciability
TBG's commerciability is predicated on three transportation contracts - the TCQ, TCO and TCX
contracts, with the TCQ contract providing the base load commerciality. Based on perceptions of
the market development in Brazil, these contracts have been defined ex-ante to ramp-up
progressively from 9.1 MMcmd in 2000 to 30.08 MMcmd in 2007. Since the market has not
opened out as planned, TBG has over the last two years engaged in negotiations with
PETROBRAS the shipper to adjust this ramp-up, without impacting on the company's bottom
line.
4.1.1 Supply
Owing to the privatizations of national industries in Bolivia and stimulated by the new
opportunities offered by exporting gas to Brazil, the supply side risk associated with the
transportation contracts have been mitigated, allowing TBG to consider capacity expansions. As
such this supply side comes in as highly satisfactory in relation to risk mitigation. This is
supported by the fact that Bolivia now boasts Total Proven, Probable and Possible reserves of
49.82 Tcf. (Source: DeGolyer & McNaughton, VPNC, YPFB)
4.1.2 Demand
Mainly due to the economic difficulties experienced in Brazil during 1999, the gas market in
Brazil has not developed at the pace that was originally anticipated at the time that the Brazil
Transportation Agreements were executed. As a result, PETROBRAS did not have customer
demand for gas at a sufficient level to utilize the volumes contracted for under the Brazil
Transportation Agreements on a ship-or-pay basis. Accordingly, during the past year, TBG and
PETROBRAS negotiated the Transportation Agreement Amendments, which, among other
things, altered the new ramp up schedule for TCX Capacity and a revised initiation date for the
use of TCO Capacity and TCX Capacity, in each case based on the revised expectations for
market development. Such negotiations were consistent with an agreement between TBG and
PETROBRAS entered into in 1998 which established that, within certain paramneters intended to
- 40 -



protect TBG from any material adverse impact, PETROBRAS and TBG would from time to time
revise the capacity amounts reserved under the Brazil TCX Transportation Agreement if required
by PETROBRAS. As a result of such negotiations, the capacity of the TBG Pipeline to be
utilized by PETROBRAS in 2000, 2001 and 2002 was reduced, while the capacity usage by
PETROBRAS for 2004, 2005 and 2006 was increased. The latter increase is mostly explained by
recent announcements in which the Ministry of Mines and Energy has stated that 49 new
thermoelectrical plants are currently planned or under construction in Brazil and forecasts that
natural gas consumption will represent 10% of primary energy consumption in Brazil by 2010.
PETROBRAS has ownership interests in 29 of those plants. Consequently, the demand side of
the equation has left TBG exposed in the early years, a situation which will be mitigated once the
proposed revisions are made.
4.2   Transport Contracts Relating to the Project
The Brazil Transportation Agreements, together with the Brazil TCO Funding Agreement,
constitute the primary revenue producing contracts for TBG in connection with the TBG Pipeline.
Collectively, upon the achievement of full ramp-up in 2003, the Brazil Transportation Agreements
will provide revenue for TBG in connection with the transportation on a firm basis of 30.08
MMcmd of gas, the design capacity of the TBG Pipeline, for delivery to PETROBRAS. In
addition, TBG may sell spare capacity under certain conditions or may construct and sell
additional capacity on the TBG Pipeline.
Nevertheless, a number of issues do arise in analyzing the workability of these contracts both
operationally and in the light of the regulatory initiatives that Brazil has undertaken to implement,
as per the World Bank Policy Initiative for Open Access. The main such issues to mention are:
4.2.1 Significant protection for the shipper for unforeseen events
4.2.1.] Dependency of operational start-ups on Bolivian construction performance
Both at the time of the northern and southern leg start-ups, while construction completion on the
Brazilian side had been achieved, delays on the Bolivian side led to a loss of revenue without
recourse for TBG.
4.2.1.2 Dependency of TCO and TCX "Ship or Pay" obligations on independent contract
negotiations between shippers and transporters on both sides of the border.
Both the TCO and TCX contracts held by TBG condition the contract commencement as of when
GTB on the Bolivian side is apt and ready to deliver the full contract capacity at the border. In
the absence of all party capacity negotiations this has led to different ramp-ups on both sides of
the border resulting systematically in loss of revenue for TBG. While good sense has prevailed
amongst all parties to mitigate these problems, particularly in view of the delayed demand for gas
in Brazil, such contract looseness does leave TBG contractually exposed.
4.2.1.3 Penalty Limits
- 41 -



A number of the penalty constraints defined in the TCQ, TCO and TCX contracts do not compare
with industry practices around the world and subject TBG to excessive penalty risk in the event of
system failure or failure to deliver gas. Of particular relevance is the ability of the shipper to pass
through fully all non-delivery penalties agreed with third parties in independent negotiations to
TBG. With respect to the Brazilian Priority Plan for Thermo-electricity Plants, these penalty
levels are related to the spot price of electricity without a cap.
4.2.2 Transport Tariff Structure
In terms of the transport tariff structure, the project has been implemented under a postalized rate,
while the direction adopted by the regulatory body, in line with the World Bank Policy Letter
considers distance-based rates. This dichotomy in view on transportation tariffs, juxtaposed with
issues of most favored nation to the existing shipper in the TCQ, TCX and TCO contracts has
effectively neutralized TBG's capacity to secure new transportation contracts with additional
shippers without the involvement of the regulator. As such, TBG is unable to offer distance rates
to new shippers as this distorts the market along the northern leg of the line offering price
advantage to new shippers, while at the same time impeding market development along the
southern leg of the line to the major industrial states of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do
Sul. Under the most favored nation clauses of TBG's contracts, the company is not able to offer
terms more favorable to other shippers without allowing the same to PETROBRAS as the main
shipper. As a result, TBG has incurred significant transaction costs during 2000 and 2001 in rate
cases with the regulatory body and the new shippers.
4.2.3 Non industry standard contract options
The two most notable contract flexibilities offered in the TCQ, TCO and TCX contracts include:
4.2.3.1 TCQ Flex
This facility offers the existing shipper PETROBRAS capacity flexibility during the week to
predetermined additional volurnes in line with the ramp-up. This has consequently frozen capacity
in the pipeline, which may or may not be used for the duration of the contracts along 20 years.
Consequently, TBG will retain up to 10% of capacity to address this need compared to allowing
for a 95% Ship or Pay condition, which prevails in industry contracts.
4.2.3.2 Non specifi cation of MDQs per city gate vs sum of MDQs
Currently, TBG offers its current shipper total flexibility to deliver gas in any one of the
thirty-four city gates along the length of the pipeline. This contrasts with industry practices,
which require maximum daily quantities to be identified for delivery at any city gate, the sum of
which constitutes the full contracted volume to be transported. Consequently, this has led to
inefficiencies in the investment profile for the company with redundant compression and city gate
capacity being available during the early years of the project and its consequent impact on the
tariff.
- 42 -



Consequently, as commercial contracts TBG's transportation contracts can be considered as
marginal to satisfactory instruments to meet the needs of the company as a transporter, within the
panorama of open access. However, should TBG be considered an operator for the capacities
being contracted by PETROBRAS and for providing flexibility to meet unknown demands of the
market, the contracts are satisfactory.
4.3   Competition
TBG acts as one of two pipelines importing gas from Bolivia - the other being GASMAT owned
by Enron and Shell and built to supply gas to the Cuiaba thermoelectric plant. That said, the two
lines do not compete for the same market since TBG's area of interest is focused on the South and
South Eastern markets of Brazil. New pipelines are currently under construction from Argentina
to Porto Alegre, but these lines are likely to connect with the TBG line in Porto Alegre, with TBG
providing onward passage for gas to the key markets of Sao Paulo and the south east. As such,
the company occupies a position of a natural monopoly in its area of influence.
The only scenario under which this situation may change is if TBG is unable to meet the demands
of the market and that the Brazilian regulations offer expansion opportunities to third parties.
This is currently under review by the regulatory body.
4.4   Commercial Learning Points and Issues
Clearly in a project of this size and encompassing the size of the risks involved, commercial design
and actual reality will not meet. As such, there has been a need to re-negotiate the transport
contracts even as construction was underway. To this extent, the debt structure and covenants
have provided an appropriate anchor to underpin basic governance and fiscal responsibility. By
contrast, as evidenced by the transportation contracts, obvious diversions from standard industry
practices to provide flexibility to the early shippers can impact on the company's autonomy to
meet its statutory role.
5.    Organizational and Sustainability
TBG, as a company to operate the pipeline, started up in 1998 with PETROBRAS supplying two
members of the executive directorate, with BBPP Holdings and the Transredes/Shell and Enron
Group supplying two additional members. During 1998, the company established its headquarters
in Rio de Janeiro, while at the same time establishing two division offices in Campo Grande and
Campinas. By the end of the year staffing levels in the company had reached 100. The corporate
activities during 1999 continued to focus on establishing an operating and administrative
infrastructure, including the implementation of SAP/R3 as an integrated corporate management
system. Staff levels increased through the year both in the TBG headquarters, but principally in
the divisions to meet first operations as of July 1999. Staff levels reached 134 by the end of that
year. Since 1999, TBG has entered into the early operating phase of the project, along with the
establishment of the company's third division in Florian6polis and the entry into full operation of
the pipeline, with deliveries of up to 9.1 MMcmd being made during the second part of the year.
Staff numbers climbed to 175 by the end of the year and have remained constant since. It has to
be commented that one of the key achievements of this early operating phase of the pipeline has
- 43 -



been the receipt by TBG of IS014001, IS09002 and BS8800 certification, issued by the
intemnational certification agency BVQi along with the Brazilian authority INMETRO, assuring
TBG's continued commitment beyond the construction period to the environment as well as the
safety and security of its operations.
5.1   Capital Structure of the Company
The capital stock of TBG is owned 51% by PETROBRAS Gas S.A.-Gaspetro ("Gaspetro"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of PETROBRAS; 29% by BBPP Holdings Ltda. ("BBPP"), a company
which in turn is owned by affiliates of El Paso, TotalFinaElf, and BG; 12% by Transredes do
Brasil Ltda. ("Transredes do Brasil"), a subsidiary of a consortium which in turn is owned by (i)
affiliates of Enron and Shell, (ii) Bolivian pension funds, (iii) private investment funds and (iv)
employees of Transredes S.A. - Transporte de Hidrocarburos Sociedad An6nima ("Transredes");
4% by ESAE-Empresa Sul Americana de Energia Ltda., an affiliate of Enron; and 4% Shell Gas
Transportadora do Brasil Ltda., an affiliate of Shell (collectively, including any predecessors in
interest, "Shareholders").
5.2   Legal Status
While TBG boasts a broad institutional investor base, comprising some of the major energy and
gas companies in the world, which contribute to TBG being defined as a "Sociedade An6nima",
the 51% participation of PETROBRAS effectively renders TBG a state owned company.
Consequently, all commercial, procurement, contracting and investment activities come under the
scrutiny of the various government institutions - the most relevant of which is the TCU (Tribunal
de Contas da Uniao).
The impact of this on TBG is that in all contracting and procurement activities, TBG is obliged to
submit for public tender all sizeable contract activities and is constrained from entering into
commercial alliances with suppliers. While this offers potential cost benefits, it considerably
reduces TBG's commercial agility - borne out as mentioned earlier by the 66 week period
required to tender compression construction contracts to achieve 24 MMcmd with three
additional compressor stations.
In addition to this, such state owned status impacts in TBG's financing agility for new projects in
that any long term debt requirements needs the prior approval of the Brazilian Senate . As
exemplified in the PCG Bond case, this requires significant pre preparation before such resources
become available to the company.
5.3   Structure and Governance
TBG has a 6-member Board of Directors, 5 of whom are nominated by Gaspetro and BBPP
(collectively, "BRAZ Group") and 1 of whom is nominated by Transredes, ESAE - Empresa Sul
Americana de Energia Ltda. and Shell Gas Transportadora do Brasil Ltda. (collectively, "BOLT
Group"). In the event the shareholdings of either the BOLT Group or the BRAZ Group fall
below a certain threshold, the Board of Directors, acting by majority vote, may nominate and
- 44 -



elect the Board members either group would otherwise be able to so nominate and elect. The
President of the Board of Directors is elected by majority vote of the Shareholders, and is granted
the tie-breaking vote in addition to his own vote as a member of the Board of Directors.
All corporate actions that require a vote of the Board of Directors, either as provided in TBG's
by-laws or as required by Brazilian law, are taken by a majority vote of the Board of Directors.
Unless otherwise required by Brazilian law, all corporate actions submitted to the Shareholders
for approval are taken by a majority vote of the Shareholders, except that the following actions
require a vote of at least 81% of the Shareholders: (i) any amendments to the by-laws of TBG,
and (ii) any transaction between TBG and a Shareholder, unless such transaction results from a
legal bidding process or is entered into on arms-length terms.
While the company operates under a matricial system related to processes, the organization is
structured on a functional basis with four executive directors heading up the main areas of
Operations and Technical, Commercial and Planning, Finance and Administration and overall
Corporate.
5.4   Competencies
Recruitment over the past three years has drawn key competencies from PETROBRAS and from
the private shareholders. In addition, the company has recruited and continues to recruit new
members of the company from the open market. These staff are employed by BBPP Holdings and
seconded on to TBG.
TBG has developed resources training programmnes in all related business areas of its business.
This programme encompasses professional conferences, technical and financial training and office
system training. Key users of SAP R/3 are being sent to the SAP academy for training to provide
the broad resource base for SAP R/3 migration, implementation and maintenance activities.
5.5   Systems IT
Since the company's inception in 1998, TBG has established a fully interconnected IT network
which operates both in the headquarters as well as between the three divisions. This network
allows the full operation of the company's integrated SAP R/3 system in all sectors as well as
basic office and communication tools. 50% of the IT hardware portfolio comprises desktop
systems and servers, while the remainder comprise transportable notebooks. Staff have the ability
to access the company's system remotely securing fully continuity independent of location. This
facility is provided with no onus to the employee by way of a call back facility.
In addition, full video conferencing facilities are at the disposal of all divisions with the
headquarters.
5.6   Business Controls
The business control framework for TBG has been developed in three discrete phases. All told
performance in this area can be considered internally as highly satisfactory. These are discussed
- 45 -



below.
5.6.1 SAP R/3 implementation
In 1998, TBG initiated a full implementation of SAP R/3 in the areas of Accounting (Module
CO), Treasury and Finance (FI), Plant Maintenance (PM), Materials and Services procurement
(MM), Sales and Distribution (SD) - linked to a separate gas management system fully linked to
the operations SCADA system. As a consequence of this implementation, basic business controls
and industry best practices were adopted.
Currently, plans have been approved to extend these controls to the management of human
resources, document management and annual budgeting.
5.6.2 Integrated Operations Management System
Following construction completion, TBG embarked upon a programme to set up a fully integrated
operations management system. Instead of undertaking this task in isolation, TBG elected to
mold the definition and management of operational, environmental and safety processes on the
requirements and frameworks offered by the ISO and BS certification awards. TBG undertook
this programme of process development in the course of 2000 and received in October full
IS014001, and ISO 9002 certification for environmental and quality standards as well as BS 8800
for safety and working standards. Today, TBG operates under these certificates and remains
eligible for 6 monthly audits.
5.6.3 National Quality Programme
The final phase to establish and define full business and governance controls on the company are
currently being conducted under the framework of the Brazilian National Quality award scheme.
This award, which parallels the Malcom Baldridge award in the United States of America, is being
used as the business management framework to establish the key corporate business controls
ranging from results, planning, client attention to knowledge management in the company. As
such all related indicators, processes and procedures and governance formalities are being
developed and registered.
6.    Political
6.1   Implementation of a Regulatory Structure
The "Portaria" ANP No. 169, of November 26, 1998 ("Regulation 169"), before being revoked,
had given force to certain provisions of Brazil's Hydrocarbon Law with respect to open access of
interested parties to existing gas transportation pipelines and facilities. Regulation 169 guaranteed
access to gas pipelines and facilities for any interested shipper that is willing to pay adequate
remuneration to the owner of such facilities. It established the procedures that transporters must
follow in order to offer available capacity (not contracted or under construction) in pipelines.
According to Regulation 169, a pipeline operator was required to inform the ANP and disclose
- 46 -



through the media the existence of available capacity and make such capacity available to the
customer offering the highest tariff. Regulation 169 also set rules for making available unused
contracted pipeline capacity on an interruptible basis, requiring, among other things, that 90% of
the revenues deriving from the commercialization of such capacity is to be passed back to the
original fimn shipper holding contractual rights to such capacity.
Furthermore, ANP has established guidelines that TBG and other gas transportation companies
are required to follow in deternining tariffs for transportation services. Specifically, such tariffs
are required to be non-discriminatory, cannot incorporate costs or subsidies from other shippers
and should reflect
(a) the type of services to be rendered (firm, non-firm or other);
(b) the term of the contract;
(c) the volumes to be transported;
(d) the distances between the receipt and delivery points; and
(e) applicable taxes.
With respect to the requirement concerning a distance-based tariff, it should be noted that the
postal" tariff for capacity under the Brazil TCQ Transportation Agreement is an exception to this
rule that was intended from the outset of the Bolivia-Brazil Pipeline project to promote a
homogeneous market development along the states crossed by the TBG Pipeline.
Additionally, the "Portaria" ANP No. 170, of November 26, 1998, establishes that the
construction and operation standards for any pipeline are subject to the approval of ANP and
require the approval, among other things, of IBAMA, the Brazilian environmental agency, which
issues both installation licenses and operating licenses for pipelines.  Such regulation also
establishes requirements applicable to pipeline operators relating to maintenance plans, quality
control systems and periodic certificates from an independent technical entity concerning the
safety and quality of pipeline installations.
However, as a result of a number of regulatory disputes arising during 2000 and 2001 between
TBG and new potential shippers, as outlined above, provoked in main by differences between
TBG's contractual terms with PETROBRAS and the directions adopted by the regulatory body,
Portaria 169 was revoked in April 2001 and a revised Portaria on Open Access made available for
public consultation. The public consultation closed in April and TBG awaits its forthcoming
publication. In essence, the new portaria seeks to reinforce changes to TBG's contracts with
PETROBRAS over the rest of the year as well as providing the terms and conditions for
transporters to offer an Open Season for capacity expansions.
7.    Conclusions and Lessons
* The project as a whole has to be considered to be highly satisfactory - borne by the lower
than estimated construction costs, commingled with marginal delays in timing.
*  The overall participation of the World Bank in the design, preparation and implementation of
the project has been exemplary. This is underscored in its Project documentation, which have
anchored all economic and financial considerations with respect to the project and further
endorsed by the continuous accompaniment by the World Bank of all aspects of the project
- 47 -



implementation.
*  The World Bank has provided strong leadership on environmental impact programmes that it
has required TBG to adopt during the construction, which have forced higher levels of social
engagement with various stakeholders along the pipeline.
*  Procurement rules under the World Bank guidelines, which require tenders to be awarded to
the lowest bidder in an international tender do not easily accommodate disqualification if the
submitted price is considered untenable based on project estimates made by the participating
shareholder companies.
*  While the project was conceived under a monopoly environment, the needs to provide
commercial contracts that address the transition from such a situation to a progressively
market driven framework have posed difficulties in their operability. Higher levels of
protection and flexibility embedded into the first shipper contracts exemplify these difficulties.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments received from IADB
1.    Basic Data and Project Objectives
1.1   Please see Annex 8.
I.    Project Design and Execution
2.1   The Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Integration Project deserves to rank as a model of
excellence in concept, design, quality of preparation and execution of a technically complex,
environmentally and institutionally challenging cross-border infrastructure project.
2.2   The project objectives were unambiguous and consistent with the Bank's Country
Program for Brazil for the 1996-98 period and the directives of the Eighth Replenishment of the
Bank's capital, emphasizing the modernization of the state, support for productive infrastructure,
the social sector and the environment by contributing to a reduction of the "Brazil Cost", regional
integration, incorporation of the private sector in the financing, construction, and operation of the
new installation, contributing to improvements in the quality of life in the affected regions through
the use of natural gas, as a more acceptable energy alternative, capable of reducing and correcting
already existing adverse environmental situations.
2.3   The project did not meet the characteristics of a loan operation in line with the
recommendation of document AB-1704 of the Eighth Replenishment with regard to poverty
alleviation, geographic focus, and the needs of women. On the other hand, a compelling case
could be made to demonstrate that the total development impact and benefits of the pipeline to all
segments of society, including the most disadvantaged of the population and women, both in
Brazil and Bolivia, once the system attains optimal use, will be greater, more pervasive and more
sustainable than those of projects designed to specifically address many of the unquestionable
needs in the social sectors.
- 48 -



2.4   The project design is noteworthy in its focus to contribute effectively to the advance of
economic and institutional reforms of Brazil's energy sector, the strengthening of the policy and
regulatory framework, the promotion of competition in line with Brazil's Hydrocarbon Law, and
the rigorous enforcement, during execution, of compliance with environmental measures, and not
least, the implementation of substantial ecological compensation investments.
2.5   Excellence in project design owes much to close cooperation between the World Bank,
the IDB, the other lenders, public and private sector entities, civil society, NGOs etc, in Brazil
and Bolivia throughout the preparation and analysis of this project. The result was an operation
that was not plagued by the flawed assumptions, poorly assessed risks, faulty cost estimates, or
unrealistic execution schedules that often characterize other investments of lesser magnitude and
complexity.
2.6   With regard to the execution of the project, the Bank modestly ranks it as "satisfactory" in
its periodic Project Perfornance Monitoring Report during execution, although in retrospect,
"highly satisfactory" would be a more appropriate rating.
2.7  International procurement, and contracting of civil works and equipment was done
expeditiously and concluded with the Bank's non-objection in July of 1997, to the two major civil
works contract with TECHINT S.A. and CAMARGO CORREA for the construction of the
Northern Leg of the pipeline, and the contracting of NUOVO PIGNONE MECCANICHE, in
December of 1997, for the supply and installation of the SCADA system to provide the
monitoring and control for the Brazilian portion of the pipeline.
2.8   Construction on the Corumba - Campinas segment was begun in October of 1997 and
substantially completed, 18 months later, by March of 1999. The bulk of Environmental
restoration work was completed in the course of the second semester of 1999, with additional
corrections of minor non-conformities and maintenance of previous environmental work, being
carried out throughout the following year
2.9   The IDB loan became eligible for disbursement on April 19, 1999, and was fully disbursed
in six direct payments (reimbursements) to the Borrower, over the 21 months period between
June 25, 1999 and March 30, 2001.
2.10  The excellent cooperation and dialog between lenders and the borrower and its agencies in
evidence during project preparation also characterized the entire execution process, involving
many new players such as contractors, consulting firms, committees, environmental and financial
auditors, beneficiaries of ecological compensation, etc.
2.11  In retrospect, the Bolivia-Brazil Gas pipeline project unquestionably stands out as a model
of excellence in environrental supervision, management and compensation. This is the result,
once again, of the painstaking effort during project preparation, more than two years of
environmental assessment studies by Brazil and Bolivia, as well as the result of responsive and
responsible supervision during execution.
- 49 -



2.12  Throughout project execution, the project counted with engineering and construction
supervision by SEGEN of the Engineering Department of PETROBRAS, the supervision of an
Environmental Committee of the Shareholders, the work of an international environmental
management consulting firm, an independent environmental auditor and the work of an
ombudswoman. In addition to environmental plans relating directly to the construction of the
pipeline, the project financed major ecological compensation programs in both Bolivia and Brazil,
which were successfully implemented.
2.13  The aforementioned efforts in the environmental area were appropriately recognized in
the 2001 International Association for Impact Assessment Award to GTB in Bolivia and TBG in
Brazil for excellence in environmental management and in the use of impact assessment in the
design and construction of the gas pipeline.
III.   Other Aspects
3.1   Our perception of the IDB's role in the Project:
(i)   The project was the first operation in which the Bank required the preparation of an
"evaluaci6n ambiental estrategica" for the entire project to assess the indirect long-term effects of
the operation. In addition, the Bolivia - Brazil Pipeline Project and the Eletrobras North-South
Electric Interconnection are two operations in which the Bank took the lead in insisting on ample
recognition of the role of civil society in project preparation and execution, moreover that the
executing agencies implement a comprehensive system of environmental monitoring and
supervision through the contracting of a qualified consulting firm and in both instances, of an
independent environmental auditor, subject to rigorous terms of reference and close  Bank
supervision of the quality of the work performed.
Thus, apart from the obvious benefit of the IDB's presence in the project as a major
co-lender, the Bank took a very strong position on all the environmental aspects of the project,
and counted with the full support of the IBRD in this critical endeavor.
(ii) The IDB also carried its full share of the load, together with the IBRD of the very
intensive institutional analyses, financial engineering, regulatory and policy analyses, sectoral
restructuring, and all other project preparation work, and thereby contributed significantly to the
success of this project.
(iii) Finally, but not least, Bank staff, both at Head office and in the Country Office in Brazil
took a very active role during the execution of the Project, with inspections of civil works, joint
administrative missions, review of countless technical and financial reports, close supervision of
the complex environmental arrangements, and administration of the loan contract.
3.2  IDB/IBRD Relations
As already indicated previously, on the whole, there was very close cooperation between
- 50 -



the IDB and the World Bank throughout the entire process of project preparation and execution.
Despite the institutional and technical complexity of the project, there was no ambiguity about its
objectives and consequently, the very nature of the project itself provided the basis for consensus
building and clarity of focus in deciding upon and organizing the wide range of critical actions
necessary to implement the project successfully.
3.3   Policy Aspects, Gas Pricing, PETROBRAS, TBG, ANP, ANEEL, Government.
This is a large chapter about detours and delays, causes and effects, uncertainties, risk
management, business decisions, public policy, government and politics, however, it is not a
chapter with much to be said on what might have been done better in designing the more difficult,
abstract elements of the project. In this regard, the lenders' and borrower's perspective and
decisions during project design were appropriate and well focused.
On the other hand, once the pipeline was completed and became operational, the decisions
of gas transporters, regulators, and users were and continue to be more complex and fraught with
greater uncertainties than the decisions required to design and lay a pipeline between points A, B,
and C, or, for that matter, the decisions on repairing environmental damage caused during
construction. Therefore, observation and commentary are admissible in this chapter, criticism is
not, unless, of course one can offer better solutions that are concrete and workable and that are
not merely the product of speculation or hindsight.
Based upon all available information, including the margin of error about Bolivian natural
gas reserves, the Bolivia - Brazil gas transportation system is not only a bold physical,
environmental and financial engineering feat, but a sound investment that can be expected to fully
meet, if not exceed its planned objectives.
By all of our standards, this Project deserves a ranking of "Highly Satisfactory".
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 51 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
Level of Pnvate Investment in Brazil Gas                                      In addition to US$1.7 bn invested in Bol-Braz
Sector                                                                        gas pipeline, prvate sector has invested
US$1.5 - 2 bn in SSE downstream gas
sector (incl. sale of gas distribution
concessions). In 2001, investments in oil
and gas exploration and production
estimated at US$ 4.2 bn (70%
PETROBRAS: 30% private sector).
Investments in Bolivian Hydrocarbon Sector  US$2.1 billion                    From 1997 to 2000, private companies
invested US$1.9 bn in oil and gas upstream,
with a further US$ 0.5 bn committed for
2001. Also, US$0.26 bn was raised from the
sale of the oil and gas transport company to
pnvate investors.
Total Gas Consumption in Brazil                                               Total natural gas consumption in all Brazil
rose from 5.6 bcm/yr in 1997 to 6.5 bcm/yr
in 2000. Already contracted volumes from
Bolivia will increase consumption to at least
17 bcm/yr by 2007.
Level of Bolivian Gas Exports          160 bcm to Brazil over 20 year timeframe    196 bcm to Brazil over 20 year timeframe
based on updated contracted capacity of
Bol-Braz pipeline. Significant additional
exports are judged probable based on 700%
increase in Bolivian gas reserves and
potential market mainly in Brazil but also in
Argentna
Operation of Bolivia-Brazil pipeline based on  First actual case of open access reported.   The ANP authorized third party access by
open access for uncommitted capacity                                          two (non-PETROBRAS) shippers to the
pipeline April 2001. ANP open access
regulations for all gas pipelines were
introduced during 2000.
Adopt a formula to automatically adjust  Done, as reported in a previous PSR.  Ex-refinery prices of gasoline, LPG, diesel,
ex-refinery products in line with intemational                                fuel oil, aviation fuels were set to follow US
prces                                                                         Gulf prices since 1998.
Output Indicators:
Indicatod/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuaVLatest Estimate
Removal of cross subsidies in petroleum  Done, as reported in a previous PSR.  Distribution and resale margins of petroleum
products related to transport & distribution                                  products including fuel oil are free. The final
margins                                                                       prices of diesel are subject to prices cap,
and LPG subject to cap in remote regions.
Adopt distance based gas transport tariffs   Not fully met, as a single gas tariff was used  The TCX contract between PETROBRAS
for the Bol-Brazil pipeline for uncommitted   for the Emergency Thermoelectric Program. and TBG includes distance based
capacity above the TCQ                                                        transmission tariffs. A 2 year contract to
provide 2 MMcmd firm capacity using full
distance based tariffs signed between TBG
and British Gas May 2001.
Establish rational hydrocarbon fuels pricing   Done, as gas pricing is allowing the  An environmental tax requires a spedal law,
policy that takes account of environmental   displacement of high-sulfur fuel oil, as  which does not seem feasible in the near
considerations                         reported in a previous PSR.            future.
- 52 -



Reduction of the sulfur content of fuel oil in a                             PETROBRAS has initiated a project to
cost effective way                                                           reduce maximum sulfur content in fuel oil.
After ANP resolution No.80 PETROBRAS
has achieved reduction of sulfur content of
fuel oil from 5% to 4%.
Capacity of gas-fired power plants in                                        The Ministry of Mines and Energy has
construction or planning in SSE Brazil                                      identified 49 new priority thermal power
projects throughout Brazil for use with
natural gas (Portara 43 -25th Feb 2000). In
the SSE states, PETROBRAS is planning to
supply 10 plants with Bolivian and domestic
gas, requiring 15 MMcmd (about 4,000 MW)
in 2005 and 27 MMcmd (about 7,000 MW) in
2007.
First flow of gas to Sao Paulo by end 1998,  Reported in a previous PSR.     First flows to Sao Paulo achieved in July
and flow to Porto Alegre by end 1999.                                        1999, and to Porto Alegre in March 2000.
Ex-refinery prices of petroleum products in   Reported in a previous PSR, as per the  Ex-refinery prices of products (precos de
line with their import parity prices  Actual column.                         realiza,co) are at import parity, but onsale
prices (pre,os de faturamento) of diesel and
gasoline are maintained higher to subsidize
the alcohol program under the PPE. The
PPE will be retained until the end of 2001, in
agreement with the IMF.
Free imports and exports of petroleum  Reported in a previous PSR, as per the  Free imports of fuel oil and LPG have been
products                              Actual column.                         allowed since 1998. The imports of diesel
and gasoline will not be fully free until the
PPE mechanism is abandoned at the end of
2001, and a new tax is introduced.
Non-discriminatory access by independent   Non-discriminatory access reported in a  Non-discriminatory access regulations were
importers and exporters to storage and  previous PSR.                        introduced in 2000 for storage and marine
marine terminal facilities                                                  terminals. Exxon has contracted with
Transpetro to use several oil pipelines in the
SSE, and is negotiating a contract to import
gasoline from Suape terminal
Establish independent regulatory agency    Done, as reported in a previous PSR.  ANP established as independent regulator in
Jan 1998. Decisions are taken under a 5
member commission model and funding is
provided from the industry, which ensures
independence from govemment
Separation of PETROBRAS oil and gas   Done, as reported in a previous PSR.   In 1998, PETROBRAS formed two
activities.                                                                  subsidiaries - Transpetro for oil and gas
transport activities, and GasPetro for natural
gas trading
End of project
- 53 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1
Proiect Cost by ComDonent
(US$ million)
.   Corumb8i -~ Cmrts        Cam inas- Guararem a        CaAnl35 - PatIo  egre                  iotl
j%fa of                  t  %osf                          %of                           %of
Appraisal  Act      Appraisal Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal Appraisal  Acual  Appraisal Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal
DJRECT C0STS                                     , _                                         _     __        . _.         .        _
_____          368.5    333.6    98.6%/       23. 1     21.7   102.1%      141.9    134.4    99.6%      533.5    489.6    91.8%
Valves                             12.1       6.4    57.6%        0.0       0.9                3.3       3.5   112.7%       15.4      10.8    70.3
Co _preion Stasions                52.8      49.3   101.70/       0.0       0.0               17.6      21.4   128.2%       70.4      70.7   100.50%
SCADA                               4.2       3.2    78.5%        0.0       0.0                2.1       1.5    73.9%        6.3       4.7    74.8
CitygarsMcasunn Statiois           13.6       4.9    37.3%/       3.4       4.6   150.7%       11.6      16.7   1593%       28.6      26.1    91.4/
Construction Works                334.6    330.9   107.5%        26.4      49.8   205.3%     241.4    271.4   118.0%       602.4    652.1   108.2
Rivercrossin8s                     29.2      11.4    38.9%        1.1       0.0     0.00/     15.1       0.0      0.0%      45.4      11.4    25.15'
Landexpaovriation                  13.0      10.7    81.4%        0.0       0.0               18.0      24.9   132.1%       31.0      35.6   114.7
SUBTOTAL                          828.0    750.2    98   1       54.0      76.9   155.4%     451.0    473.8   110.5%      1333.01   1301.0    97.6
ENGNEERING _MANA_GEMEN
ertDesign   ~ ~~~ _ 2.0L           13.1  647.8%         0.0       1.4                1.0       9.4   896.6%        3.0      23.9   796.85'
Sudies                              2.0       0.0     0.0%        0.0       0.0                1.0       0.0     0.0%        3 0       0 o o _   0.0
Manaoeiment                        41.0      37.5    90.7%        1.0       4.1   407.0%       15.0     27.0   172.1%       57.0      68.7   120.5/
Environmental Mangemnt             16.01     10.0    61.9%        0.0       0.6                 9.0      6.4    67.7%       25.0      17.0    68.0O/
tSU OTAL61.0{'-  60.6    98.5% /                                  1.0      6.2' 612.10/       26.0      42.7   157.2%      8.0       109.6  11-4.5'/
SOFT COSTS '--- "___ ' ' '-                                                       ___
!                          . .     84.0      37.7    45.5%       10.0       3.9    39.2%      52.0      23.5    45.2%      146.0      65.2    44.6'!
UpfrontCommitment Fees             12.0       9.6    81.3%        1.0       1.0  100.00/6      4.0       6.0   150.1%       17.0      16.6    97.9%/
WorkingCai)ital                     2.04     10.6  539.3%         0.0       1.1    0.00/o      2.0       6.6   331.6%        4.0      18.4  459.7'!
Development Costs                  38.0      44.9   119.8%        0.0       4.7     0.0%      22.0      28.0   127.2%       60.0 _    77.6   129.30
Miscellaneous                       2.0       3.4   170.1%        0.0       0.3                0.0                 2.0                 5.8  290.05'
SUBTOTAL                          138.0     106.3    78.0%       11.0        .0   100.3%      80.0      66.2    82.8%      229.0    183.6    80.2%
,OTAL                              _         1027    9072T      6         94.2   144 1'/    557        5       10215J    1650.0    1594.2      66
Note: The cost structure shown in the above table is from Annex 3 of the PAD, with the physical and pnce contingencies assigned to each
specific cost item as per Annex 6 of the PAD. In the latter, the cost for the item Metering, City Gates, SCADA/Tel. has despite its title
also included River Crossings (without any apparent logic for such grouping).
Table 2
PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT
(US$ million)
Pipeline Direct Costs      310          728       383      1421      310         803.7    296.9   1410.6    100%            110%      78%       99%
Project Soft Costs           0             0      229       229         0          3.4    180.2    183.6       N/A           N/A      79%       80%
TOTAL                      310          728       6121   16501    310            807.1    477.1   1594.2    100%            111%      78%       97%
- 54 -



Table 3
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
ExpeudiWre Categorty               APP            Actual          Procurement Method
1.WORKS
Construction Trunkline                   361.0         380.7    NBF
Construction Southern Leg                241.4         271.4   ICB - US$130 Bank financing
River Crossings                           45.4          11.4    NBF
Compression Stations                      70.4          70.7    NBF
SCADA                                      6.3           4.7    NBF
City Gates/Measuring Stations             28.6          26.1    NBF
Land Exprop/Right of Way                  31.0          35.6    NBF
Subtotal                                 784.1         800.6
2. GOODS
Pipes                                    533.5         489.6    NBF
Valves, Rectifiers and fittings            15.4         10.8    NBF
Subtotal                                 548.9         500.4
3. SERVICES
Basic Design                               6.0          23.9    NBF
Management                                82.0          85.7    NBF
Subtotal                                  88.0         109.6
4. SOFT COSTS
Interest During Construction             146.0          65.2    NBF
Working Capital                            4.0          18.4    NBF
Other Dev. Costs                          79.0         100.0    NBF
Subtotal                                 229.0         183.6
GRAND TOTAL                             1650.0        1594.2
Legend: NBF:non-Bank financed; ICB: international competitive bidding.
Note: The appraisal costs shown in the above table reflect the costs by component as shown in the
PAD (Annex 6).
- 55 -



Table 4
COMPARISON between PAD and CURRENT PROJECTIONS (EXISTING CONTRACTS)
(US$ million)
INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS               1999      2000     2001     2002      2003     2007      2010     2015      2018
TCQ (MMcmd)                                                                                           189.t6    1038    .11,   I   18.33    1833  18.33    18.33
TBG       1.09     7.13     10.30    11.40    12.60     18.08    18.08    18.08    18.08
TCO (MMcmd)                                                                  0}              6.00        00     6.00
TBG        -        -        6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00
TCX (MMcmd)                                     ; 'A  -          -
TBG        -       -         -        -       6.00       6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00
TOTAL (MMcmd)                                17                                                       24.33    24.33
TBG       1.09     7.13    16.30    17.40    24.60    30.08    30.08    30.08    30.08
Revenues                   PAD              187,00   211.00   232.00    6Q00   367,00                         387.00
TBG      19.19   125.59   171.33   231.76   341.37   448.05   454.66   465.91   472.79
Operating Revenues         P                  30   1S  0 t      Q;.00   2.                        ) j .00     341.00
TBG      16.65   108.95   148.63   201.05   296.14   388.68   394.42   404.18   410.15
Net Income                 3.                (                                                ..00   (}28 00 00 00  100  113.00
TBG    (44.02)  (88.12)  (73.81)  (28.11)   54.97   169.60   200.36   249.77   285.24
BALANCE SHEET ITEMS                  1999      2000     2001     2002      2003     2007      2010     2015      2018
Net Current Assets         ?AD i8.00    35j.0j 5,j 36 00    36.00                                               4.00
TBO        -      14.59    37.83    72.26   183.62   285.85    170.23   254.20   194.14
Net Other Assets           ?.8..00                     16.j00                 .,00   .....                     119.00
TBG       9.38     9.57    2038    27.94    27.71    28.28    22.53        14.79    22.00
Surplus Drawdowns    j     i
TBG      45.25    48.77    83.46    43.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Net Fixed Assets      .       l            ,. 434,00  j3$.00  1 28S00       00        00                       34.00
TBG   1,303.27  1,394.20  1,493.92  1,455.64  1,430.27  1,116.88   850.73   401.69    133.02
of which: New Compression TBG      -         -        -         -      79.70   165.62    134.52    82.68    51.58
Total Assets                      .        I .0   1415.00  1,34.,3l0   1t1ll0                                  157.00
TBG   1,357.90  1,467.13  1,635.60  1,599.13  1,641.60  1,431.01  1,043.49   670.67   349.15
Liabilities and TCO                                                                                             l 1    00  113    1,12.001,073.00 0,00  15,.
TBG   1,055.70  1,218.38  1,407.87  1,352.57  1,300.09   994.29   706.41   429.84   166.10
of which: TCO          TBG    290.20   290.20   294.45   286.90   279.35   249.15   226.50    188.75   166.10
Equity and Near Equity     PAP               0.)    p200    AW 00  2ot00   i30.0                               142,00
TBG    302.19   248.75   227.73   246.57   341.51   436.72   337.08   240.83    183,05
Total Liabilities and Equity   .,   ,,,,i:       t 1S 001,345W,  ,3j1. 0  1 41&00                              157.00
TBG   1,357.90  1,467.13  1,635.60  1,599.13  1,641.60  1,431.01  1,043.49   670.67   349.15
FINANCIAL RATIOS                     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2007      2010     2015      2018
Debt as % of Total          -D 82.0                      40        30         0        0                         10.0
Capitalization          TBG        77.7     83.0      86.1     84.6      79.2     69.5      67.7     64.1     47.6
Debt excluding TCO as % of                                  ,  . . j    ;0    64.0   64.0.   560                  0.0
Total Capitalization    TBG        56.4     63.3      68.1     66.6      62.2     52.1      46.0     35.9       0.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  PA!)   .          1,43      137      130      1.42      248                          NA
TBG       N/A       1.29     1.54      1.48     197     2.24      2.43     5.76      4.46
- 56 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic cost-benefit analysis evaluates the economic benefit to Brazil of the project.
Project benefits were estimated by calculating the net benefit of using gas (the netback value)
based on the cost of alternative fuels displaced and adjusted for efficiency and other cost
differentials, plus an environmental premium where natural gas displaces more polluting fuels.
Project costs included the cost of gas supply at the inlet of the pipeline in Bolivia, the investment
and operating costs of the pipeline, the costs of new gas distribution systems in Brazil, and the
cost of converting existing consumers of alternative fuels to natural gas. All costs excluded taxes,
duties and financial costs. See Annex 4 of PAD (p. 21) for predicted economic costs and benefits.
Both the cost of gas supply, and the value of gas in the market, were defined at the point of the
City Gate, according to the following relationships in terms of US$/MMBtu:
Cost of Gas = Gas Cost (at Santa Cruz, Bolivia) + Cost of Pipeline Transportation to Brazil
Gas Netback Value = Economic Value of Fuels Displaced - Conversion Cost - Distribution Cost
The Gas Netback Value at the City Gate was calculated as the discounted value of the fuels
displaced by natural gas, less the cost of converting existing installations to natural gas, less the
cost of gas distribution. The evaluation calculated the internal economic rate of return (IERR) for
the project in its entirety and the net present value (NPV) of the benefits assuming an opportunity
cost of capital of 12%. Also, the IERRs for the project in its main component parts were
calculated which comprise: (i) the trunkline from Santa Cruz to Campinas (Sao Paulo); and (ii)
the southern leg from Campinas to Porto Alegre viewed as a marginal project.
At appraisal, the IERR was determined including the TCQ and the TCO to give a maximum flow
of 24 MMcmd through the entire pipeline, of which 14.6 MMcmd and 9.7 MMcmd were
consumed along the trunkline and the southern leg respectively. The IERRs were recalculated
based on the signed transportation contracts prevailing in June 2001 (see Section 4.1.2). This
indicates a higher flow through the entire pipeline of 30.3 MMcmd, of which 24.1 MMcmd and
6.1 MMcmd will be consumed along the trunkline and the southern leg respectively, which is
reflective of the high demand for gas in power generation along the trunkline which will consume
the full TCO/TCX gas volumes, and the slower than anticipated demand build up for natural gas
along the southern leg. Also, the costs of compression were accordingly increased for the
trunUdine (on both the Bolivian and Brazilian sides), and decreased for the southern leg. It is noted
that the southern leg is likely to take on an increasing importance due to new gas import line from
Argentina which is already constructed to Uruguaiana and operational, and is planned to link up
with the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline at Porto Alegre, and will likely lead to a part reversal of flow
through the southern leg. The recalculated IERRs and NPVs compared to those calculated at
appraisal are given below:
For the entire project:
Appraisal Estimates:  IERR = 21%   NPV @12% discount rate = US$1.23 billion
Recalculated Values:  IERR = 22%   NPV @12% discount rate = US$1.61 billion
For the southern leg:
Appraisal Estimates:  IERR = 27%   NPV @12% discount rate =US$0.75 billion
Recalculated Values:  IERR = 20%   NPV @12% discount rate =US$0.34 billion
- 57 -



Table 1
ECONOMIC EVALUATION of the ENTIRE PROJECT
(US$ million)
TRUNKLINE &
GAS FLOW                  SOUTH LEG                      BENEFITS
(MMcmd)  GAS COST    CAP-OPEX             BENEFITS   minus COSTS
1997      0.00        0.00          756.30          0.00         -756.30
1998      0.00        0.00          817.53          0.00         -817.53
1999      5.00        73.85         266.32         222.55        -117.62
2000      9.15       136.37         89.19          416.71         191.14
2001     10.38       156.06         64.03          473.93         253.85
2002     17.65       293.61         74.32          778.86         410.93
2003     25.09       317.16         100.63         1093.78        675.99
2004     26.41       456.12         55.73          1157.00        645.16
2005     27.55       473.69         57.67          1209.84        678.47
2006     29.17       500.98         78.20          1288.83        709.65
2007     30.33       521.63         34.19          1349.43        793.62
2008     30.33       521.63         34.19          1349.43        793.62
2009     30.33       524.09         34.19          1349.43        791.16
2010     30.33       526.55         34.19          1349.43        788.69
2011     30.33       529.01         34.19          1349.43        786.23
2012     30.33       531.47         34.19          1349.43        783.77
2013     30.33       531.47         34.19          1349.43        783.77
2014     30.33       533.93         34.19          1349.43        781.31
2015     30.33       536.39         34.19          1349.43        778.85
2016     30.33       536.39         34.19          1349.43        778.85
2017     30.33       538.86         34.19          1349.43        776.39
NPV@12%=    1607.31
IERR=       22%
- 58 -



Table 2
ECONOMIC EVALUATION of the TRUNK-LINE
(US$ million)
GAS FLOW                TRUNKLINE                    BENEFITS
(MMcmd)  GAS COST    CAP-OPEX          BENEFITS  minus COSTS
1997     0.00        0.00        640.04          0.00        -640.04
1998     0.00        0.00        553.22          0.00        -553.22
1999     5.00       72.92         43.92         222.55       105.72
2000     5.15       76.48         63.62         224.30        84.19
2001     6.05       90.25         51.45         266.16       124.46
2002     13.05      222.64        58.79         558.40       276.97
2003    20.21       357.27        79.70         859.89       422.92
2004    21.26       373.87        43.51         910.23       492.85
2005    22.05       385.76        44.88         946.33       515.69
2006    23.37       406.49        61.09        1011.11       543.54
2007    24.18       419.56        25.81        1054.97       609.60
2008    24.18       419.56        25.81        1054.97       609.60
2009    24.18       421.15        25.81        1054.97       608.01
2010    24.18       422.74        25.81        1054.97       606.42
2011    24.18       424.33        25.81        1054.97       604.83
2012    24.18       425.92        25.81        1054.97       603.24
2013    24.18       425.92        25.81        1054.97       603.24
2014    24.18       427.51        25.81        1054.97       601.65
2015    24.18       429.10        25.81        1054.97       600.07
2016    24.18       429.10        25.81        1054.97       600.07
2017    24.18       430.68        25.81        1054.97       598.48
NPV@12%=    1235.96
IERR=      23%
- 59 -



Table 3
ECONOMIC EVALUATION of the SOUTHERN LEG
(US$ million)
GAS FLOW                 SOUTH LEG                    BENEFITS
(MMcmd)  GAS COST    CAP-OPEX           BENEFITS   minus COSTS
1997     0.00        0.00         116.26          0.00        -116.26
1998     0.00        0.00         264.30          0.00        -264.30
1999     0.00        0.00         222.40          0.00        -222.40
2000     4.00        59.61        25.58          192.41        107.22
2001     4.33        65.11         12.57         207.77        130.08
2002     4.60        69.79         15.53         220.46        135.13
2003     4.88        74.70        20.93          233.89        138.26
2004     5.15        79.52         12.22         246.77        155.03
2005     5.50        84.92         12.79         263.51        165.79
2006     5.80        90.33         17.12         277.72        170.27
2007     6.15        96.61         8.38          294.46        189.47
2008     6.15        96.61         8.38          294.46        189.47
2009     6.15        97.44         8.38          294.46        188.64
2010     6.15        98.26         8.38          294.46        187.82
2011     6.15        99.09         8.38          294.46        186.99
2012     6.15        99.91         8.38          294.46        186.17
2013     6.15        99.91         8.38          294.46        186.17
2014     6.15       100.74         8.38          294.46        185.34
2015     6.15       101.57         8.38          294.46        184.52
2016     6.15       101.57         8.38          294.46        184.52
2017     6.15       102.39         8.38          294.46        183.69
NPV@12% =    335.44
IERR=      20%
- 60 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1995               4   TM, E, S, F
April 1995                  2   TM, S
May 1995                    1   TM
September 1995              1   TM
December 1995               1   TM
March 1996                  2   TM, F
May 1996                    1   TM
July 1996                   1   TM
October 1996                8   TM, F, E, S, E, F, F, F
March 1997                  7   TM, E, S, F, F, F, S
May 1997                    6   TM, F, S, F, F, E, L
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1997                   8   TM, F, S, F, Env, Env,Env,L
July 1997                   1   Env.
August 1997                 1   Env.
September 1997              2   TM, Env.
November 1997               1   TM
Supervision
February 1998                3   Env, Env, Env                     HS            HS
March 1998                   1  TM                                 HS            HS
May 1998                     1  Env                                HS            HS
June 1998                    1   TM                                HS            HS
September 1998               2   TM, Env                           HS            HS
February 1999                1  Env                                HS            HS
April 1999                   1  Env                                HS            HS
August 1999                  3   TM, Env, Env                      HS            HS
September 1999               1   TM                                HS            HS
October 1999                 2   TM, Env                           HS            HS
December 1999                1   TM                                HS            HS
March 2000                   1   TM                                HS            HS
May 2000                     2   TM, Env                           HS            HS
June 2000                    2   S, C                              HS            HS
November 2000                1  TM                                 HS            HS
ICR
December 2000               2    TM, Env                           HS            HS
March 2001                  2    TM, S                             HS            HS
Note: According to PAD, Annex 7, the identification mission took place in October 1996. All previous missions
recorded in the documentation are to be considered part of a pre-identification process, during which the
Bank consulted with the Government of Brazil, PETROBRAS and potential private sponsors and IADB. In
addition, the supervision effort is not fully captured in the table above, as there have lbeen missions from the
environmental/social specialists that have not been possible to retrieve from the recording system.
- 61 -



Specialty:
C      -       Consultant
E      -       Economist
Env    -       Environrnental/Social Specialist
F      -       Financial Analyst
L      -       Legal Specialist
S      -       Energy Specialist
TM     -       Task Manager
(b) StaffJ
| :0::Stage of Project Cycle                    ActuaLatestEstimatei
_________________________  No. Staff weeks              u s$ .o0.)
Identification/Preparation              131.3                        370.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    53.7                        161.7
Supervision                              83.9                        302.6
ICR                                      6.0*                        21.6*
Total                                   274.9                        856.7
i - Estimated (SAP enters all ICR charges under SPN budget)
- 62 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=NModest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
El Physical                               *H OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
LII Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OII Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
M Other (Please specify)           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social compensation programs
O Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
OOther (Please specify)                   O H  O SUOM  O N  * NA
- 63 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
El Lending                                            *HSOS OU OHU
ni Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
El Overall                                            OHS OS 0        U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Li Preparation                                        OHS OS   0  U  O HU
Government implementation performance              O      OS     OU  0 HU
_I Implementation agency performance                  O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
_S Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 64 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
7.1 PAD for Loan 4265-BR to TBG, Report No. 16769-BR, November 26, 1997
7.2 President's Report and Recommendation to the Executive Directors for a PCG Operation by TBG,
Report No. P7407-BR, November 26, 2000
7.3 TBG semestral progress reports
7.4 Environmental and social compensation progress reports from SEGEN, TBG and environmental
auditor.
7.5 Bank project status reports (supervision)
- 65 -



Additional Annex 8. Comments received from IADB
I.    Basic Data and Project Objectives
1.1   Under Resolution N DE/152-97 of December 17, 1997, the IADB Board of Directors
authorized a loan, from the Bank's Ordinary Capital, in the amount of US$240 million on behalf
of he TRANSPORTADORA BRASILEIRA GASODUTO BOLIVIA - BRASIL S.A. - TBG, as
the Borrower and Executing Agency, to participate in the financing of the Bolivia - Brazil Gas
Pipeline Integration Project. The total cost of the Project was estimated at US$1.699 million.
Planned counterpart and co-financing included US$310 million by the World Bank, US$84
million by CAF, USD 60 million by the EIB and US$1.005 million by Shareholders and Export
Credit Agencies for a total of US$1,459,540.
1.2   The Loan Contract was signed on December 15, 1998 and had a disbursement period of
three years, ending on December 15, 2001.
1.3   The general project objectives were to contribute to the regional integration of energy
sources and markets by linking Bolivian natural gas fields to the existing and potential markets of
Brazil's southeast and southern region as well as the State of Mato Grosso do Sul, where the
introduction of natural gas would permit transition to a more favorable, more efficient, and
environmentally more acceptable energy matrix for the industrial development of the country.
1.4   The specific objectives of the project were to (i) contribute to satisfying Brazil's growing
demand for energy by making natural gas available to consumers in the country's most important
economic regions and (ii) to contribute positively to the advance and consolidation of the
economic and institutional reforms of Brazil's energy sector, thereby fostering solid opportunities
for private sector participation and growth.
1.5   The pipeline extends over some 3,146km from its source near de city of Rio Grande,
Bolivia, to Porto Alegre and along its course, serving the cities of Corumba, Campo Grande,
Araraquara, Campinas, Curitiba, Florian6polis. An interconnection located between Campinas and
Guararema establishes a link with some existing lines that will supply Rio de Janeiro, Belo
Horizonte and Sao Paulo. The Brazilian line is divided into a North Segment between Corumba
and Campinas (1,256 kin) and a South Segment between Campinas and Porto Alegre (1,1801an).
1.6  IDB funding of US$237.6 million was scheduled to partially finance the construction and
installation of the Corumba-Campinas Segment of 1,256 kcm, and the purchase and installation of
the monitoring and control system SCADA for the entire Brazilian portion of the pipeline.
Sections II and III of the comments from IADB are reproduced in section 9 (b).
- 66-



