                                  Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                   Report No.: 27378




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                                    BRAZIL

                  GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                               (LOAN SCL-42650)
           S a 0 PAUL0 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
                                (LOAN 3043-BR )
        HYDROCARBON TRANSPORT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
                                (LOAN 3376-BR )



                                December 1,2003




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit: Real
Exchange Rate as of March 21,2003: U S 1 =3.5 Reais

Measures and Equivalents
Metric System
Mmbtu                   Million of British Thermal Units
MMcm                    Million cubic meters
MMcmd                   Million cubic meters per day

Fiscal Year
Government:             January 1to December 31




   Director-General, Operations Evaluation                : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
   Director, Operations Evaluation Department (Acting)    : Mr.Nils Fostvedt
   Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                : Mr. Alain Barbu
   Task Manager                                           : Mr. Andres Liebenthal

                                                              i



  OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopment effectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Operations Evaluation Departmentassesses the programsand activities of the World Bank for two
purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. In selectingoperationsfor assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments;and those that are likelyto generate
important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
studies.
     A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
     The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    111
                                                                    ...


Contents

Abbreviations and Acronyms                     ...........................................................................................    v

Principal Ratings       .............................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                             vi1

Key Staff Responsible            .....................................................................................................       vii

Preface...............................................................................................................................        ix

Summary   ...........................................................................................................................         xi

1 Background .
.                          The Hydrocarbon Sector in Brazil                                ..................................................  1

      Brazil Hydrocarbon Sector ......................................................................................                         1
      Bank Involvement in the Brazil Hydrocarbon Sector ..............................................                                        2
2 Project Performance Assessments
.                                                            ..............................................................................   4

      Brazil SEo Paulo Natural GasDistribution Project ................................................                                       4
                  Objectives and Design .................................................................................                     4
                 Implementation ............................................................................................                  4
                 Ratings .........................................................................................................            5
      Brazil Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project........................................                                            13
                  Objectives and Design ............................................................................... 13
                  Implementation ..........................................................................................                  13
                 Ratings ....................................................................................................... 14
      Brazil Gas Sector Development Project ................................................................ 22
                  Objectives and Design ............................................................................... 22
                  Implementation ..........................................................................................                  22
                  Ratings ....................................................................................................... 23
3 Lessons
 .           ........................................................................................................................        33

Annex A Basic Data
        .                       .......................................................................................................      37

Annex B1 Gas Sector Development Project . Development and Cost-
          .
   Benefit Analysis          ..........................................................................................................
                                                                            Market
                                                                                                                                             43

Annex B2 Comgas Financial Covenants
          .                                                       .......................................................................    56
Annex B3 Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project . Assistance
          .
   Component        ..................................................................................................................
                                                                                                         Technical
                                                                                                                                             57

Annex B4 Pollution Reduction in the Metropolitan Area of Slo Paulo (RMSP) and
          .
   the Cubatlo Area             .......................................................................................................      62

                                              iv


Annex B5 Emissions of Pollutants in Cubatfio in 2001
        .                                                             ................................................     64

Annex B6.Bolivia Hydrocarbon Sector Development                     .................................................      65

Annex B7.Overall  Impact of the Three Projects on Gas Use in Brazil                                ......................  67

Annex B8.Environmental   Aspects of the Gas Sector Development Project                                        ..............70
Annex C Borrower Comments
       .                       ....................................................................................        78




  This report was prepared under the supervision of Andres Liebenthal by Charles
  November-December 2002. The report was edited by William Hurlbut and Soon-
  Dahan and Dominique Babelon (consultants). who assessed the projects in

  Won Pak provided administrative support.

                                            V



Abbreviations and Acronyms

ANP        National PetroleumAgency (Agencia Nacional do Petroleo)
ABNT       Brazilian Associationof TechnicalNorms (AssociaqioBrasileira de Normas
           Tecnicas)
BIC        Bank InformationCenter
CAI31      Capitania del Alto y Bajo Izozog
CAF        Andean DevelopmentCorporation(CorporacionAndina de Fomento)
CETESB     SiioPaulo State Environmental Agency (Companhia de Tecnologia de
           Saneamento Ambiental)
CIDE       Brazil specificfuel tax (Contribuqiode Intewenqilo sob Dominio Economico)
Comgas     SiioPaulo Gas Company (Companhia de Gas de Silo Paulo)
CSPE       Energy Public ServiceCommission(Cornissilo de Sewicos Publicos de Energia)
EA         EnvironmentalAssessment
EIB        European Investment Bank
EMP        EnvironmentalManagement Plan
ESMAP      Energy SectorManagement AssistanceProgramme
Gasbol     Bolivia-BrazilGas Pipeline
Gaspetro   Petrobras Gas Subsidiary
GSA        Gas Sales Agreement
GSDP       Gas SectorDevelopment Project
GTB        Transbolivian Gas Company (Gas Transboliviano S.A)
HDT        HydrotreatmentPlant
HTPP       HydrocarbonTransport and ProcessingProject
IBAMA      Brazilian Institute for the Environment (InstitutoBrasileiro de Meio Ambiente)
IADB       Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IPDP       IndigenousPeoplesDevelopment Plan
IS0        International StandardOrganization
LNG        Liquefied Natural Gas
MME        Ministry of Mines and Energy (Ministerio de Minas e Energia)
ONS        National Electrical SystemOperator(OperadorNacional do Sistema)
OHSAS      OccupationalHealth and SafetyManagement System
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
Petrobras  Brazil Petroleum Company (Petroleos Brasileiros S.A )
PPT        Priority Thermo Electrical PlantsProgram(ProgramaPrioritario de
           Termoelecticas.
RMSP       SiioPaulo MetropolitanArea (RegiiloMetropolitana de Silo Paulo)
RPBC       Petrobras' Presidente Bernardes Refineryin Cubatgo (SP) (ReJinaria Presidente
           Bernardes-Cubatio)
SIRESE     Bolivia's SectoralRegulation System(Sistema de Regulacion Sectorial)
SPNGDP     SiioPaulo Natural Gas DevelopmentProject
TBG        Bolivia-BrazilGas Pipeline TransportationCompany(Transportadova Brasileira
           Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil S.A )
TCF        Trillion Cubic Feet
TCO        Transport Capacity Option (6 MMcmd above TCQ)
TCQ        Transport Capacity Quantity (contractualvolume under GSA up to 18MMcmd)
TCX        Pipeline capacity above TCQ and TCO
Unicamp
wcs        University of Campinas (UniversidadeFederal de Campinas)
           Wildlife ConservationSociety
WHO        World Health Association
YPFB       Bolivian Petroleum Company (Yacimentos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos)


                                                        vii


Principal Ratings

GASSECTORDEVELOPMENT                 PROJECT
                                                   ICR*                  ICR Review*                     PPAR
Outcome                                   Highly Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability                                 Highly Likely              Highly Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact                   High                   Substantial                     High
Bank Performance                          Highly Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                      Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory

SAoPAULONATURAL              GASDISTRIBUTION            PROJECT
                                                             ICR*              ICR Review*                  PPAR
Outcome                                                   Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Sustainability                                               Likely                 Likely               Highly Likely
Institutional Development Impact                          Substantial           Substantial                 Modest
Bank Performance                                          Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                      Satisfactow            Satisfactorv            Satisfactorv

HYDROCARBON          TRANSPORT PROCESSING PROJECT
                                     AND

                                                              ICR*              ICR Review*                  PPAR
Outcome                                                   Satisfactory            Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Sustainability                                                Likely                 Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact                              Partial               Modest               Substantial
Bank Performance                                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Borrower performance                                      Satisfactory            Satisfactory           Satisfactory
 The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.

Key Staff Responsible

GASSECTOR        DEVELOPMENT         PROJECT

Project                   Country Director               Division Chief/                 Task ManagedLeader
                                                        Sector Director
 Appraisal                    G. Nankani                    D. Leipziger                       N.de Franco
 Completion                   G. Nankani                M.G. Sri-Ram Aiyer                     N. de Franco

SAoPAULONATURAL              GASDISTRIBUTION            PROJECT

Project                   Country Director               Division Chief/                Task ManagedLeader
                                                        Sector Director
 Appraisal                     A. Choksi                  M. Munasinghe                          H. Nickel
 Completion                   G. Nankani                   S. Goldmark                        L. Vaca-Soto

HYDROCARBON          TRANSPORT PROCESSING PROJECT
                                     AND

Project                   Country Director               Division Chief/                Task ManagedLeader
                                                        Sector Director
 Appraisal                     A. Choksi                  M. Munasinghe                         T. Markus
 Completion                   G. Nankani                   S. Goldmark                        L. Vaca-Soto


                                               1x


Preface

This is a combined Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Brazil S5o
Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project, for which the Bank approved a loan (Loan 3043-
BR) for US$94 million equivalent on April 25, 1989, and which closed on August 31,
1999;the Brazil Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project, for which the Bank
approved a loan (Loan 3376-BR) for US$260 million equivalent on June 26,1991, and
which closed on December 31, 1999; and the Brazil Gas Sector Development Project, for
which the Bank approved a loan (Loan SCL-42650) for US$130 million on December 18,
1997, and which closed on December 31,2000.

The report is based on the ImplementationCompletionReports (ICR)prepared by the LAC
Region (Reportsno.19468,dated June 24, 1999;no. 19469,dated June 28, 1999,and no.
22201, dated June 27,2001), the projects' appraisalreports (ReportsNo. 7127-BR7dated
April 6,1989, no. 8767-BR, dated June 6,1991, and no. 16769-BRYdated November 26,
1997),the Loan Agreements,project files, economicreports from the Region, and
discussionwith Bank staff.An OperationsEvaluationDepartment (OED) mission visited
Bolivia and Brazil in November and December 2002 to review the long-term impact of the
projects and discuss the projects' results and the effectivenessof the Bank's assistancewith
representativesof the governmentsof Brazil and Bolivia,the Government of S5o Paulo, the
borrowers, federal and state environmentaland regulatory agenciesin Brazil and Bolivia,
business and energy user associations, oil and gas companies,nongovernmental
organizations,indigenous associations,and local communities.The cooperationand
assistance of current and former government officialsin both countries, and of the
borrowers, are gratefully acknowledged.

The projects were selected for audit as part of an ongoing OED study of World Bank
support to extractive industriesprojects. Two years after completion of the last project, the
PPAR seeks to validate previous ratings of the projects in light of events since completion
and to assessthe longer-term economic,social,institutional,and environmental
sustainabilityand impact of the activitiessupportedby the projects. The simultaneous
assessment of these three projectsprovides a sector overviewof Bank involvementin the
oil and gas sector in Brazil, with a focus on the natural gas sector. The report reviewsthe
long-term sustainabilityand impact of project-relatedregulatory reforms, institutional
strengthening,and private participationobjectives, and assessesthe project's experience
with the strengtheningand implementationof environmental,resettlement and indigenous
people's safeguards..Finally, the report seeks to draw lessons which may be relevant to
similarprograms in other countries and regions.

Following standard OED procedures, a draft report was sent to the borrowers for
comments. All comments received were taken into account in the final version and are
reproduced in Annex C to this report.


                                               xi


Summary

Attached is the combined Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department on the above projects. A loan for the Brazil SZo Paul0 Natural
Gas Distribution Project, in the amount of US$94 million equivalent, was approved April
25, 1989, and closed August 31, 1999.A loan for the Brazil Hydrocarbon Transport and
Processing Project, in an amount of US$260 million, was approved June 26, 1991, and
closed December 31, 1999.Finally, a loan for the Brazil Gas Sector Development
Project, in an amount of US$130 million, was approved December 18, 1997, and closed
December 31,2000.

All three projects had significant and coherent policy, institutional, and environmental
objectives, which were consistently pursued. All aimed at optimizing and developing
natural gas use in Brazil, in particular in the SZo Paul0 market; addressing pricing and
regulatory issues in the hydrocarbon sector; mobilizing private capital and promoting
private sector participation; reducing environmental pollution in urban areas by
substituting natural gas or low-sulfur diesel oil for more polluting fuels; and improving
environmental and risk management in the sector.

All three projects had outcomes that were satisfactoryor better. The outcome of the Gas
Sector Development Project (Bolivia-Brazilgas pipeline), was highly satisfactory, a
remarkable achievement given the complexityof this project, which linked two countries
with differentregulatory and legal structures,an initial situation of uncertain reservesin
Bolivia and an undeveloped market in Brazil with largeregulatory risks. Sustainability,in
all cases, is likely or better, though some economic, contractual,and regulatory issues
continue to constrain faster developmentof the pipeline'spotential. The institutional
development impact of the three projects varied. In the Gas Sector DevelopmentProject, it
was rated high based on the substantialsectorreform it effected. In the Hydrocarbon
Transport and Processing Project it was rated substantialbecause reforms were only
partially implemented. Inthe SZo Paul0 Gas DistributionProject it was rated modest
because the project did not contributeas much as intendedto the implementationof a
rational gas pricing policy and tariff structurein S8oPaul0 and in Brazil.Bank and
borrowerperformance were rated satisfactory or better in all three projects.

All three projects contributed substantially to a fivefold increase in natural gas sales in
Brazil since the late 1980s.Markets for Bolivian gas, however, have not developed as
rapidly a expected, due to slow economic growth in Brazil, increases in international oil
prices, the large devaluation of the Real since 1999,the 2001 energy crisis in Brazil, and
some outstanding contractual and regulatory issues. The Bolivia-Brazil pipeline also had
a considerable impact on the Bolivian economy.

Very substantialadvanceswere made in the hydrocarbonregulatory framework in both
Brazil and Bolivia since the early 1990s.During the past decade, Brazil eliminated federal
and statemonopolies over all stages of the oil and gas chain, liberalizedpetroleumprices
and establisheda legal, institutional,and regulatory framework conduciveto competition
and private sectorparticipation. The projects, particularlythe Gas SectorDevelopment
Project, contributedto these reforms. Bolivia,with Bank supportunder other projects,
followedthe samepath and even went fbrtherin unbundling and securingprivate sector

                                               xii


participation.Despite very substantialachievements,however, faster developmentof gas
markets remains constrainedby rigid contractualprovisions, uneven sharing of risks, and
lack of open access to the pipeline. Also, althoughprivate sector participationhas advanced
significantlyin gas production and distribution,the Brazilian governmenthas yet to
implementits declared policy that the private sectorwould assume control of the Brazilian
segment of the Bolivia-Brazilpipeline.

All three projects also helped reduce pollution in urban areas, particularly in the State of
S2o Paulo. They all contributed to the substitution of natural gas for more polluting fuels,
to improving the environmental and safety performance of project borrowers, and to
enhancing environmental monitoring capabilities of the sector regulatory agency.

Environmental management of large pipeline projects has been enhanced in both Bolivia
and Brazil as a result of the Gas Sector Development Project. The environmental
assessment process of this project is exemplary, and has earned international awards.
Local and international NGOs actively helped improve the consultation and participation
process throughout design and implementation. The Environmental Management Plan,
social and ecological compensation programs, and Indigenous Peoples Development
Plans along the pipeline were implemented as planned, with only minor shortcomings
related to erosion control and re-vegetation of the right of way. Also, although social
compensation and indigenous peoples' development programs were based on expressed
community wishes, their sustainability appears to vary with location and type of program.

Someindustryrepresentatives and government officialsin Bolivia have been concerned
that, as a result of the Gas Sector DevelopmentProject,poor communities along other
pipelineshave raised their demands for compensation,pointing to the need for standardsin
the definition of social impacts, and for criteria in settingand negotiating appropriate
compensations.Finally, both positive and negative indirect environmentaland social
impactsin Bolivia have been associated with the project, due to the intenseupstream and
downstream activitiesit stimulatedin ecologicallyand socially sensitive areas. Bank efforts
to addressthe adverse impacts have so far had modest results.

Several lessons can be derived from these three projects, in particular:

    Bank involvement in large and complex national or cross-border public-private
    infrastructure projects involving a spectrum of political, regulatory, financial,
    environmental, and social risks, can bring substantial value added to the country.

    In complex investment projects involving many partners and tight schedules, key
    policy and institutional matters are better addressed up front, and sector regulation, in
    particular that related to priority and open access rules to gas transportation pipelines,
    should precede gas supply and transportation contracts.

    Uneven distribution of risks among gas producers, buyers, transporters, and
    distributors has perverse effects because resulting risk mitigation strategies tend to
    reinforce vertical integration and thereby reduce competition.

    Clean fuels can be more competitive if appropriate environmental standards and
    strong control and enforcement systems exist in the consumption markets.

                                          xiii


9 Earlypreparation of acomprehensiveand in-depthEnvironmental Assessment,
  including an assessment of indirect and cumulative impacts, in line with Bank
  guidelines, is important to influence project design and ensure optimum definition
  and implementation of environmental, social, safety, and health measures.

9 Early involvement ofcivil societyinthe design,implementation, andmonitoring of
  the environmental and social mitigation and compensation programs is essential to
  identify all relevant stakeholders and avoid later conflicts, and clear participation
 mechanisms are necessary to ensure proper design and successful implementation of
 these programs.

9 Involvement of international and localNGOs canpositively influence the
  implementation of large and complex projects, and help ensure application of the
 Bank's safeguard policies, when combined with Bank and sponsors' receptiveness to
 criticism and willingness to address issues.




                                                    Gregory K. Ingram
                                                    Director-General
                                                    Operations Evaluation


                                                  1


1.       Background -The Hydrocarbon Sector in Brazil

BRAZILHYDROCARBONSECTOR

1. The World Bank first became involvedin the hydrocarbon sector in Brazil in the late
1980s.At the time, the sector was characterizedby complete constitutional federal
monopoly (exercised through PetroleosBrasileiros S.A - Petrobras) over all stages of oil
and gas exploration,production,processing, and distribution.The Federal Government
controlledthe prices of oil, natural gas and petroleumproducts at all levels,with a
complicated structure of cross-subsidiesbetween products, and uniform, national retail
prices. Petrobras production and investmentdecisions, in the absence of competitionand
appropriateprice signals, were governed by operationaland market constraintsin its
refineries.No priority was given to using natural gasproduced in associationwith oil.
When not needed for oil recovery, gas was flared (in 1985,close to 30 percent of gas
produced was flared).

2. A series of studies and economic and sector work, carried out by the Government and
the Bank between 1983 and 1991 pointed out that the public resources spent to increase
                                     ',
the domestic supply of petroleum, hydroelectricity, and alcohol, while being effective in
increasing self-sufficiency, had significantly contributed to the country's macroeconomic
problems, particularly to the fiscal deficit and inflation, and that a new strategy was
required to ensure a secure supply of energy. These studies generally recommended
moving toward economically efficient energy pricing, reducing waste (in particular the
flaring of associated gas), wider use of market-based incentives, ensuring energy supplies
at least cost, clarifying the role of public institutions, and increasing the participation of
the private sector to reduce public funding of sector investments. States were also keen to
develop energy strategies that would minimize their costs (by substituting expensive
manufactured gas in state-owned gas distribution activities in Rio and Siio Paulo) and
reduce environmental pollution.

3. In August 1986,the government started to stress the need for rational use of natural
gas, when various task forces, including a gas strategy task force, were established. A
National Plan on Natural Gas (Plangas) was issued in May 1987,to be followed by
detailed plans. The objective of Plangas was to increase the nationwide natural gas share
of final energy consumption above its low level of only 2 percent in 1986to about 6
percent by 1995.However, it failed to build a consensus among the various institutions
involved at federal and state level regarding priorities for gas use and principles for gas
pricing. States were given the authority under the new Constitution to fix gas retail
tariffs, but the federal government retained the authority to set wholesale gas prices as
well as wholesale and retail tariffs of competing petroleum products. The federal
government was mostly concerned about capping fuel prices to control inflation (which it
did repeatedly over the 1990-98 period).


1.Including the Government's 1987National Plan on Natural Gas and the 1991 Integrated Energy Strategy
Study; and the Bank's 1983 Oil and Gas Sector Review (Report 4816-BR), and the 1985Public Sector
Investment Review (Report 4816-BR).

                                                   2


4. This situation started to change significantly in the mid-1990s. Two major
developmentswere major departuresfiom past policies. First, ConstitutionalAmendment
No. 9, approved on November 9,1995, eliminatedthe hydrocarbon monopolyof Petrobras
and allowedprivate entrantsinto exploration,production, foreign trade, and pipeline
transportationof oil and gas resources and opened refining and trade ofpetroleum products
and natural gas to competition, after a transitionperiod. Second,based on an agreement
between the governments of Bolivia and Brazil in 1992,in February 1993,Petrobras and the
BolivianPetroleum CompanyYPFB signeda Gas SalesAgreement (GSA)under which
Petrobras would import up to 16million cubicmetersper day (MMcmd)of natural gas from
Bolivia.

5. The steps and institutional and regulatory framework governing sector liberalization
were then defined in the August 1997Hydrocarbon Law (Law 9478). This law mandated
that the national energy policy should seek to promote competition for the development
and use of petroleum energy resources, created the National Petroleum Agency (ANP) as
an autonomous agency in charge of sector regulation, defined a schedule for progressive
price and foreign trade liberalization for petroleum products (which was completed in
December 2001), and mandated the unbundling of Petrobras activities. These changes
also triggered constitutional and other legal changes at state level. Most states eliminated
constitutional provisions assigning monopoly of gas distribution activities to state-owned
companies, and then proceeded to privatize these activities and to issue new concessions
to the private sector. Several states (including the states of Rio de Janeiro and SEio Paulo)
also established state regulatory commissions to oversee the performance of these
concessions as well as other conceded public services.

BANKINVOLVEMENT IN THE BRAZILHYDROCARBON                       SECTOR

6. The Bank strategyin the energy sectorin the mid-to late 1980scalled for supporting
governmentmoves toward economicallyefficient energypricing, investment, and
operationalpolicy, taking into account environmental,fiscal, financial, and income
distributionconsiderations. The Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) of 1995 and 19972
remained generally consistent with the earlier strategy, but emphasized privatization of
service provision, mobilization of private sector financing, and the design of sector
reforms that would ensure competition and efficiency. The most recent CAS3again
proposed that the Bank provide selective strategic support for infrastructure (including
energy) to increase private sector participation, improve regulation, provide services to
the poor, and reduce the fiscal burden of infrastructure services. Environmental
management, including the effective management of Brazil's urban pollution problems, is
also reiterated as a priority.

7. Over theperiod 1983-88, the Bank was involved in the Brazilian oil and gas sectoronly
through economicand sectorwork (alreadymentioned in para.2) addressingbroad issuesin


2. Country Assistance Strategy, dated June 6, 1995(Report No. 14569); and dated June 12, 1997 (Report
NO.16582-BR).
3. Dated March 6,2000 (Report No. 20160-BR).

                                                    3


the energy sector. Subsequently,between 1989and 1997,the Bank approved three
investment projects, with loans totaling US$484 million, the only operations in Brazil's
hydrocarbon sector. The Silo Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project (Loan 3043-BR, in
an amount of US$94 million, to the Silo Paulo Gas Company-Comgas) was approved in
April 1989;the Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project (Loan 3376-BR, in an
amount of US$260 million, to Petroleos Brasileiros SA-Petrobras) was approved in June
1991; and the Gas Sector Development Project (Loan SCL-4265, in an amount of
US$130 million, to Transportadora Brasileira de Gas-TBG) was approved in December
1997.A Partial Credit Guarantee Operation (in the amount of US$lSO million) was also
approved in December 2000, in connection with the Gas Sector Development Project4.
As inputs to the preparation of the Gas Sector Development Project, two additional
important studies were carried out in 1996and 1997:a Natural Gas Pricing and
Regulatory Study and a Hydro and Thermal Power Sector Studye6
                      5,


8, All three projects had substantial physical, policy, institutional, and environmental
objectives, in support of the government's strategy. To various extents, all aimed at (a)
optimizing and developing natural gas use, particularly in the Silo Paulo market, as a way
to reduce the cost of energy supply in the Brazilian economy, and avoid wasteful flaring
of domestic gas; (b) improving the pricing and regulatory framework in the hydrocarbon
sector; (c) mobilizing private capital and promoting private sector participation; (d)
reducing environmental pollution in urban areas; and (e) improving environmental and
risk management in the sector.




4. The Partial Credit Guarantee Operation was planned as part of the GSDP financing plan, but submitted
to the Board separately later on (Report and Recommendation of the President No. P7407-BR, approved in
December 2000). To this date (April 2003), the bond issue had not taken place and the operation had not
been closed. This operation has therefore been excluded from the scope of this assessment.
5. World Bank Report No. 12772-BR, dated October 25, 1996
6. ESMAP Report No. 197197,dated September 1997

                                                4


2.        Project PerformanceAssessments

BRAZILSAoPAULONATURALGASDISTRIBUTIONPROJECT

Objectives and Design

9. The objectives' of the SZo Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project (SPNGDP) were (a)
to extend and convert Comgas existing network for distribution to industrial, commercial,
and residential customers, to enable the daily distribution of 3.0 million cubic meters per
day (MMcmd) of natural, associated, gas from the Campos field, and 400,000 MMcmd of
refinery gas, by project completion; (b) to strengthen Comgas management and
organization, project implementation capacity, and the efficiency and safety of its gas
distribution operations; (c) to assure Comgas financial viability and cash generation
capacity with a view to further expansion of its operations; (d) to help Comgas mobilize
capital so as to reduce its demand for funds from the federal, state, and municipal

framework of the gas industry in Brazil; (0to reduce environmental pollution in the State
governments and their agencies; (e) to enhance the technical and financial regulatory

of SZio Paulo; and (g) to develop and implement a gas utilization strategy for the State of
SZo Paul0 and Brazil, including economically efficient gas pricing.

10.The objectives of the project were not revised during implementation. The project
included the following components: (a) expansion of the natural gas network; (b)
conversion of the existing network from naphtha gas to natural gas; (c) a telemetry
system for remote control of the network; (d) improvements of maintenance and repair
facilities; (e) technical assistance and training to assist Comgas in the implementation of

information systems; (8) a study on the restructuring of Comgas shareholdings; and (h) a
all phases of the project; (0a study to improve Comgas management, organization, and
gas utilization and tariff study for the State of SZo Paulo.

Implementation

11.The project was substantially implemented, with actual costs amounting to 95 percent
of appraisal estimates (US$270 million, versus US$285.2 million at appraisal). However,
there were some large cost overruns in some components, in particular the cost of the
conversion program, and engineering and technical assistance costs were much higher
than planned. There were revisions in the allocation of funds among the various
components during implementation (essentially reducing the scope of network expansion
for residential use). The loan was fully disbursed.

12.There were considerable delays in implementation. The closing date was extended
four times, from June 30, 1995,originally, to August 31, 1999. This four-year delay in
completion was due to late effectiveness (14 months after approval), inadequate project
organization and management during the period 1990-94, procurement problems, and the


7. as stated in the Loan Agreement

                                               5


slow pace of network conversion due to unexpected problems associated with the
prevention of gas leakages and to a decision by municipal authorities to limit allowed
time for conversion works to a few hours in the evenings and during weekendsin order to
avoid traffic disruptions and noise nuisance.

Ratings

Outcome: Satisfactory

13.Overall outcome is satisfactory, despite substantial delays. Although relevance to the
current Bank CAS is modest, overall relevance is rated substantial because the project
remains broadly consistent with Brazil's development priorities. Furthermore, it
contributed positively to the preparation of Comgas for a later successful privatization
and, consequently, to its ability to ensure the rapid expansion in gas use required in
connection to the Gas Sector Development Project. Efficacy was generally substantial:
Comgas existing network was extended and converted to natural gas; Comgas
management and organization, project implementation capacity, and the efficiency and
safety of its gas distribution operations were substantially strengthened; Comgas
succeeded in mobilizing private capital; and the project contributed to reduce air
pollution in the Siio Paulo area. The project, however, did not contribute as much as
intended to the implementation of a rational gas pricing policy and tariff structure in Siio
Paul0 and in Brazil. Efficiency was substantial, with the economic rate of return re-
estimated at about 26 percent.

Relevance: Substantial

14.The project was consistent with the Governmentand Bank countypriorities at the
time, which stressed policies to enhance efficient resource allocation and increased
efficiency in the public sector, to formulate a new rational energy strategy based on least
cost, stimulate use of natural gas; help mobilize capital to reduce demand for public funds
to finance expansion of energy supply; and reduce environmental pollution.

15.Most project objectives remain substantially relevant to the country's current
developmentpriorities. In the current context of fiscal adjustment and priority to poverty
reduction, the opening up of the oil and gas sector to competition and the private sector,
combined with rational energy pricing, remain a government priority. Reduction of
environmental pollution also remains among the priorities. Thus, four of the project
objectives (to help Comgas to mobilize capital so as to reduce its demand for funds from
the federal, state and municipal governments and their agencies; to enhance the technical
and financial regulatory framework of the gas industry in the State of Sao Paulo and
Brazil; to reduce environmental pollution in the state of Siio Paulo; and to develop a gas
utilization strategy to efficiently increase the share of natural gas in the energy matrix),
continue to be substantially relevant to the country's priorities, given the large share of
the State of Siio Paul0 in total energy consumption.

                                                6


16.Relevance of theproject objectives to the Bank's current country assistance strategy
is modest. The March 2000 CAS does not foresee Bank assistance for energy network
expansion, except for selected investments critical to competition. Reducing
environmental pollution through investments is also no longer relevant, since the Bank's
role is now limited to helping strengthen institutions to assist in developing priority-
setting methodologies. However, the project's objectives of capital mobilization,
enhancing the regulatory framework for the gas sector, and developing and implementing
a gas utilization strategy, including economically efficient gas pricing, are still generally
relevant to the CAS priorities of supporting fiscal adjustments and improving the
regulatory environment for growth and private sector development.

17.Overall relevance of project objectives is rated as substantial, despite modest
relevance to the current Bank CAS. This rating isjustified because: (a) relevance to
government priorities of most project objectives remains substantial; (b) the prior
execution of the expensive and complicated network conversion considerably facilitated
the privatization of Comgas and permitted the new owners to focus all their energy and
resources on the major expansion required to absorb large quantities of gas fi-omBolivia;
and (c) the ability of Comgas to considerably expand gas sales in the State of Sao Paul0
is critical to the success of the Bank-financed Gas Sector Development Project.

Efficacy: Substantial

18.Project objectives were substantially achieved, as summarized below.

         Although with considerable delay, Comgas existing network was extended and
         converted to natural gas, enabling Comgas to reach the appraisal target of 3.4
         million cubic meters per day (MMcmd) on average, by project completion
         (August 1999). Efficacy in reaching this objective was therefore substantial. After
         privatization, sales increased considerably and reached 7 MMcmd in 2001.
         Comgas management and organization, project implementation capacity, and the
         efficiency and safety of its gas distribution operations were substantially
         strengthened. Efficacy in reaching this objective is therefore substantial.
         Reliability and safety of operations were strengthened as planned, through
         automation systems, testing laboratory facilities, technical assistance and training
         programs. In- house studies also led to the development of an integrated
         management system. Starting in 1995, a restructuring program was implemented,
         with significant cost and personnel reduction (fi-omover 1,400 in 1993to less
         than 1,000by loan closing) and productivity increases (the number of customers
         per employee increased from 168in 1993to 314in 1999, and gas sold per
         employee increased from 0.3 MMcm in 1993to 1.2MMcm in 1999).These
         improvements, together with the completion of network conversion to natural gas,
         and improvements in the federal and state regulatory framework after the
         approval of the Hydrocarbon Law in 1997,contributed to transform Comgas into
         an attractive candidate for privatization, which took place at the time of loan
         closing (August 1999).

                                          7


0 Efficacy was negligible in reaching the objective of assuring Comgas financial
  viability and cash generation capacity. Comgas did not reach the loan financial
  covenants during most of the implementation period, due to federal controls over
  all levels of gas and substitute fuels, which were gradually relaxed only from
  1998onwards.
0 The project substantially reached its objectives of helping Comgas mobilize
 private capital. As a result of a strategy developed under the project, and of
  Comgas restructuring efforts, convertible debentures (US$50 million) were
  successfully floated in June 1996.By July 1998,all debentures had been
  converted into preferential shares by the bondholders. The state government
  subsequently decided to privatize Comgas.
0Efficacy in meeting the objective of "developing and implementing a gas
 utilization strategy for the State of Siio Paul0 and Brazil, including economically
  efficient gas pricing" was modest. The Gas Utilization Study for the State of Siio
  Paul0 which was carried out under the project did provide a long-term framework
  to the S5o Paul0 Gas Commission, which was established in 1994to design a
  retail gas pricing policy for the state, and was one of the inputs to the broader
  debate with the federal government about the articulation of a rational national
  gas policy along the gas chain. The Bank also made use of the study in its own
  subsequent sector work and during preparation of the Gas Sector Development
 Project. But the study's objective to implement a gas utilization strategy and gas
 pricing policy for Brazil as well as the State of Si0 Paulo was unrealistic as long
  as federal price controls over gas and competing products remained, and as long
  as all stages of the hydrocarbon sector remained monopolized. Many of the
  changes proposed by the study with respect to pricing principles for gas and
  competing fuels, as well as transport and distribution tariffs, were eventually
  implemented after 1997,whenthe major changes to the national regulatory
  framework took place, including the elimination of the constitutional monopolies
  and price liberalization (needed to attract the private sector in the hydrocarbon
  sector and to ensure the economic viability of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline).
 However, these developments can hardly be attributed to the project.
0Efficacy in reaching the project objective of enhancing the technical andfinancial
  regulatoryframework of the gas industry in Brazil was modest. The contribution
 of the project to the development of technical standards was substantial:
  standards for the design of gas transmission and distribution systems were
 proposed and approved by the Brazilian Association of Technical Norms (ABNT)
  as national standards. However, the project's contribution to the design of tariffs
 andJinancia1regulationsfor Brazil was modest, for reasons already stated in the
 preceding paragraph. For the State of S6oPaulo, efficacy is more difficult to
  assess, and may be rated as either modest or substantial, depending on the time
  frame considered. Based on one of the two project tariff studies (para. 20),
  Comgas introduced a somewhat improved (though still essentially cost-based)
 tariff structure in June 1994,but, in practice, even the application of this tariff
  structure was seriously constrained by federal intervention in price setting and
 margins (for purposes of inflation control). Eventually, in 1998, after major
  changes were made to the national regulatory framework, the newly established

                                                      8


         State Energy Regulatory Agency (CSPE) was able to design gas retail tariff
         schedules more in line with the principles recommended by the Gas Utilization
         Study, and incorporate them in gas distribution concession contracts.
     0   Environmental objectives were substantially achieved. Although it is not possible
         to measure the relative contribution of expanded natural gas use in total air
         pollution reduction, according to the S%oPaulo State Environmental Agency
         (CETESB)'s monitoring report for 2001, the Metropolitan Area of S%oPaulo
         (RMSP) monitoring stations show results much below the ambient air standards
         for sulfur dioxide' and improvements since 1997 (Annex B4). The substitution of
         more polluting fuels with natural gas by Comgas customers may have had
         significant impacts in terms of these sulfur dioxide emission reduction^.^

Efficiency: Substantial

19.The ICR re-estimated the internal economic rate of return at 25.7 percent, compared
to the appraisal estimate of 33.8 percent. The lower actual rate of return is mostly due to
the longer than planned implementation period, causing gas sales volumes to reach the
projected levels of 6 MMcmd at full development only by 2002, Le., with a six-year
delay.

Institutiona1Development Impact: Modest

20. Natural Gas Regulatoy Framework: Modest. Until 1994,the Comgas tariff structure
was based on average costs and structuredby blocks of consumption, each block being
assigned a fixed tariff calculated to recover Comgas cost plus a return on assets. This
inflexible structure acted as a disincentive to industrial consumers. Based on a study
commissioned by Comgas from TECHNOPLAN, a somewhat improved tariff structure
was introduced in mid-1994. The main change was the introduction of a binomial tariff
structure for each broad category of consumers, including a fixed and a variable
component. Use of the tariff structure to optimize market penetration and to ensure the
financial health of Comgas, however, was subsequently very much constrained by federal


8. Below the current ambient air standard df 365yglm3 in 24 hours and 80pg/m3 in a year, and also below
the new limit of 125pgIm3 proposed by WHO. Annual average concentrations of sulfur dioxide in RMSP
was in the range 38-40pgJm3 between 1992 and 1997, and subsequently, decreased to 20yglm. Total
particulates in suspension in RMSP, since 1992, remain slightly higher than the primary standard of
8Opglm3 (annual geometric average). However, a recent CETESB study indicates that particulates
pollution in RMSP is mainly due to vehicular emissions and to re-suspension of soil dust.
9. The impact of the project on air pollution derives mostly from substitution of fuel oil with natural gas. In
1999,Comgas gas sales to industry were about 1,140million cubic meters. Before the project, sales of
manufactured gas to industry were equivalent to about 110 million cubic meters per year, so net
incremental gas sales to industry were about 1,030million cubic meters per year, equivalent to displacing
about 900,000 tons of fuel oil. Assuming that 50% of this fuel was high sulfur (3.5%) and half was low
sulfur, the project would have removed about 20,000 tons of sulfur per year fromthe air, or about 40,000
tons of sulfur dioxide. In 2001, CETESB estimated total emission of SO, at 69,400tons in the Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Area and the Baixada Santista, including 47,100 tons from industry. The project may
therefore have helped to reduce SO, emissionby as much as 30%.

                                               9


inflation control policies, as already commented above.The tariff structure became an
effective management and regulatory tool only after 1997,when the federal government
started to implement a progressive deregulation of substitute fuel prices and retail tariff
regulation effectively returned under the authority of the state government. When the
State of S%oPaulo decided to privatize Comgas, CSPE established a new tariff schedule
in 1999 for incorporation into gas distribution concession contracts, which made
considerable progress toward the principles proposed by the Gas Utilization Study.

21, In the current Comgas concession contract, tariffs are divided in three parts, reflecting
the price of gas, the price of transport, and the distribution margin, the latter in turn being
divided into a fixed and a variable part to reflect the distributor's fixed and variable costs.
While inflation adjustments of the margin are annual, tariffs may change as needed if the
cost of gas or transport changes. Equally important, tariffs became ceilings and
distributors are now authorized to give discounts to large users as needed to encourage
them to shift to natural gas (with the approval of CSPE). The general manager of Comgas
told the assessment mission that the current tariff structure was not an obstacle to
expansion, although it needed to focus more on the market, be even more differentiated.
The first contractual tariff revision is planned in 2004.

22. With respect to technical and safety regulations, the project contributed to the
approval by ABNT of national standards for gas distribution networks and installations,
and for appliances. These standards are applicable throughout Brazil. Currently, the
monitoring of the technical quality of works in gas networks is the responsibility of the
Regional Council of Engineering and Architecture, while the environmental evaluation
and risk analysis is the responsibility of CETESB. Within its regulatory responsibilities,
CSPE monitors the quality and safety aspects of the service as indicated in the concession
contract, including the application of ANSI 31.8 for operation and maintenance of gas
networks.

23. Organization,Management and Financial Condition of Comgas: Substantial. The
project permitted the transformation of a small gas manufacturing company into a gas
distribution company, with a well-trained technical staff, able to market much larger gas
volumes safely.

24. Compliance with the loan financial covenants was poor during project
implementation (Annex BZ), but mostly due to factors outside Comgas control (price
controls, unstable gas supply by Petrobras). After 1994,Comgas implemented substantial
reorganization and cost-cutting efforts, leading to improved productivity. The opening up
of capital through the floating of convertible debentures, promoted by the project,
contributed to close the project's financing gap and introduce transparency and sound
financial management within Comgas.

25. Comgas management interviewed by the assessment mission said that the new
owners had encountered Comgas in good condition, although somewhat stagnant and
lacking market perspective. They valued highly having received the company with a
network already converted, allowing them to assign investment resources to finance the

                                                    10


post-privatization major system expansion required to absorb much increased volumes of
gas from Bolivia.

Sustainability: Highly Likely

26. Economic resilience of project benefits is high: Comgas no longer depends mostly on
unstable supplies of associated gas from the Campos Basin, as it now receives large
quantities of gas from Bolivia (and, to a much smaller extent, from the Merluza field),
and gas sales have considerably expanded beyond project estimates at completion.
Furthermore, the operation of the naphtha-based synthetic gas plant was eventually fully
stopped by Comgas after privatization and the assets were transferred. Financial
resilience is high, since, after privatization, Comgas has, at last, been able to achieve a
return on assets of 12.5percent, consistent with the loan covenant, and since the tariff
structure has been rationalized (further improvements are expected following the 2004
tariff revision); environmental resilience of project operations is high: all Comgas
installations and works are currently licensed. Furthermore, Comgas is preparing to
obtain IS0 14001 certification (expected in March 2003) and is carrying out a
comprehensive risk analysis as a condition for environmental licensing." Environmental
benefits from the substitution of natural gas for more polluting fuels previously used by
consumers, in particular heavy fuel oil by industry, is expected to be sustained and
considerably expanded with the marketing of large quantities of gas from Bolivia.
Resilience of institutional achievements (improvements in tariffs, technical and safety
regulations, and in the organization and management of Comgas) is high, due to the
privatization of Comgas and the establishment by the State of S5o Paul0 of a competent
Energy Regulatory Commission (CSPE), which has already contributed to substantial
improvements in gas sector regulations in the state.

Bank Performance: Satisfactoy

27. Quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with government
and Bank priorities at the time, it was well grounded in economic and sector work, and
the policy, financial, and economic analyses were thorough. Perception of risks was
adequate, including risks of disruptions in supplies by Petrobras. However, although not
required at the time under Bank policy, the project design would have benefited from the
preparation of an environmental assessment, including a comprehensive assessment of
risk and of impact on neighborhoods, and a better evaluation of the existing network.
This would have helped identify the likelihood of the leakage and odor problems that
arose during project implementation, and to better plan the conversion component to
minimize noise and traffic disruptions. Project design also paid insufficient attention to
the institutional ability of Comgas to implement a project much larger than those it
implemented in the past, placing excessive reliance on consultants to manage the project,


10. Since 1998, an environmental agreement with the environmental agency (Termo de Ajuste de
Conducta) has been required as a condition of environmental licenses. This agreement includes a
requirement to carry out a comprehensive risk analysis. Such an agreement was recently signed between
Comgas and CETESB.

                                                       11


in the absence of adequate procurement, supervision, and control systems." Finally,
during negotiations, the Federal Government refused to commit to substantive pricing
reform. However, the Bank still hoped that advances could be made in these areas during
implementation, through discussions of the gas utilization study and periodic reviews of
compliance by Comgas with the financial covenants, but this proved unrealistic in the
legal and regulatory context at the time.

28. Bankperformance during implementation was satisfactory. Supervision missions
were frequent throughout implementation, with an adequate composition and good
continuity in Bank staff. The Bank maintained a consistent dialogue with Comgason
actions needed from Comgas to restructure itself, cut costs, rationalize its investment
program, prepare itself for private sector involvement (through opening up of its
shareholding structure), and de-commission, sell, or lease the SNG plant, and with the
Stae of Sao Paulo with respect to the Gas Utilization Study. The successive extensions of
the closing date were granted on the condition of substantial progress in these areas, and
progress was under constant review. The Bank paid considerable attention to safety
aspects, hiring a specialist consultant out of its own resources to advise Comgas on a
proper strategy to prevent gas leakage and ensuring that his recommendations were
implemented during network conversion. Although somewhat passive during the first
years of project implementation, the Bank subsequently became very proactive to resolve
procurement issues and disputes between Comgas and the State Auditor (Tribunal de
Contas) over the use of Bank standards. Finally, the Bank showed flexibility to amend
project design to support Comgas restructuring efforts, and to prioritize industrial gas
consumption (investments in assets with high rates of return and quick payback) over
residential use in the expansion component.



Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

29. Many of the factors which affected project implementation were not under the control
of COMGAS, the Borrower, but of thefederal government and its agencies. First there
were delays in loan signing of about one year, due to ongoing debt negotiations between
the Sgo Paul0 state government and the federal government, which needed to be
completed before the loan could be submitted for Senate approval. Then, macroeconomic
management made rational tariff setting impossible and eroded distribution margins over
the entire implementation period: Gas tariffs were frozen in 1990without compensatory
measures, then, very high inflation combined with delayed adjustments eroded
distribution margins, followed again by the freezing of gas tariffs under the Real Plan
between annual adjustments (while other costs continued to increase with inflation).
Strikes of Petrobras workers and other disruptions in gas supplies further affected
implementation.



to Comgas throughout implementation was very high, amounting to about US$33 million, compared to
11.For part I1 of the project, the cost of consultants for project management and other technical assistance
appraisal estimates of US$8.9 million.

                                                    12


30. Performance of the State of Si0 Paulo, COMGAS'mainshareholder,project co-
financier, and aparty to the Shareholder Agreement, was highly satisfactory, after a slow
start. The state government provided its share of counterpart funds in full and on time. In
January 1994,the state government established a commission of 18members, divided in
3 groups, to propose a draft concession law, and design technical, financial, price, and
tariff regulation12for the gas sector. The state government planned to enact regulations as
part of a new organizational, institutional, and regulatory framework that would include
the creation of a new regulatory body and a Code of Gas. In October 1995,the State
Secretariat had a proposal for a state energy regulatory commission as an independent
body, which would be responsible for approving electricity and gas tariffs, including
those of Comgas and future private concessionaires. A draft concession contract for
Comgas and a draft concession law were also prepared. The draft law was sent to the
State Legislature in April 1996,but its processing was delayed, given the ongoing debate
on the allocation of roles in the gas and power sectors between the federal and state
levels. In August 1996,the state government approved a Comgas convertible bond issue.
In early 1997,the state government decided to privatize Comgas. In October 1997,the
state's Energy Services Regulatory Commission (CSPE) was created. This agency is
considered today a model of professional management for state regulatory agencies in
Brazil. In 1999, an amendment to the State Constitution was passed, permitting private
gas distribution. Comgas was privatized by auction on April 14, 1999 (it was bought by
British Gas and Shell), and the Comgas concession contract was signed on May 31, 1999,
shortly before the loan was closed. Two more concession contracts have been signed with
other private concessionaires since.

31.Performance of Comgas, the borrower, was satisfactory overall, but uneven. In the
first four years of implementation, performance was mostly unsatisfactory. Delays in
project implementation and cost overruns characterized the 1990-94 period, due to
Comgas lack of experience, inadequate organization for procurement, poor project
management and cost control, and unclear definition of lines of responsibility between
Comgas and the project management firm. These problems, however, were largely solved
after 1994,when Comgas appointed a project director with sufficient authority to make
all project-related decisions. Although with considerable delays, and some changes in
scope of the various components, Comgas managed to complete the project mostly as
planned, including all of the complex conversion program, and without serious accidents.

32. Until 1995,Comgas management also made some questionable investment decisions,
including spending its own resources on duplicating some of Petrobras's pipeline
infrastructure (Santos-SEioPaulo, Suzano-Mogi das Cruces) and on the uneconomic
transformation of the gas manufacturing plant into a synthetic natural gas plant.
Subsequently, under new management, Comgas improved considerably. Faced with
smaller margins imposed by the Real Plan, it implemented various restructuring programs
to streamline its organization, cut costs, and improve efficiency and productivity.
Because of federal controls over tariffs, Comgas remained unable to comply with the loan
financial covenants. Nevertheless, in August 1996,Comgas successfully issued

12.At that point, the Secretary of Energy requested Bank assistance, but the assessment mission found no
record of a Bank response

                                              13


convertible debentures, which bondholders subsequently converted into preferential
shares.

BRAZILHYDROCARBON          TRANSPORT PROCESSINGPROJECT
                                         AND


Objectives and Design

33. The objectives of the project were to: (a) enhance natural gas utilization as a
substitute for other sources of energy with higher economic and environmental costs; (b)
reduce distribution costs of petroleum products by substituting pipelines for less
economical road and water transport; (c) reduce petroleum product losses through
process and production optimization; and (d) reduce environmental costs and safety risks
associated with petroleum product transportation and refinery processes. Subsequently, in
June 1996,an Amendment to the Loan Agreement expanded the scope of the original
project to include a technical assistance component to support the Brazilian
Government's strategy to reform the energy sector in Brazil. These reforms were to
contribute to achieving the project objective of enhancing natural gas utilization in Brazil.
They were aimed at enhancing effectiveness, competition, and private sector participation
in the power and oil and gas sectors A regulatory framework for the natural gas and
power sectors was also required to promote the development of the natural gas sector and
ensure the viability of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline project, which was then already under
active preparation.

34. In its original design, the project included the following components: (a) a transport
component, including the engineering, design and construction of a gas pipeline from the
Merluza field to Sao Paulo, and of three pipelines to distribute liquid petroleum products
more economically to distribution centers; and environmental impact studies and training
in pipeline operations and transportation planning; (b) a processing component consisting
of a hydrotreatment plant at Cubatao refinery, an industrial safety and environmental
program focused on the Cubatao area, and an automation program to improve process
and storage control systems in the refineries, to be implemented in three units as pilot
project.

35. Technical Assistance component added to the project in 1996 consisted of two sub-
components with a total allocation of US$15 million, later increased to US$20.5 million,
for: (a) hydrocarbon and costing and pricing studies; regulatory, organization and
planning studies for the oil and natural gas sectors; and training programs on such
matters; and (b) electricity costing and pricing studies; regulatory, organization and
planning studies for the Brazilian electric power sector; and training programs on such
matters.

Implementation

36. The project was fully implemented, at a total cost equivalent to 95 percent of
appraisal estimates. The original hydrocarbon transport and processing components were
implemented by Petrobras at a cost only 92 percent of appraisal estimates, despite a

                                                  14


substantial increase in the automation program. The technical assistance component
actually cost US$16.8 million, or 82 percent of funds allocated.

37. The loan was closed on December 31,2001, six years behind schedule, and was fully
disbursed. The closing date was extended five times: at first by two years, from
December 31,1995,to December 31, 1997,to make up for long delays in loan signing
(18 months-due      to delays in obtaining federal guarantee and Senate approval pending
settlement of outstanding debt of PETROBRAS to federal government entities) and to
implementation delays (6 months to renegotiate contracts when the currency changed in
1994).All investments were completed by the revised date. However, subsequently, the
loan closing date was extended four more times, to December 31,2001, to allow the
implementation of the new technical assistance component (initially expected to require
two years).

38. The technical assistance component introduced in June 1996had different
implementation arrangements for its two sub-components. For the power sector reform
sub-component, a Technical and Financial Cooperation Agreement between Petrobras,
Eletrobras, and the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) was signed on February 29,
1996. Implementation proceeded as planned, and funds allocated to this sub-component
and time schedule were further expanded in December 1997.This sub-component was
completed in 1999. The scope and output of the Technical Assistance Component are
further described in Annex B3.l3

39. Implementation of the hydrocarbon sector reform sub-component, however, fell
substantially behind schedule, which eventually affected its scope. Achievements under
this component are summarized in Annex B3. Arrangements to administer the funds were
made in December 1997, a year and a half after the amendment to the Loan Agreement,
with the Federal University of Campinas (Unicamp). However, during the subsequent
year and a half, the government, the Bank, and Unicamp were unable to agree on
Unicamp's administrative costs and contracting modalities for outside consultants. In
May 1999,the decision was made to shift the responsibility for the administration of the
funds to Eletrobras. In the meantime, the Hydrocarbon Law had been enacted (August
1997), and ANP had been established (January 1998).The component then suffered
additional delays due to other administrative obstacles. It was completed in February
2002. Eventually, only a third of allocated funds were used in support of ANP.

Ratings

Outcome: Satisfactory

40. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency are all
rated substantial. Overall relevance to the current CAS and country strategy, which would



13. The ICR did not cover implementationof this componentbecause it was not completed at the time of
ICR preparation.

                                                     15


be rated as modest on the basis of the project original objectives, is rated substantial due
to the incorporation of the large energy sector reform technical assistance component.

Relevance: Substantial

41. The project objectives were consistent with the country's developmentpriorities for
the sector at the time, which were to ensure energy supplies at least cost and reduce waste
(paras. 1to 3) and reduce environmental pollution. In the current context of fiscal
adjustment, priority to poverty reduction, and opening up of the oil and gas sector to
competition and to the private sector, two of the major objectives of the project (reducing
distribution costs of petroleum products and petroleum product losses in refineries) may
no longer be relevant to the country 's current developmentpriorities'#,as expressed in
the most recent CAS. However the other objectives of the project (encouraging
substitution of natural gas for other more polluting fuels, reducing environmental costs
and safety risks associated with petroleum product transportation and refinery processes),
still remain broadly relevant to some of the country's development objectives listed in the
current CAS" . Furthermore,supporting the design of the government energy sector
reform remains highly relevant to the country's objective of improving the regulatory
framework and enhancing competition and private sector participation in the sector.
While the project components in support of the two Petrobras cost and loss reduction
objectives account for about 90 percent of total actual costs, these same components also
have significant environmental objectives. Thus, on balance, relevance to the country's
current priorities remains substantial..

42. Relevance to the Bank's current country assistance strategy, of the project's original
objectives is modest. The current CAS limits the Bank's role in the energy sector to
supporting regulation and private sector participation; to selected investments critical for
competition; to catalytic support to develop viable models for rural energy, and to
technical assistance to develop alternative energy sources. No role is envisaged for the
Bank in commercial investments of the kind financed under the project. Regarding
environmental protection and management, the Bank's role is now limited to helping
strengthen institutions and assisting in developing priority setting methodologies. Except
for limited project assistance to Petrobras to improve its capability in environmental and
risk management, whose relevance is rated as modest, the relevance of the other original
project objectives is rated as negligible. However, the support to the Brazilian
Government's strategyto reform the energy sector in Brazil through the technical
assistance component introduced during implementation remains highly relevant, and


14. To the extent that efficiency improvements in Petrobras operations may no longer receive priority for
the granting of federal loan guarantees.
15.Country development objectives as listed in the 2000-2002 CAS include inter-alia: reducing
environmental pollution, integrating environmental concerns into other sectors, modernizing environmental
instruments and institutions; prioritizing environmental pollution problems; and developing and
implementing action plans to address them. In the Energy sector, objectives include completing
privatization ,improving the regulatory framework and competition, commercial investments in system
expansions, increased coverage and improvements in energy efficiency.

                                              16


justifies upgrading overall project relevanceto the Bank's current country assistance
strategy to substantial.

43. Overall relevance to both the country and Bank strategies is thus rated as substantial.

Efficacy:Substantial

44. Efficacy was substantial or high in reaching all the project objectives, as summarized
below:

45. Natural gas utilization as a substitutefor otherforms of energy with higher economic
and environmental costs: Substantial. The Santos-Siio Paul0 pipeline was implemented
and has been bringing between 0.9 and 1.9million m3per day of natural gas to Siio
Paulo. Despite the construction of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline (Gasbol) and the priority
currently given by Petrobras to distributing Bolivian gas to Siio Paulo, the GASAN
pipeline contributes to improve security of supply to Comgas .,as part of the gas pipeline
system of the Siio Paulo metropolitan area...

46. Reducing the distribution costs ofpetroleumproducts by substitutingpipelinesfor
less economical road and water transport:High. The three pipelines, totaling about 770
km. to transport petroleum products and alcohol between terminals and refineries, were
efficiently constructed. They have reduced more expensive and risky road and coastal
transport through the already overloaded Brazilian roads and ports, particularly in Siio
Paulo, Bahia, and Santa Catarina states. Environmental Assessments (EAs) have been
prepared for two of the pipelines, hearings held and recommendations implemented
including compensation programs. All are currently licensed for operation. A new
transport model was developed to facilitate.decisions on the optimum combination of the
various modes of transport.

47. Reducing petroleumproduct losses thoughprocess andproduction optimization:          -
High. The Hydrotreatment Plant (HDT) contributed to the optimization of the use of
refinery streams by converting lower-value gas oil streams, previously added to low-
quality fuel oil, into higher-value diesel, while recovering substantial quantities of
elemental sulfur (sold to the pharmaceutical industry). Since the HDT facilities started
operations, the Presidente Bernardes Refinery (RPBC) production of diesel for use in the
Siio Paul0 metropolitan and Santos areas increased from 1.33MMcm, averaging sulfur
content of 0.22 percent in 1997,to about 3 MMcm in 2002, with an average sulfur
content of 0.1 percent. In addition to improved quality diesel, the facilities have allowed a
sulfur production of 13,600tons in 1999and about 20,000 tons in 2000 and 2002. Based
on the experience in Cubatiio, Petrobras has already built HDT facilities in its Paulinia
refinery and is currently implementing two other units in the REPLAN refinery. Finallyas
a result of the study, Petrobras .implemented the recommendations of the Advanced
Control and Optimization (ACO) study carried out under the project not only in the
RPBC refinery but also in four other refineries under the project. Improved process and
storage control systems have allowed higher capacity utilization, lower product losses,
better quality, and improved safety and reliability of operation with fewer personnel.

                                              17


48. Reduce environmental costs and safety risks associated withpetroleumproduct
transport and refineryprocesses; High. (a) Quality improvement in the diesel produced
by RPBC and distributed in the S5o Paulo metropolitan and Santos areas .is likely to have
significantly contributed to the substantial reduction of sulfur dioxide concentration in
these areas (Annex B4). CETESB's monitoring report for 2001 shows that the monitoring
stations in the area report data below the ambient air standards of 365pg/m3in 24 hours
and 80pg/m3in a year. Furthermore, the new limit of 125pg/m3proposed by World
Health Organization (WHO) is already met in all the stations. (b) The risk analysis study
of the RPBC refinery was completed and modifications to the installations and to the
operational procedures were implemented as recommended resulting in lower risks of
accident. The ratio of accidents per million of man-hours in the Cubatgo refinery
decreased from 10.45 in 1996to 2.29 in 2001 and was expected to fall to about 1.35in
2002. Emergency plans and an oil spill contingency plan were developed, and emergency
training and information activities are being held weekly. (c) The recommendations of
the odor evaluation study at Cubat50 were implemented and emissions are now at
international standard level. No odor is now evident in the RPBC refinery and complaints
by neighbors are scarce. (d) The mobile laboratory allows Petrobras to more accurately
and cheaply monitor the impact of its operations on air quality in Cubat50, and to identify
the origin of the emissions. A model of atmospheric dispersion was developed and
statistical data are being collected under a contract with the Catholic University of Santos
and the University of S5o Paulo.

49. Supporting the Government'senergy sector reform through technical assistance:
Substantial. in the power sector, the technical assistance component substantially
contributed to the design of a new model and institutional structure for the power sector.
In the hydrocarbon sector, although the component failed to contribute to the design of a
model for the sector and of the regulatory agency, as originally intended, it nevertheless
contributed to the design of detailed regulations and monitoring systems in both the gas
and oil sub-sectors. Objectives and achievements under this component are presented in
Annex B3.

Efficiency: Substantial

50. The ICR re-estimated the economic rate of return at 20.7 percent, in line with
appraisal estimates (22.8 percent). Re-estimated rates of return for each component (14.9
percent to 43 percent) are also in line with appraisal estimates (16.3 percent to 37.8
percent). Petrobras confirmed that all investments under the project are in operation as
planned. It is not certain, however, that the Santos-S%oPaulo gas pipeline (GASAN) is
being used optimally. The original objective for this investment was to bring 1.5million
m3per day of non-associated gas from the Merluza field to S5o Paulo. Production from
Merluza reached 1.9million m3per day in 1997,but has declined since, to about 900,000
m3per day in 2000 and 2001. The reason is that Petrobras had to give priority to shipping
Bolivian gas to S5o Paulo, due to the terms of their Bolivian gas take-or-pay and ship-or-
pay contracts. The impact of this lower utilization of the pipeline in the past two years on

                                                   18


its economic rate of return is not clear16but may not be that substantial, given the lower-
than-expected costs of the pipeline, the higher-than-expected production rates of the
Merluza field between 1993 and 1999,and the integration of the GASAN pipeline into
the general gas transport network.

Institutional Development: Substantial

51. Power Sector. In the power sector, the institutional development impact of the
technical assistance component was substantial, as, between 1996 and 2000, it made
important contributions to the design and implementation of the new institutional and
regulatory model needed to implement the Government's reform program. The major
study and other later consulting services financed under the project contributed to the
theoretical definition of the model and the initial phase of its implementation. In these
stages, legal documents and norms were established for the creation of various supporting
institutions and associated regulations, such as: the National Electrical System Operator
(ONS) and the Electrical Energy Wholesale Market (MAE). The study also contributed
to detailing the responsibilities of ANEEL, the sector's new independent regulatory
agency, and to the preparation of directives for the restructuring of Eletrobras and general
guidelines for the privatization of its subsidiaries". Subsequently, Law 9648/98 was
passed, which incorporated the main elements of the model, and became the central piece
of legislation for the Brazilian power sector reform, followed by Decree 2655/98 which
regulated aspects of the law which related to ONS and MAE. Law 9648/98 defined inter-
alia the unbundling of the Eletrobras subsidiaries and its division in 20 new companies,
defined basic rules for competition, established freely negotiated energy exchanges,
created MAE and ONS, mandated the gradual phase out of previous long-term contract
and their substitution for freely negotiated bilateral contracts, and defined rules for
transmission tariffs. Subsequently, the Government at first made substantial headway
towards implementing the new model and establishing the required institutions, however,
implementation later lost momentum and flaws emerged in the regulatory framework, as
further detailed in Annex B3. Lack of investment in power generation caused by
incomplete implementation of the model, lack of planning, and imperfections in
regulations, combined with climatic factors, resulted in the 2001 energy crisis. The
Government has recently issued for debate a proposal for a new institutional model aimed
at correcting these deficiencies (Annex B3).

52.Hydrocarbon Sector. Due to delays, the impact of the technical assistance component
in the hydrocarbon sector was substantially less than planned originally: It was to
contribute to the design of a reform model for the gas sector, and of ANP, the sector
regulatory agency, but these had been established by the time project funds actually
became available. Nevertheless, the studies implemented under the project after the
establishment of ANP made important contributions to the design of a number of detailed
regulations for natural gas activities, the strengthening of ANP monitoring and control


16. The ICR does not provide information on the assumptionsused in re-estimating economic rates of
return and, for GASAN, uses cost and benefit streams without any relationship with appraisal estimates.
17. From MME's technical progress report as of July 31,2000.

                                               19


capabilities, and the establishment of operational safety rules and oil spill monitoring and
contingency planning.

53. Petrobras. On the financial side, the project contributed little to strengthening
Petrobras's financial systems and position. A Costing Division under the Financial
Services Department had been established in 1988to bring into operation an upgraded
costing system developed in conjunction with international consultants. The consultants'
diagnostic study and the implementation program were reviewed during project
preparation. The new system was to gradually introduce economic concepts to
complement existing financial information, thereby providing a fuller basis for decision-
making regarding pricing, operational policies, investments, and resource allocation.
Other goals included converting the system of cost centers to profit centers (which
should result in organizational restructuring) and segregating costs by project, product,
activity, organizational unit, and market. The new system, which was already under
implementation by the time of project approval, was to be implemented in phases and
was scheduled to be fully operational by December 31, 1993. Agreement was reached
that Petrobras would put into effect the new costing system by December 31, 1993,and
that the Bank, the government, and Petrobras would exchange views from time to time on
its implementation and application.

54. The costing system was implemented, with significant delays, but the project had no
role in the design of the system or on the rythm of its implementation. After the
Hydrocarbon Law was passed in 1997,Petrobras was substantially reorganized into
business areas and pricing of petroleum products was liberalized, as consequence of the
elimination of the Petrobras constitutional monopoly on the sector, the implementation of
the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline project, and new regulatory requirements for accounting
separation of activities. The liquidity position of Petrobras (which was substantially
below the covenanted level of 0.8 for the current ratio over most of the 1991-98period),
improved only with the end of price controls and the progressive elimination of overdue
receivables from the Government (to compensate for net cross-subsidies between
petroleum products).

55. In other areas, the project's institutional impact was more significant. During the
assessment mission, Petrobras praised the automation program designed under the
project, which was implemented in all refineries and made significant contributions
toward increased efficiency. Finally, at least in Cubatiio, the project contributed to
promote better risk management in refineries.

Sustainability: Likely

56. Sustainability of economic and financial benefits from the project investments is
likely, although there are some uncertainties regarding the sustainability of increased gas
use from the Merluza field. Sustainability of institutional improvements within Petrobras
aiming at better environment and risk management is likely, as Petrobras has made
significant progress toward the establishment of integrated management systems for

                                                    20


environment (IS0 14001),quality (IS0 9001), and safety and health (OHSAS 18001'8)in
its refineries, including CubatTio. Environmental benefits to the STio Paul0 area from the
operation of the HDT plant are sustainable, as the plant produces most of the diesel sold
in the area, and as other HDT plants have since been constructed in other refineries.

57. In CubatTio,sustainability of environmental benefits is also likely: the environmental
performance of RPBC has improved dramatically, partly due to the project, but also to
generally increased environmental consciousness throughout Brazil, and to the pressure
of state environmental authorities. This was confirmed by both CETESB and the
Environmental Secretariat of STio Paulo. The refinery has implemented the above
commented integrated management system and was re-certified in September 2002, an
indication of good environmental and safety management. The refinery is currently
operated professionally, but past environmental liabilities remain very important. An
Environment Agreement (Termo de Conducta), which includes a program for the
recovery of past liabilities, was agreed between Petrobras and CETESB and was expected
to be signed early in 2003. Finally, the recommendationsof the risk analysis carried out for
the CubatTiorefinery under the HydrocarbonTransport and Processing Project (HTPP)
were implemented; emergencyplans and an oil spill contingencyplan were developed,and
emergencytraining is regularlybeing held.Nine emergencycenters are maintainedby
Petrobras in Brazil, through a contractwith Alpina Briggs.

58. Sustainability of reforms and institutional changes supported by the project's
technical assistance component in the power and hydrocarbon sectors is more difficult to
assess. Although the contributions to reform made by technical assistance activities
under the hydrocarbon sector sub-component were relatively modest, their sustainability
is likely, as most have been incorporated in directives issued by ANP and/or into ANP's
systems and ongoing work programs. Sustainability of changes which were supported
under the power sector technical assistance sub-component will depend on how the new
model proposed by the current administration will in the end retain the positive aspects of
the earlier model while correcting its deficiencies. Extensive consultation processes and
transparency surround the articulation of the revised model, the objective of which
remains to encourage efficient private sector investment in system expansion.

Bank Performance: Satisfactory

59. Quality at entry was satisfactory, although marginally so. Besides the environmental
benefits of the project, the rationale for Bank participation was initially that it would give
the Bank an opportunity to engage with Petrobras and the government in a dialogue on
energy pricing issues. This failed, however, because, at negotiations, the government was
unwilling to accept any commitment to discuss these issues with the Bank and to commit
to base its pricing decision on the outcome of the Petrobras costing system. As
negotiated, the project had thus become marginally relevant to the Bank's country
strategy. With respect to the technical assistance component later incorporated to the

18.OHSAS is an Occupational Health and Safety Management System developed by a number of leading
national standard and certification bodies to be compatible with IS0 9001 and IS0 14001and facilitate
integration of such management systems.

                                                    21


project, the design of administrative arrangements for the hydrocarbon sector proved
inefficient.

60. With respect to safeguard policies, as a condition of disbursement for the pipelines,
the Bank requested evidence that Petrobras had received the approval of the
environmental impact assessment reports by the state and federal environmental
authorities. In addition, for two of the pipelines that crossed sensitive areas, the Bank also
required as condition of disbursement that the Bank should review the environmental
impact assessments before their approval by the authorities. For the HDT plant, no
mention is made of similar requirements in the Staff Appraisal Report or the Loan
Agreement. While these procedures would today fall short of requirements under OP
4.01, these did not yet apply to the project, as OD4.00, issued on October 31, 1989,was
applicable only to all projects that reached IEPS after October 15, 1989 (the project IEPS
was reviewed on September 12).An Installation License for the HDT plant was issued by
CETESB in July 1994 and sent to the Bank, which included detailed environmental
conditions and an obligation to implement the measures and recommendations listed in
the Risk Analysis (which was prepared together with the license application).

61.Bankpevformance during supervision was generally satisfactory, given the strong
implementation capabilities of Petrobras, although supervision missions were relatively
few and their composition limitedlg.The supervision of environmental aspects was
satisfactory, although it could have been more intensive for this type of project. All
required pipeline licenses were obtained, and all project investments are still operating
under valid licenses. The two required EIAs were reviewed by the Bank. The HDT plant
is currently licensed for operation as part of the RPBC license. Supervision of the
technical assistance component was not carried out by the project team, but was done in
connection with the preparation and supervision of the Gas Sector Development Project,
and the preparation of another power sector reform operation (which did not materialize),
so the Bank resources used do not appear in the ICR. However, excessive delays in the
implementation of the hydrocarbon sector reform component indicate that the Bank could
have been more proactive in resolving the administrative issues involved.

Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

62. The performance of Petrobras during preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. Initial signing and implementation delays were due to factors outside its
control. The project had initial serious coordination and reporting issues, but they were
eventually resolved and, in the end, this did not affect the efficient procurement and
implementation of its individual components. Petrobras received the necessary
environmental licenses for the pipelines and the HDT plant (licensed as part of the RPBC
refinery) and submitted to the Bank the EIAs for the two more sensitive pipelines, as
required under the Loan Agreement. Petrobras complied with all major covenants, except


19. Table 11 of the ICR, however, is not complete, as it excludes the staff resources used in the supervision
of the technical assistance component, and also two out of the three missions by the environmental
specialist.

                                              22


for the current ratio covenant during several years, but, as indicated in the ICR, this was
due to factors outside its control.

63. The performance of the government as guarantor was also satisfactory.However, the
reasons for the long delays in Senate approval and loan signing could have been detected
and addressed during project preparation. The performance of the government in the
implementation of the technical assistance component was generally satisfactory, but
uneven: the Energy Secretariat of MME carried out the studies associated with the power
sector reform efficiently, but MME's performance with respect to the administration of
the hydrocarbon sector TA sub-component had significant shortcomings (para. 40).

BRAZILGASSECTORDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

Objectives and Design

64. The objectives of the project were to (a) develop a gas market in SoutWSoutheast
Brazil; and (b) help create an export alternative for Bolivian gas.

65. Project components included the construction of a 3,137-km gas transportation
pipeline from Rio Grande (Bolivia) to Porto Alegre (Brazil), in three sections: (a) a 557-

project, but considered an integral part of it); (b) a 1,400-km trunk line from Corumba to
kmtrunk line in Bolivia from Rio Grandeto Corumba, Bolivia (not financed under the
Campinas, Brazil (with a lateral line to Guararema), and (c) a 1,180-km southern leg
from Campinas to Porto Alegre, Brazil. The project also included funds for the
implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), including social
compensation programs, an Indigenous Development Plan, and an Ecological
Compensation Program.

66. The Bolivian section of the pipeline is owned and operated by the Transbolivian Gas
Company (GTB), a mixed company with majority private ownership. The Brazilian
section is owned and operated by TBG, the borrower, a mixed company, with Gaspetro
(Petrobras Gas Subsidiary) owning 51percent of the shares. The project was financed by
the Bank (which financed the construction of the southern leg), the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB)(which financed the main trunk line), the Andean
Development Corporation (CAF), the European Investment Bank (EIB), Petrobras,
Brazil's National Development Bank (BNDES), and the private sector (in the form of
equity and subordinated loans).

Implementation

67. The project was implemented as planned, within costs (US$1,594.2 million, versus
US$1,650 million estimated at appraisal), and with only minor delays (6 months for the
main trunk line and 3 months for the southern leg).

                                                    23


Ratings

Outcome: Highly Satisfactory

68. The project remains relevant to the current Brazil and Bolivia CAS. Project
achievements are remarkable given the complexity of a project overlapping two countries
with different regulatory and legal structures, and an initial situation of uncertain reserves
in Bolivia, an undeveloped market in Brazil and large regulatory gaps. Efficacy was high.
Petrobras (as management contractor for the entire pipeline under contract with GTB and
TBG) and the sponsors (through their coordination committees) efficiently implemented
this very large and complicated project and did so in full compliance with Bank safeguard
policies, providing many examples of best practice in project implementation and
environmental management of large pipeline projects. The project provided an alternative
market for Bolivian gas, had a large impact on economic activity in Bolivia (Annex B6),
and led to the development of gas reserves in Bolivia much beyond expectations. It also
provided the backbone for a regional gas market, accelerated privatization and
subsequent major expansions in Comgas, and the creation of new gas distribution
companies along the pipeline. Actual gas uptakes in Brazilian markets fell short of
expectations, due to the impact of large changes in the exchange rate since appraisal,20
the 2001 energy crisis in Brazil, economic slow-down in Brazil, and contractual and
regulatory issues in power generation and gas distribution. However, efficiency remains
substantial, and a large upstream potential exists when these issues are resolved. These
ratings are generally consistent with IADB ratings as stated in the draft Project
Completion Report, which was handed to the assessment mission.21

Relevance: High

69. The project remains generally consistent with some of the country's development
objectives in the energy sector, as listed in the current Brazil CAS,22including to bring
about increased private sector participation, competition and improved regulation, and
promote further system expansion. The project is also consistent with the specific Bank
asistance strategyoutlined for the energy sector in the CAS matrix, which proposes Bank
support to regulation and private sector development, and to selected investments critical
to competition. Finally, the project is consistent with the Bolivia CAS (dated May 21,
1998)in which the Bank is to assist in enhancing the regulatory framework for key
infrastructure sectors and promote private sector participation. In both countries, the
project is also consistent with CAS objectives of improving environmental management.

 ~~     ~       ~                 ~




20. The exchange rate increased fromUS$l=R$1.03 at appraisal (June 1997),to US$l=R$2.3 at the time
of ICR preparation (May 2001), and to US$1=3.5 at the end of 2002. By mid-2003, the exchange rate had
fallen to about R$3.0 per USDollar.
21. This draft report rates Project Implementation as satisfactory, Sustainability as highly likely, and
Achievement of Development Objectives as probable. In the Comments received from IADB on the Bank
ICR, the project is ranked as highly satisfactory.
22. Country Assistance Strategy for the period 2000-2002 (Report 20160), extended to the first months of
2003 in the CAS Progress Report dated May 20,2002 (Report No. 24182-BR).

                                                  24


70. The project was fully consistent with Brazil's strategy at the time in the energy
sector, which viewed import of gas from Bolivia as key to significant increases in natural
gas use in Brazil (from 2% of primary energy supplies to at least 10%by 20lo), and the
pipeline as a backbone in the creation of a regional gas market. It was also consistent
with Government policies and strategies to encourage private sector participation in
energy supplies. It was also consistent with the Bank strategy at the time in the
infrastructure sector, which was to catalyze more private sector financing for needed
investments, assist in the design of sector reforms that ensure competition and efficiency,
and finance investments in critical infrastructure areas where market-based funding
appeared to be limited and where the Bank could be an honest broker in the resolution of
regulatory issues23.

Efficacy: High

Objective:Help Create an Export Alternativefor Bolivian Gas:EfJicacy:High

71. In 2002, Bolivian gas exports to Brazil (about US$300 million) already reached as
much as the peak value in current terms of Bolivian gas exports to Argentina during the
1982-86period, and more than twice the value in 1992. In 1999, gas exports had fallen
as low as US$10 million (Annex B6). Furthermore, the project provided a major impetus
to the development of Bolivian reserves, which have increased from 6 Trillion Cubic Feet
(TCF) in 1997to 52 TCF in 2003, much above those required to fill the pipeline to its
maximum capacity of 30 MMcmd. Bolivia is currently analyzing the feasibility of
developing additional markets for their large gas surplus, including the production of
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) for export to North America.

Objective:Develop a GasMarket in South/Southeast Brazil :EfJicacy: Substantial

72. Gas exports from Bolivia to Brazil through the pipeline started in 1999(with a six-
month delay). In 2002, they amounted to a total average of 12.1MMcmd, including 11.1
MMcmd imported by Petrobras and about 1MMcmd through a lateral pipeline
connecting to the project pipeline in Bolivia to deliver gas to the Cuiaba power plant.
While a substantial achievement, the volumes imported by Petrobras in 2002 were only
about 70 percent of appraisal estimates. While the gas market in industry is expected to
reach original targets, though with some delay, there are now considerable uncertainties
regarding potential power generation markets. The main reasons for these developments
include slow economic growth, depressed power demand after the 2001 energy crisis, the
large currency devaluation since 1999, and increases in international oil prices, which
have affected the competitiveness of Bolivian gas in some markets, and a number of
contractual and regulatory issues in the gas and power markets. These factors are further
analyzed below and in Annexes B1. and B3. If current conditions persist, a number of
years may be required to reach the level of 24 MMcmd, which was expected at appraisal
to be reached by 2007.

Environmental Management: EfJicacy: High

23. Country Assistance Strategy, June 12, 1997 (Report No. 16582-BR).

                                               25


73. Compliance with Bank safeguard policies was complete. The EA included a
thorough analysis of alternatives, which helped avoid resettlement and fragmentation of
natural forests and wetlands, and minimize the need to open new access roads. Advanced
construction methods were used in sensitive areas. An Environmental Management Plan
and Indigenous People Development Plans (IPDPs) were prepared and implemented in
both Brazil and Bolivia, along the pipeline's entire length. Social compensation programs
and ecological compensation programs were designed and implemented in communities
along the right of way, in consultation with affected communities. TBG and GTB have
received the 2001 award from the International Association of Impact Assessment, for
excellence in environmental management and in the use of impact assessments in the
design and construction of the pipeline. Organizational arrangements were established to
ensure compliance with the EMP during construction. These arrangements and
community participation in monitoring compliance were further improved during project
implementation after international NGOs and local communities brought to the attention
of the multilateral agencies and sponsors a number of deficiencies and resulting negative
impacts in one of the local communities in Bolivia (El Carmen), which were
subsequently corrected (Annex B8, Box 1).At the time of the assessment mission, all
programs had been completed, except for right of way re-vegetation activities in Bolivia,
some land titling activities, and some ecological compensation programs under the
responsibility of the Brazilian Institute for the Environment (IBAMA) or state
environmental agencies. However, all actions were expected to be completed in due time
and funds were deposited in an escrow account.

Efficiency: Substantial

Economic Rate of Return

74. The cost-benefit analysis in the Staff Appraisal Report was based on the assumption
that the pipeline would have a maximum gas flow of 24 MMcmd by year 2007,
consistent with the configuration of the pipeline developed under the project (although
the pipeline was designed to have a maximum capacity of 30 MMcmd, the project
financed only investments required to carry 24 MMcmd in a first stage-the    additional
investments necessary to expand the pipeline's capacity to 30 MMcmd were not part of
the project. Out of these 24 MMcmd, a total of 9.55 MMcmd was to be used for power
generation, and the balance of 14.45MMcmd for other uses (mostly industry). The
economic rate of return was estimated at 21 percent.

75. The ICR, which was prepared in mid-2001, during the energy crisis, reflected
expectations that the gas uptake ramp-up would be accelerated to provide gas for the
government's thermoelectric program, for which Petrobras had already contracted the
pipeline's remaining capacity of 6MMcmd (TCX) above the 24MMcmd already
committed in the first stage (TCQ and TCO). The ICR revised estimates are based on 30
MMcmd, and also take into account the costs of installing the required additional
compression capacity. The additional use in power generation was to more than
compensate for the lower than expected initial uptakes in the non-power markets (as a
result of slower growth than planned). The economic rate of return was re-estimated at 22
percent.

                                                       26


76. However, the 2001 energy rationing program has resulted in shifting the power
demand curve down, and power consumption in 2002 was back at its 1998 level. Most
analysts (including ANP and ONS) now estimate that there will be surplus generation
capacity until 2006-07. Furthermore, the large devaluation of the exchange rate (which
affects the local currency price of gas as well as its transport cost) has substantially
increased the cost of delivered Bolivian gas and affected the competitiveness of gas-
based power generation compared with hydropower generation (both existing and new),
which represents close to 90% of the Brazilian power supply capacity. Slow economic
growth and a number of contractual and regulatory issues in the gas and power sectors
have been constraining faster development in the industrial as well as the power markets.
These are further commented in Annex B3 .

77. In this report, a sensitivity analysis was carried out on the economic rate of return
estimated in the PAD, to test the resilience of project economic benefits to current
prospects of lower growth in industrial gas markets and uncertain prospects in gas use
for power generati~n~~.Detailedassumptions and results are presented in Annex B1. This
analysis is based on the project in its original configuration, Le., with investment and
operating costs sized to ship up to 24 MMcmd, and an average crude oil price of US$18
per barrel over the life of the project, as in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), and
on PAD'Sestimated average net-back values of gas from substitute fuels in the end
market. Under a base case scenario, where a number of thermoelectric power plants
already existing in 2003 in the pipeline's area of influence, totaling about 1,600MW of
capacity, are progressively economically dispatched starting 2006, and the industrial
market continues to grow at 3% per year, the rate of return is about 15%, compared to
21% at appraisal. Under the most pessimistic scenario, where power generation from
Bolivian gas is uneconomic even beyond 2006, and the non-power market continues to
grow only at 3 percent per annum, the economic rate of return would decrease to 13.5
percent, indicating that project benefits are substantially resilient to important changes in
market prospects. When including the cost of subsequent pipeline capacity expansion, as
in the ICR, to the base case scenario, the rate of return is 11percent. These rates are
sensitive to international oil prices. When net-back values of natural gas are based on oil
prices of around US$25 per barrel (as in 2002), the rate of return for the base case
increases from 15%to about 18%.

78. With respect to the southern leg, the PAD had estimated the economic rate of return
at 27 percent, based on a maximum gas flow of 9.7 MMcmd. This estimate was revised
downwards in the ICR to 20 percent, based on a lower gas flow of 6.15 MMcmd, in light
of slower than expected development in industrial markets. In this report, a sensitivity
analysis based on ICR estimates was prepared, using a maximum gas flow in line with



24. These estimates are of the authors only, and are not intended to be accurate revised estimates of the
project's economic rate of return, but rather tools to test the resilience of project benefits. Also, these are
not estimates of the project'sfinancial rate of return, which is not affected by the value of gas and of
substitute fuels in the end-market. Finally, they do not take into account the fact that the gas uptake ramp
up in the pipeline may substantially accelerate depending on regulatory changes, as recently proposed by
the Government as part of its Proposal for a revised model for the electrical sector.

                                                  27


the ICR estimate, but with no growth in the power market in the period 2003-06. The re-
estimated rate of return for the southern leg under these assumptions is 13percent.

79. The assumptions used in testing the project's economic rate of return are
conservative, because they assume that (a) the level of enforcement of environmental
regulations remains the same as presently-yet,          many have argued that stricter
enforcement of regulations could significantly accelerate gas uptake by the industrial
market; (c) savings in power consumption following the 2001 energy crisis would be
permanent; (d) the gas supply agreement with Bolivia will remain with the same terms,
making it impossible for Bolivian suppliers to offer cheaper gas-given              the sensitivity of
gas use to price, gas consumption could be much higher if prices to users could be
reduced; and (e) the regulatory framework in the gas and power sector remains
unchanged.. The potential for better returns is high if current constraints to increased gas
use are eliminated. The Government is currently reviewing these issues (para. 81).

Financial Rate of Return

80. TBG and GTB are largely protected against market risks by ship-or-pay contracts
with Petrobras, now covering the entire pipeline capacity (30 MMcmd). The ICR
recalculated the IFRR accordingly, to 10.4percent (real) and 14.3percent (nominal),
compared to 9.0 percent (real) and 12.9percent (nominal) estimated in the PAD on the
basis of contracts covering up to 24 MMcmd.

Institutional Development Impact: High

81.In the long maturation period between 1993,when the GSA was signed, and 1997,
when financing arrangements were firmed up, the need to ensure the viability of secure
private sector participation in this highly visible project contributed positively to the
national debate about reform and the formulation of the Government's policy in the
natural gas sector. It also became clear that some fundamental sector reforms which were
already under debate in Brazil, such as the elimination of Petrobras's monopoly in the
hydrocarbon sector (approved in a Constitutional Amendment in 1995),the approval of
the Hydrocarbon Law in 1997, and the establishment of an independent regulator, were
also needed to mobilize private capital, obtain financing, and ensure successful
development and operation of the project. Price liberalization of petroleum products
competing with natural gas was also essential to the development of gas markets. In
November 1997,the Government formulated its policies for the gas sector in a
document2',which outlined the steps and government program to implement relevant
provisions in the Hydrocarbon Law and included a well-balanced set of measures aimed
at reconciling the need to mitigate the risks assumed by Petrobras on already contracted
volumes of gas from Bolivia, with the need to promote competitive gas markets in the
medium term. This document established steps towards petroleum product price de-
regulation and liberalization (which was to be completed by December 2001), the
development of AM's regulatory capacity, the separation of gas transport from gas


 ~        ~    ~~




25. Policy Letter, dated November 1997, annexed to the PAD and referred-to in the Loan Agreement.

                                                     28


trading activities, the promotion of competitive gas markets through open accessrules,
including on part of the pipeline's capacity, and the rationalization of the gas pricing
system26.Many of these measures were implemented. Prices were liberalized, effective
December 2001. Principles for domestic gas pricing and gas transport tariffs were
developed by ANP, as well as licensing and access rules to ensure the development of
competitive gas markets, which will eventually support efficient development of future
gas transport capacity. The project also contributed to the separation of gas transportation
activities, since, for the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline, it led to the creation of TBG, a
separate gas transport company with significant (though not majority) private sector
participation. Finally, at state level, the large investments required to absorb Bolivian gas
led all the states in the pipeline's area of influence to completely or partially privatize
their existing gas distribution companies (in particular Comgas), or award gas distribution
concessions to the private sector, and to develop their own regulatory capabilities (such
as in the State of Siio Paulo, the major market, where CSPE was established in 1998
(para. 1S).. Finally, the project also contributed to improved environmental management
of other gas pipeline projects in Bolivia and Brazil.

82. Against these substantial advances, some important plans stated by the Government
in support of the project in the policy letter were not implemented: There is still no
effective open access to the project pipeline because, at the government's request,
Petrobras contracted all excess capacity to supply thermal plants under the Priority
Thermo Electrical Program (PPT). Furthermore, despite access rules developed by ANP,
effective access has been constrained by Petrobras preferential rights under the pre-
existing gas purchase and ship-or-pay agreements2'. Petrobras has reinforced its vertical
integration upstream into gas production in Bolivia (for which it also has priority access
in the aggregation of gas volumes by YPFB) and downstream into power generation and
gas distribution as a way to mitigate the large risks taken in project financing and
contracting of gas2'(Petrobras has significant shareholdings in most local distribution
companies, with the notable exception of Comgas). Petrobras thus has de-facto complete
control over the pipeline gas flows. Finally, gas transport tariffs based on distance were
never applied to any part of the pipeline capacity, and the intended reduction of
ownership of Petrobras in TBG to a minority shareholding did not materialize.

Sustainability:Likely

83. Although efficiency is lower than originally estimated, sustainability of economic
benefits is likely, and could be substantially enhanced if some of the bottlenecks to


26. Establishment of a gas pricing system for both domestic and imported gas that separates the gas cost
from the transport cost, and incorportaes a distance-based element in gas transport tariffs (beyond the initial
18MMcmd of Bolivian gas).
27. Although ANP granted temporary access to two other importers, actual access has been constrained by
these provisions.
28. It is aknowledged that the project would not have materialized should Petrobras not have been willing
to assume these risks and, faced with reluctance of private investors, advance most of the financing for the
Bolivian portion of the pipeline

                                              29


increased gas flows were removed. Many of the current competitiveness issues of
Bolivian gas can be traced back to the rigid conditions in the contract that was signed by
Petrobras and YPFB in February 1993, at a time where incentives were required to
encourage development of additional gas reserves, in particular to the single price
established in the Bolivian gas pool., These matters may be resolved during the
upcoming contract re-negotiations to reflect changing market conditions. Sustainability of
gas penetration objectives is also likely to be enhanced, including by promoting increased
gas-to-gas competition (from Argentina and Brazil itself), if current regulatory and access
issues are resolved. If the project pipeline effectively becomes the backbone of a regional
gas network, shipping large volumes of gas of various origins, transport tariffs as well as
gas costs will decrease to levels at which more of the large potential Brazilian gas market
can be realized.

84. Sustainability of institutional development is likely, because the regulatory agencies
(particularly ANP and the S3o Paul0 state regulatory agency) are autonomous and have
already built substantial capabilities. In addition, the current administration has declared
its intention to promote changes that will enhance the efficiency and sustainability of the
regulatory institutions, and eliminate conflict of interest in their functions.

85. Environmental sustainability is likely: Sustainability of actions aimed at mitigating
direct environmental impacts and ensure operational safety is very likely, because both
TBG and GTB have obtained (TBG), or requested (GTB), IS0 14001 certification for
their environmental management systems. TBG has obtained operation licenses from the
various Brazilian authorities involved along the pipeline and is complying with license
conditions.

86. The sustainability of social compensation programs, however, is more uncertain. The
assessment mission encountered a broad range of situations across communities. On the
one hand, in Brazil's Santa Catarina state, the mission visited a municipal school built
under the project which was not only functioning well, to the satisfaction of municipal
authorities as well as the community, but which the local government was already
expanding out of its own resources. On the other hand, the social infrastructure
investments visited in El Carmen (Bolivia) were not maintained properly, and the
surgical equipment for the local hospital provided under the project was still in its boxes,
three years after being received. This wide variation of situations would tend to indicate
that the design of social compensation programs should not apply a blueprint approach
across countries (Bolivia's municipalities being a lot poorer and less developed
institutionally than in Brazil's southern states) and indigenous groups (Bolivia's
indigenous communities being a lot more organized and socially mobilized than
Brazil's). Furthermore, the wishes of local communities, especially when represented
only by their local governments, may not be a sufficient criteria to ensure that social
compensation funds will meet communities' priorities and be put to proper use, and
stronger evidence of ability to operate and maintain the requested infrastructure, larger
community involvement, and follow-up, may be needed to ensure sustainability.

87. Regarding IPDP, the co-management of the IPDP by indigenous communities in the
Kaa Iya Chaco National Park in Bolivia is highly sustainable, as it builds upon the

                                                  30


community's conservation priorities and skills and on funding of operational costs and
improvements from a trust fund. Generally, the most sustainable programs in both
countries seemed to be land purchase and titling programs, although they took longer to
materialize, due to long legal land title clearance and registration procedures. The mission
also heard some complaints that technical assistance and funding of productive activity
development programs in indigenous communities needed to extend beyond two years to
bear fruit for all involved. Finally, in some instances, the differential treatment of
indigenous communities (which received substantially more under IPDP than other
affected communities) and equally affected, equally poor, and not too different,
neighboring communities, has been reported to have created social tensions where they
did not exist before.

88. Finally, the indirect impacts may be substantial, as oil and gas exploration and
production activities encouraged by the project in Bolivia are often located in sensitive
areas, and oil spills have been reported in a number of locations. As commented in Annex
B8. The Bank is helping the Bolivian Government to address these issues through the
LIL project.

Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactoy

89. Quality at entvy was high. There was a good mix of technical, financial, economic,
environmental and regulatory skills. The Bank played an important role as anchor lender
to attract co-financing. Preparation was well grounded in economic and sector work29.
There was extensive dialogue with the Government on sector issues, in particular on how
to conciliate the terms of the already signed Gas Purchase Agreement with the need to
promote sound access and tariff rules for at least a portion of the pipeline; to promote
private sector participation in and eventually ownership of, the pipeline; and to develop
an efficient regulatory framework, including an autonomous regulatory agency that could
promote competitive gas markets in future expansions as well. The Bank also paid
considerable attention to the environmental impact assessment process. All key issues
and risks were well identified, and researched through appropriate studies. The only
significant shortcomings were that the economic analysis did not test the project's
viability to large exchange rate fluctuations. Also, perhaps the project team should have
looked sooner into the interface between the power and the gas sector regulations, in
particular for the development of secondary gas markets, the extent of coordination
required between the two federal regulatory agencies, and the capacity of states to design
and award gas distribution concessions with adequate tariff structures and clear
expansion goals. Nevertheless, these matters were to be addressed under five important
studies, the terms of reference of which were developed by the team and incorporated for
financing under HTPP.

90. Bankperformance during implementation was highly satisfactory. There was
excellent continuity in Bank staff, as the same project preparation and appraisal team
continued to supervise the project until closure. Bank supervision was heavily focused on


29. Natural Gas Pricing and Regulatory Study, October 25, 1996(Report No. 12772-BR)

                                                 31


ensuring good environmental management, and coordination with IADB and other
lenders was excellent. The continued and intense participation in the project team of
environmental and social specialists (in close coordination with IADB's specialists) from
early during project preparation until project completion helped ensure the exemplary
implementation of its environmental and social management plan and compliance with
Bank safeguard policies. The Bank was supportive of the NGOs that pointed out negative
social impacts during construction and,jointly with co-lenders and sponsors, promoted
changes in institutional arrangements needed to avoid recurrence of such problems. The
Bank also followed up on implementation of the government's policies on the sector, but
could not prevent the abandonment of distance-based tariff principles when Petrobras
contracted the TCX.

Borrower Performance: Satisfactoy

91. The performance of TBG as borrower and pipeline operator was highly satisfactory.
The performance of Petrobras during project preparation, as the entity responsible for
project preparation and for promoting project development, and as co-financier, was
highly satisfactory. It is widely acknowledged that the project materialized because of
the strong commitment of Petrobras and its willingness to assume risks and provide
financing (in particular by advancing funds for, and constructing, the Bolivian section of
the pipeline), when the private sector was reluctant to take substantial risks given
uncertainties in Bolivian gas reserves. The performance of Petrobras (as management
contractor) and TBG during implementation, was also highly satisfactory, as the project
was completed within costs and with minor delays. This was a major achievement for
such a large project overlapping two countries and with such complicated ownership
structure and financing plan. With respect to environmental management of the project,
during preparation, Petrobras was very responsive to the demands by multilateral
institutions to improve upon the environmental assessment and management processes.
Despite initial problems in Bolivia, the environmental management of the project by
Petrobras, GTB and TBG during implementation and the initial phases of operation was
also satisfactory.

92. Performance of the federal government in establishing a regulatory and institutional
framework conducive to gas develoment was satisfactory. The passing of difficult
constitutional changes and of the Hydrocarbon Law were major achievements. The
Government subsequently implemented many of the important policies which were stated
in the November 1997Policy Letter, as previously commented, but not all.. Policy
Decisions made in connection with the PPT programprevented the application to the
project pipeline of policies to promote competitive gas markets, ensure effective open
access and promote distance-based tariffs, as had been originally intended.. Finally,
Petrobras continues to remain the majority owner of TBG, running against initial
objectives to separate the gas supply and transportation functions.

93. There were also significant delays in the approval of the US$l80 million Partial
Credit Guarantee (PCG) Operation3',which was first approved as part of the original

30. Report and Recommendation of the President, dated November 28,2000 (No. P7407-BR).

                                              32


financing plan of the project, and the detailed terms of which were approved by the Bank
in December 2000. At the end of March 2003, the notes had still not been issued. In two
opportunities, the timing of the notes issue was missed due to very long delays in
approving the operation internally (first, 6 months between December 1997 and mid-
1998,then 20 months between December 2000 and August 2002). In both opportunities,
the timing of bond issues was missed because, the Asian, then Russian, then Brazilian,
crises had led to a considerable increase in the country risk and the terms would have
increased to prohibitive levels. The operation was suspended and has not been carried out
to this date. In order to close the financing gap, TBG entered into much shorter term
bridge loans and advances, thus raising its costs and, eventually, the transportation tariff.
This also prevented the divestiture of Gaspetro's majority shares in the pipeline, on the
grounds that the federal government could guarantee the PCG operation only for a public
company.

                                              33


3.      Lessons

94. Bank involvement in large and complex national or cross borderpublic-private,
infrastructureprojects involving a spectrum ofpolitical, regulatoy,financial,
environmental and social risks, can bring substantial value added to the county. Inthe
complex bi-national Gas Sector Development Project (GSDP), the Bank contributed to
the management of such risks and played an important role in bringing together other
multilateral financial institutions, in ensuring that comprehensive environmental and
social management and compensation programs were prepared in both countries, and that
they were implemented. The project also facilitated the dialogue with the Brazilian and
Bolivian Governments on important policy issues in the hydrocarbons sector. However,
experience under the three investment projects supported in Brazil in the hydrocarbon
sector shows that only a large, strategic, project of this kind, with significant impact on
all stages of sector development, can lead to a constructive dialogueon important policy
and regulatory changes. The other two projects (SPNGDP and HTPP) were not
sufficiently strategic to bring about such changes, although they did help prepare the
ground for the GSDP, contributed to enhance its feasibility, and assisted in the
preparation of a regulatory framework.

95. In large, complex infrastructureprojects, it is very important to secure allfunds
necessay for project development ahead of time to avoid that financing gaps develop
during implementation and lead to unsatisfactory contractual and financial structures. In
the GSDP, the failure by the private partners on the Bolivian side to secure funding for
the construction of the Bolivian portion of the pipeline made them dependent on
Petrobras to provide such funding, in exchange for additional reserved capacity, running
against open access goals. Also, the failure to materialize the parallel Partial Credit
Guarantee Operation not only impacted negatively on the financial condition of TBG but
has also prevented the divestiture of Petrobras' majority control in TBG.

96. In complex investmentprojects involving manypartners and tight schedules, key
policy and institutional matters are better addressed up-front.This was the case with
GSDP, where full Government ownership was demonstrated through the prior approval
of key reforms and policies. Also, Petrobras provided up-front commitment to the
implementation of EMP and execution of the environmental and social management
programs in Bolivia, ensuring compliance with Bank safeguard policies all along the
pipeline. As project implementation proceeds, it becomes very difficult to enforce policy
agreements, as evidenced under the SPNGDP..

97. Sector regulation should precede gas supply and transportation contracts, not the
reverse. In the case of GSDP, the Gas Supply Agreement was signed several years before
the regulatory frameworks for the gas sector were established in Bolivia and Brazil.
Priority supply and access rules established in the contract have impacted on the
applicability of the open access rules included in both countries' regulations. Also,
development of gas markets requires compatible regulatory frameworks upstream and
downstream of gas transportation, in particular, in gas distribution activities and in the
power sector

                                               34


98. Uneven distribution of risks and excessive rigidities in contracts haveperverse
effects because theyprovide incentives to vertical integration and thereby reduce
competition:in the GSDP, risk taking was concentrated on the gas buyer, which
motivated the development of mitigation strategies on its part through involvement
upstream (including finding more reserves in Bolivia) and downstream (involvement in
thermoelectric plants and local distribution companies). Gas producers are also expected
to take part of the market and foreign exchange risks. Also, gas supply agreements need
to incorporate sufficient flexibility so that gas pricing and adjustment formulae can adapt
to changing conditions in supply and demand.

99. Cleanfuels can be more competitive if appropriate environmental standards and
strong control and enforcement systems exist in the consumption markets. Use of low
sulfur diesel and natural gas produced, or made available, in the State of S2o Paul0 under
the three projects, owe a lot to the efforts of the state environmental agency, which has
succeeded in noticeably reducing the concentration of sulfur dioxide in the air. Effective
environmental regulation and enforcement is a condition for gas markets development.
Industrial use of natural gas in Brazil would accelerate if environment enforcement was
further strengthened in all states under the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline's influence.

100.    Earlypreparation of a comprehensive and in-depth Environmental Assessments
(EAs), including an assessment of indirect and cumulative impacts, in line with Bank
Guidelines, is important to influenceproject design and ensure optimum definition and
implementation of environmental, social, safety and health measures. The Bolivia-Brazil
pipeline project, which followed the Bank's safeguard policies and Operational
Directives, is exemplary. In contrast, although not required at the time under Bank policy,
the project design of the Silo Paulo Gas Distribution Project would have benefited from
the preparation of an Environmental Assessment and avoided important delays and
additional costs. Also, an earlier assessment of the indirect cumulative impacts of the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline as part of the EA process, particularly in Bolivia, or preferably, a
prior sectoral EA in Bolivia, could have permitted to address such impacts earlier as part
of project design and loan conditions.

101.    Environmental inspectors need strong authority to ensure environmental
compliance by contractors and improvement of overall environmental management
during construction. Experience under the GSDP showed that they must be able to
require contractors to make immediate environmental improvements in case of non-
compliance, subject to appeal to a higher but agile authority; and suspend construction
work in cases of serious environmental problems, as per a pre-defined list of infractions
or events.

102.    Excellent results can be achieved during implementation of large and complex
projects if the environmental and social management system includes both an
independent environmental auditor and an independent ombudsperson. The
ombudsperson is in charge of the protection of individual and community rights, and of
proactively interacting with NGOs and communities. Initially, during implementation of
the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, these functions were the responsibility of the environmental
auditor. However, very soon, it became apparent that these functions required different

                                             35


professional skills and that the environmental auditor was unable to improve the dialogue
between stakeholders, project sponsors and financing institutions.

103.    Early involvement of civil society in the design, implementation and monitoring of
the environmental and social mitigation and compensation programs is essential to
quickly identifi all relevant stakeholders and avoid later development of conflicts. Under
the GSDP project, clear participation mechanisms including: consultation and
participation procedures, dissemination of all relevant project information in a timely and
accessible manner; and provision of resources to support the participation of stakeholders
that cannot afford its cost, helped ensure proper design and successful implementation of
these programs.

104.    Involvement of international and local NGOs canpositively influence the
implementation of large and complexprojects, and help ensure application of the Bank's
safeguards policies, when combined with financiers'and sponsors' receptiveness to
criticism and willingness to address environmental and social issues. The consultation
and participation process of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline project was improved by such
pressure from international and local NGOs.


                                            37                                      Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data
GASSECTORDEVELOPMENTPROJECT(LOANSCL-42650)


                                         Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
                                          estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            1650.0                1594.2                   96.6
Loan amount                                     130.0                 130.0                  100.0
Cofinancing                                    728.0                  807.1                  111.0
Cancellation
Institutional Derformance


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                    wma              FYI999              FYZOOO          FYZOOI
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                   12                 92                 130
Actual (US$M)                                                                                 130
Actual as % of appraisal                                                                      100




                                                Original                       Actual
Project Concept Document                                                      12/19/1996
Negotiations
Board approval                                                                1211811997
Signing                                                                       1211711998
Effectiveness                                  03/20/1999                    0511711999
Closing date                                   12/31/2000                     12/31/2000




                              Total
Identification/Preparation         131.3
Appraisal and Negotiations          53.7
Supervision                         83.9
Other (ICR)                          6.0
Total                              274.9

                                                 38                                Ann-exA


Mission Data
                    Date      No. of Staff days Specializations Performance Rating  Types of
                (monthlyear) persons  in field   represented       rating   trend   problems

Identification/ 2/95        4                  TM,E,S,F
Preparation
                4/95        2                  TM,S
                5/95        1                  TM
                9/95        1                  TM
                12/95       1                  TM
                3/96        2                  TM,F
                5/96        1                  TM
                7/96        1                  TM
                10196       8                  TM,F,E,S,
                3/97        7                  TM,E,S,F
                5/97        6                  TM,F,S,E,L
Appraisal       6/97        8                  TM,F,S,F,Env,L
                7/97        1                  Env
                8/97        1                  Env
                9/97        2                  TM,Env
                11/97       1                  TM
Supervision     2/98        3                  Env             HS
                3/98        1                  TM              HS
                5/98        1                  Env             HS
                6/98        1                  TM              HS
                9/98        2                  TM,Env          HS
                2/99        1                  Env             HS
                4/99        1                  Env             HS
                8/99        3                  TM, Env         HS
                9/99        1                  TM              HS
                10199       2                  TM, Env         HS
                12/99       1                  TM              HS
                3/00        1                  TM              HS
                5/00        2                  TM, Env         HS
                6/00        2                  s,c             HS
                 11/00       1                 TM              HS
Completion      12/00       2                  TM, Env         HS
                3101        2                  TM, S           HS


TM: Task Manager
C: Consultant
E: Economist
Env: EnvironmenUSocialSpecialist
F: Financial Analyst
L: Laegal Specialist
S: Energy Specialist

                                                    39                                      Ann.exA


SAoPAULONATURAL                    GASDISTRIBUTIONPROJECT(LOAN3043-BR )


                                                  Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                  estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            285.2          270.8                 95
Loan amount                                    94.0           94.0                  100
Cofinancing                                    90.0           79.4                  88
Cancellation
Institutional performance


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                             FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97  FY98   FY99     R O O
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    1      43     70    84     90     94
                             7
Actual (US$M)                       12     20   26      35     51     63      79    92     94       94
Actual as % of appraisal     0      28     29    31     39     54     67      84    98     100      100
Date of final disbursement:




                                                         Original                      Actual
Initial Executive Project Summary                                            02/11/1987
Negotiations                                 8/87                            5/27/88
Board approval                               10187                           4/25/89
Signing                                                                      2116/90
Effectiveness                                5116/90                         6112/90
Closing date                                 6130195                         8/31/99


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                      Total
Preparation to Appraisal1        125.6
Appraisal and
Negotiations                     71.6
Supervision                      242.0
Other (completion)               5.0
Total                            554.8

                                                  40                               Annex A


Mission Data
                    Date     No. of Staff days Specializations Performance Rating    Types of
                (month/vear) Dersons in field     represented     rating   trend     problems

Identification/ 12/96       7       11          ES,F,N
Preparation
                2/87        4       25          N/A
Appraisal       12/87       7       16          ES,F,N
Supervision     3/90        1       5           F              1
                8/90        3       5           F,E,N          1
                3/91        2       3           FIN            1
                12/91       2       8           F,N            1
                4/92        2       12          F,N            3                  M
                12/93       4       13          F,N,E,P        U                  M
                8/94        3       8           F S            U                  M
                12/94       4       5           F,N,S,P        U                 P
                3/95        4       5           F,N,P,PA       U                  M,F


                5/96        2       4           F S            U                  P,F
                3/97        1       4           F              S                 P
                10198       1       4           F              S                  F
                5/99        1       1           F              S                 P
Completion      5/99        1       2           F              S


SDecializations                           TvDe of Problems
E: Economist                              F: Financial
S: Energy Specialist                      P: Procurement
F: FinancialAnalyst                       T: Technical
N: Engineer                               M: Managerial
P: Procurement Specialist
PA: Project Advisor

                                                      41                                     Anqex A


HYDROCARBONTRANSPORT PROCESSINGPROJECT(LOAN 3376-BR )
                                       AND



                                              Appraisal             Actual or           Actual as % of
                                               estimate          current estimate      appraisal estimate
                                                   ~~~          ~
Total project costs                         623.1             592.0                  95
Loan amount                                 260.0             260.0                  100
Cofinancing
Cancellation
Institutional performance


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                             FY92     FY93      FY94        FY95      FY96      FY97     FY98        FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     99.4    227.3    257.0        260.0
Actual (US$M)                 0.0      0.0      45.4         83.8     142.1     223.0    257.4       260.0
Actual as % of appraisal       0       0              18      32       55        86        99        100
                                                                                    _I
Date of final disbursement:


Proiect Dates
                                                         Original                       Actual
Initiating memorandum                                                        71811989
Negotiations                              11/89                               10/9/90
Board approval                            2/90                               6/26/91
Signing                                   4/91                                10126l92
Effectiveness                             6/91                                1/22/93
Closing date                              12/31/95                            12/31/99


Staff InDuts (staffweeks)
                                  Total
Preparation to
Appraisal                     16
Apppraisal to Board           136
Supervision                   242
Other (completion)            5
Total                         399

                                                 42                                 Annex A


Mission Data
                      Date    No. of Staff days Specializations  Performance Rating  Types of
                 (month/year) persons in field   represented        rating   trend   problems

Identification/  7/89        6       10        E,F,N,C
Preparation
                 9/89        6       24        E,F,N,C
Appraisal        12/89       9                 E,Env,S,,UC,C,F
Supervision      12/91       2       8         F,N              1
                 3/92        2       5         F,N              1
                 1193        3       8         E,F,N            2                   M
                 3/93        1       N/A       Env              N/A
                 12/93       4       9         E,F,N,P, Env     2                   M
                4/94         1       3         P                NIA
                 8/94        2       8         F,C              U                  M
                 11/94       3       8         F,N,C            U                  M
                 3/95        4       5         F,C,Env,PA       U                  M
                 5/95        1       N/A       Env              N/A
                 5/96        1       2         F                S                  P
                 3/97        1       3         F                S
                 10198       N/A     8         F                S
                 5/99        1       3         T,F              S                   M
Completion       5/99        2       3         T,F              s
Specialization                                    Tvpe of Problem
S: Industrial Specialist                           F: Financial
UC: Unit Chief                                     P: Procurement
E: Economist                                      T: Technical
F: FinancialAnalyst                                M: Managerial
N: Engineer
P: Procurement Specialist
Env: Environmental Specialist
C: Consultant
PA: Project Advisor

                                                     43                                           Annex B1


Annex Bl. Gas Sector Development Project -Market
Development and Cost-Benefit Analysis

Bolivian Gas Markets

1. Gas exports from Bolivia to Brazil through the pipeline started in 1999(with a six-
months delay). In 2002, they amounted to a total average of 12.1MMcmd, including 11.1
MMcmd imported by Petrobras and about 1MMcmd through a lateral pipeline
connecting to the project pipeline in Bolivia to deliver gas to the Cuiaba power plant.
While a substantial achievement, the volumes imported by Petrobras in 2002 were only
about 70% of appraisal estimates. While industrial gas markets are expected to reach
original targets with some delays, there are now considerable uncertainties regarding
potentia1power generation markets.

TheNon-powerMarket

2. The non-power market in Brazil is essentially the industrial market. Only two states
have significant residential and commercial markets (in the cities of Silo Paul0 and Rio de
Janeiro), and expansion of these networks will take time and considerable investments by
the local distribution companies, most of which are new concessions. The viability of the
project therefore hinged upon the development of the industrial market, which was
always considered as the primary market for Bolivian gas. At appraisal, it was estimated
that the non-power market would absorb close to 15MMcmd of gas by 2006, or over
60% of the pipeline capacity (then planned for 24 MMcmd). However, if consumption
continues to grow at only 3% per annum, this level will be reached with a four year
delay.. Slower than expected market development is attributed to the combination of a
number of factors: (a) slow economic growth in Brazil since the Asian crisis in 1999;(b)
the large increase in Bolivian gas cost as a result of the large devaluation of the domestic
currency, the increase in international oil prices, and the dollarization of the gas transport
tariff, which has eroded competitiveness of gas relative to substitutes with large non-
tradable elements in their costs (fuel wood, domestic gas); or rendered more economic
the installation of plant-level emission control devices to prevent pollution from fuel oil';
(c) slow development of distribution networks by gas distribution companies; and (d)
continued availability of large quantities of low-value, surplus high-sulfur heavy oil2.

3. A number of contractual and regulatory factors are also quoted as constraining faster
development. These include: (a) equalization of transportation tariffs along the pipeline,
which penalizes industries in the state of S5o Paulo, where most of the potential market


1. Representatives of the Santa Catarina Gas Company cited instances of a ceramic company that reverted
to fuel wood from its own plantations; a glass manufacturer who preferred to use heavy fuel oil and invest
in a filter; and of ceramic companies complaining that they were loosing competitive advantage to
producers in the North East (Paraiba), who had access to much cheaper domestic gas.
2. At appraisal, it was expected that Petrobras would carry out a large refinery improvement program which
would substantially reduce its large surplus of low-priced residual fuel oil (with sulfur content of 5-7
percent).

                                                      44                                          Annex B1


is3;(b) lax enforcement of environmental regulations, allowing some industries to operate
using highly polluting, but cheap, fuels4;(c) some have mentioned that the potentially
large market in co-generation is not being realized because current electricity tariffs for
industry are cross-subsidized by the residential and commercial consumer segments; and
(d) finally, inadequate tariff structures of several local distribution companies do not
encourage interruptible gas contracts.

ThePower GenerationMarket

4. The power sector was estimated at appraisal to absorb about 9.5MMcmd by 2007.
Currently, it is estimated that gas use in power generation will fall very short of this
target, with hardly any uptake until 2007, and then increasing to may be about 5 MMcmd
by 2010 and beyond. The main reasons for this shortfall are associated with the major
energy crisis which affected Brazil in 2001; the large devaluation of the Real after 1999,
and increases in international oil prices, which eroded the already delicate competitive
position of thermal generation in a predominantly hydro-based system.



5. The PAD estimated that 9.5 MMcmd of gas could be absorbed by three
thermoelectric plants along the trunk line (Mato Grosso do Sul, Rio de Janeiro and S5o
Paulo), of a capacity totaling 1,350MW, operating at, or close to, base load, plus another
900MW of capacity under development by private consortia, operating in
complementarity with hydropower, but at load factors progressively declining from 75%
to 60%. The PAD average load factors were more optimistic than those estimated in a
study carried out under the Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP)
in 1997on the basis of 1995data.' This ESMAP study had estimated that, over long time-
series, thermal plants operating in complementarity with hydro power would operate with
average load factors of 34% to 37%, and only if a secondary market for the unused gas
contracted by the power plants could be developed (the study estimated such a market to
be equivalent to a capacity of only 1,000to 2,000 MW over the next five to ten years).
The PAD'Smore optimistic estimates were based on the expectation that a power
shortage would develop in Brazil in the medium term, and on announced plans for
construction of thermal capacity by the private sector and under a Protocol signed
between BNDES, Petrobras and Eletrobras.

TheEnergy Crisis

6. A power shortagewas expected in Brazil because state-owned generation companies
(subsidiaries of Eletrobras) had been prevented for several years to invest in new power
generation, while a new model for the electrical sector was being adopted (as further

3. Some argue that the southern states could afford to pay distance-based tariffs if they could transport
cheaper domestic gas through the pipeline.
4. Particularly controversial is the use of petroleum coke by the cement industry, a potentially large client
for natural gas.
5. Brazil-Hydro and Thermal Power Sector Study, September 1997 (ESMAP Report No. 197197).

                                                     45                                       Annex B1


explained in Annex B3). However, by 2001, this model was only partly operational, and
little of the required additional generation capacity had been built. Due to the
overwhelming reliance of Brazil's power system on hydro-generation (close to 90% of
installed capacity), following a prolonged drought in 2001, a major energy crisis finally
emerged.

7. The Government swiftly implemented a drastic energy rationing program which
affected all consumer segments and forced decreases in consumption of up to 20% over
most of the year. In parallel, the Government requested Petrobras to contract all
remaining capacity available in the pipeline, which it did (6 MMcmd under the so-called
TCX), and to contract additional natural gas quantities required to feed a large program
of thermal plants (Priority Thermoelectric Program-PPT6), a number of which were
contracted by Petrobras itself on an accelerated schedule. A program to construct 7,451
MW of gas-based thermoelectric capacity was launched, including 5,780 MW along the
gas network in the South, South-East and Center-West regions (requiring a total of 24.2
MMcmd). The expectation then became that all 30 MMcmd of the pipeline capacity
would be required by 2007. The ICR, which was prepared at that time, reflects large
anticipated gas uptakes under this program.

8. The energy crisis, however, had a major unintended effect. According to most
analysts visited by the mission, the power demand curve shifted downwards. Power
consumption in 2002, one year after the energy crisis ended, was back to 1998 levels and
was not expected to increase more than by its historical average of about 5% per year.
When hydro reservoirs filled up again the following year, a large capacity surplus
emerged. These expectations are shared by the Electrical System National Operator
(ONS),' which estimated that surplus capacity will exist until 2006 (under optimistic
demand assumptions) or 2007 (under the reference scenario). Furthermore, during most
of the period, it is estimated that there will be sufficient excess hydropower capacity to
meet demand, even at peak time.

9. Since existing hydro-electric plants can be dispatched at very low marginal operating
costs, it is unlikely that, in the interconnected system, existing thermal plants can be
dispatched economically during much of that period. In its 2003 Annual Planning of
Energy Operation Report, ONS states that no power deficit is expected before 2008 under
any scenario, including for meeting peak consumption. The marginal cost of operation,
which represents the cost of producing the additional MWh required, remains very low
between 2003 and 2006 under ONS's base demand scenario (Mercado de Referencia),
below R$10 per MWh (US$3) in the South EastKenter West and South regions,
reflecting the large surplus in hydropower capacity. There is thus a strong likelihood that
very little thermal capacity, even existing one, can be economically dispatched during
that period*.Only in 2007 (2006 under ONS's High demand Scenario) does the marginal
cost of operation increase significantly (to R$25-35 on average for the base demand


6. This program originally included 49 thermo-electric plants with a total capacity of 15,000MW
7. Relatorio ONS-RE-048/03- Planejamento Annual da Operacao Energetica-Ano 2003.
8. The cost of delivered Bolivian gas alone is estimated at about US$22 per Mwh.

                                                     46                                            Annex B1


scenario and R$57-69 for the high demand scenario). Thus, only when the existing
hydroelectric capacity becomes committed could it become viable to dispatch some
existing gas-based thermal plants on a consistent basis.

CurrencyDevaluation,InternationalOilPrices, and Termsofthe GasPurchase
Agreement

10.PAD estimates were based on the assumption that the prevailing exchange rate at the
time of appraisal (R$1.03 per U.S. dollar) would remain unchanged. However, since the
Asian Crisis in 1999,there has been a very substantial devaluation of the domestic
currency, which at the beginning of 2003 was at about R$3.5 per U.S. dollar.
Furthermore, international oil prices increased from US$18 per bbl. in 1997to US$25 in
2002 and are now above US$30. This had considerably raised the domestic currency
commodity cost of gas, since the Gas Purchase Agreement with Bolivia specifies a price
in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, since the agreed price adjustment formula links the price of
gas to Bolivian producers to a basket of fuel oil international prices, the U.S. dollar
commodity price of Bolivian Gas in the meantime has increased by 45%'. As a result,
the domestic cost of delivered gas has increased more than four times since 1997,from
R$2.8 to R$11.6 per MMBTU, considerably more than inflation in Brazil, as measured
by any index.lo

11.While the impact of these increases was mitigated to a large extent in the industrial
market by similar adjustments to the cost of fuel oil, the major substitute fuels, this was
not the case for thermal power, whose substitute, hydropower, incorporates a substantial
share of non-tradable costs.

12. Several Government representatives and industry analysts also claim that, in the
interconnected system, new thermal plants cannot compete in the future with new
hydroelectric plants. The 1997ESMAP study had concluded that there was scope for a
limited number of thermal plants using Bolivian gas to compete with new hydropower
plants, in some locations with inadequate transmission infrastructure and/or where a
secondary market for unused gas could be developed. Even these prospects are contested
today, given the increases in the price of gas. Additional thermal plants may thus not be
able to compete against new hydro plants, unless the latter are located far away and
require additional long-distance transmission lines. The recent Government's Proposal
for an Institutional Model for the Electrical Sector (dated July 2003) stresses the unique

9. The gas commodity price increased from US$l .l per Mmbtu (in Rio Grande) at appraisal to about
US$1.6 at the end of 2002 . Since the gas transport tariff is also in U.S. dollars (about USS1.6-1.7), the cost
of Bolivian gas city-gate is now about US3.3, compared with US$2.7 at appraisal. Under the GSA, YPFB
aggregates supplies from different producers into a gas pool, which is sold to Petrobras at a single contract
price. Despite the large excess of natural gas now available in Bolivia, there is no possibility for
participating and other Bolivian producers to either sell their gas at lower prices or market their own gas
directly at different terms.
10.The national Consumer Index (Indice Nacional de Precos ao Consumidor-INPC) increased by about
31%between mid-1997 and the end of 2002; the General Index of Market Prices (Indice General de Precos
de Mercado- IGPM) increased 44% and the National Construction Cost Index (Indice Nacional de Custo da
Construcao-INCC) increased 27%.

                                              47                                  Annex B1


characteristics of the Brazilian system where almost 90% of the generation capacity is
hydro-based, and that this characteristic will remain given the competitiveness of hydro-
based generation and the large remaining unexploited hydro potential in the country,
notwithstanding possible increases in generation from other sources.

RegulatoryIssues

13.A number of problems in the regulatory framework for the power sector have also
been blamed for discouraging private investment in thermal power generation, and in
some case distorting choices in favor of hydropower. These factors were extensively
reviewed in the framework of the Brazil Energy Sector Reform Loan which was
approved in 2002 in support of Government's measures to resolve the energy crisis, and
of the recently approved Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project. Among
disincentives specific to thermal generation, the following factors are quoted: (a) there
has been an ineffective coordination between ANEEL and ANP; (b) power transmission
pricing is still charged on a single "postage stamp" charge per kilowatt of load, which
does not vary with geographical location-this    does not provide any incentive for
generators to choose locations to minimize the sum of generation and transmission costs
and is detrimental to thermal plants, the chief advantage of which normally lies in
proximity to market; (c) for thermal generation, the price cap set by ANEEL for pass-
through of energy costs is claimed to be significantly below the true marginal cost for
supplying new energy for thermal generation.

14.Another issue is the absence of a secondary and interruptible industrial market for
gas not used by thermal plants, which is critical if they are to operate in complementarity
with hydropower. Main reasons, already quoted earlier, are: (a) lack of incentives in tariff
structures of local distribution companies which do not favor interruptible gas contracts;
(b) low power tariffs for industry, which are cross-subsidized by residential consumers-
this does not encourage co-generation; and (c) the large amount of low-priced, surplus,
high sulfur heavy oil available domestically, which also does not encourage the
development of interruptible gas use

 Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis

15.The cost-benefit analysis in the Staff Appraisal Report was based on the assumption
that the pipeline would have a maximum gas flow of 24 MMcmd by year 2007,
consistent with the configuration of the pipeline developed under the project. Although
the pipeline can have a maximum capacity of 30 MMcmd, the project financed only
investments required to carry 24 MMcmd in a first stage. Out of these 24 MMcmd, a total
of 9.55 MMcmd would be used for power generation, and the balance of 14.45MMcmd
for other uses (mostly industry). The economic rate of return was estimated at 21%.

16.The ICR, which was prepared in mid-2001, reflected the expectation that the original
ramp-up would considerably accelerate and that all pipeline spare capacity would be
used-up as early as 2007 to feed the PPT thermoelectric pants. The ICR presented a
revised cost-benefit analysis based on 30 MMcmd, which also took into account the costs
of installing the required additional compression capacity, which was being contracted at

                                              48                                    Annex B1


that time. The additional use in power generation was to more than compensate the lower
than expected initial uptakes in the non-power markets (as a result of slower growth than
planned). The economic rate of return was re-estimated at 22%.

17.A year and a half later, the expectations of large increases in Bolivian gas use for
power generation have not materialized. Actual gas flow through the pipeline in 2002
was only 11.8MMcmd on average, compared to 15.5MMcmd expected at appraisal and
17.6MMcmd in the ICR. Under any realistic assumption, these flows are not expected to
reach full pipeline capacity by 2007, as was expected in both the SAR (24 MMcmd) and
the ICR (30 MMcmd).

18. While use in non-power markets is expected to be generally in line with appraisal
estimates (although with some delay), there are currently considerable uncertainties
regarding the economic viability of Bolivian gas use in power generation at the current
delivered gas prices. Beyond 2006, there are large uncertainties regarding the potential of
large intakes of Bolivian natural gas in additional thermal generation, for reasons already
explained in the first section.

19.To reflect these developments, a sensitivity analysis was performed on the PAD and
the ICR economic rate of return estimates, to reflect developments since the ICR. These
estimates are of the authors only, and are not intended to be accurate revised estimates of
the project's economic rate of return, but rather tools to test the resilience of project
benefits. Also, these are not estimates of the project'sfinancial rate of return, which is
not affected by the value of gas and substitute fuels in the end-market. Finally, it does
not take into account the fact that the gas uptake ramp up in the pipeline may
substantially accelerate depending on regulatory changes, currently under discussion as
part of the new model for the electrical sector.

20. This analysis is based on the project in its original configuration, i.e. with investment
and operating costs sized to ship up to 24 MMcmd, as in the PAD. Unit gas costs and net-
back values are those used in the ICR (which in fact are the same as in the PAD and are
based on an US$l8 per bbl oil price). Revised estimates of gas markets are presented in
Table 2, on the basis of assumptions further detailed in the next section. In the base case
scenario, the economic rate of return for the project would decrease to about 15%..Under
the worst case scenario, where power generation from Bolivian gas is uneconomic even
beyond 2006 and the non-power market grows only at 3% per annum, the economic rate
of return decreases to 13.5% If the average net-back value were to fall by 15%,the
                               ,
economic rate of return under the base case would decrease to 12%.Finally, when
including the costs associated with expansion to ship up to 3OMMcmd of gas (which
were not part of the project), the base case rate of return decreases to 11%.

21. These estimates are sensitive to assumptions on international crude oil prices. A
sensitivity test was carried out with a price of crude oil of US$25 per barrel, as in 2002.
Between 1997 and 2002, international fuel oil prices (HSFO) increased by about 35%, so
the cost of Bolivian gas was increased by about 35%. The average netback value of
natural gas in the industrial market (assumed to principally substitute heavy fuel oil)
should thus have correspondingly increased by about 25% ( assuming the same margin

                                                   49                                         Annex B1


between international fuel oil prices in 1997and the net back value of gas for industrial
use as assumed in the PAD). The net-back value in power use is assumed to remain
unchanged. In this case, the rate of return for the base case would increase from 15%to
18%.

22. With respect to the southern leg, the PAD estimated the economic rate of return at
27%, based on a maximum gas flow of 9.7 MMcmd. This estimate was revised
downwards in the ICR to 20%, based on a lower gas flow of 6.15 MMcmd, in light of
slower than expected development in industrial markets. In this report, a sensitivity
analysis based on ICR estimates was prepared, using a maximum gas flow in line with
the ICR estimate, but with a substantially slower growth in the power market in the
period 2003-2007. The re-estimated rate of return for the southern leg under these
assumptions is 13%.

COST-BENEFITANALYSISDETAILEDASSUMPTIONS
                                 -
23. The ICR and scenarios presented here assume the same unit gas costs and net-back
values as in the PAD.

A. Entire Project

Scenario 1-Base case Scenario

    0   Project with original configuration, as per S A R (up to 24 MMCMD, and
        assuming crude oil price at US$18 per barrel).
    0   Actual market data for period 1999-2002.
    0   Existing (mostly industrial) market projected to grow at 3% per year.

    0   Power market: generally in line with PAD assumptions that thermoelectric plants
        can be economically dispatched, but with several year delay. It is assumed that
        existing thermoelectric power plants in 2003 in the pipeline's area of influence (as
        they appear in the ONS report), totaling about 1,600MW of capacity, are
        economically dispatched progressively, starting 2006 (date at which ONS
        estimates that available hydroelectric capacity will become fully committed), and
        operate in complementarity to hydropower", with capacity utilization
        progressively increasing from 10%in 2007 to 70% by 2009, as secondary
        industrial markets are found for gas not used by these



11.Based on Group A plants in PPT program in pipeline area of influence completed or to be completed
between December 2001 and December 2003,in the states of Mato Grosso do Sul, SBo Paulo, Parana, Santa
Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, but excluding Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais, which are expected to use
domestic gas( William Arjona 1and 2 (MS-l83MW), Tres Lagoas (MS-240MW), Araucaria (PR-
480MW), Nova Piratininga (SP- 400MW), three small plants in Jacarei, Mogi Guacu and Vale do Rosario
(SP-l29MW), and Canoas (RS- 160MW).
12.The 1997ESMAP study had found that thermal power plants in Brazil, operating in complementarity
with hydroelectric plants over a long time would operate with average load factors of only 34% to 37%.

                                                      50                                        Annex B1




Scenario2. PessimisticScenario

        Project with original configuration, as per PAD (up to 24 MMCMD And US$18 per
        barrel of crude oil).
    0   Actual market data for period 1999-2002.
        Existing market growing at 3% per year. This scenario essentially assumes that
        thermoelectric plants cannot be economically dispatched.

Scenario3.ICRAnalysis, withpower market delayedfouryears

        Project configuration as presented in ICR, i.e. including investments in
        compression to expand capacity to 30 MMcmd (Crude oil at USSl8 per barrel).
        Gas flow increasing to 30 MMcmd by 2010, i.e. with a four-year delay. Gas flows
        between 1999 and 2002 reflecting actual flows .

B. Southern Leg

        Non-power market increasing by 3% per year over actual 2002 levels.
        Power market: assumes that Araucaria and Canoas plants operate, starting 2006,
        and reach 70% of capacity by 2009.
        Investment and operating costs as in ICR.




But since they would be required to contract gas (under take-or-pay conditions) and gas transport (under
ship-or-pay conditions) equivalent to an 80% load factor, the economic viability of the thermal plant would
depend on their ability to secure a secondary market for the unused gas. The study estimated at the time
such a market to exist for the equivalent of up to 1,000 to 2,000 MW within the next 5 to 10years.
13. Source: ONS.

                                               51                                 Annex B1



                             Brazil- Gas Sector Development Project
                      Annex BI, Table 1. Cost-Benefit Analysis- Summary
                                     Gas Flow (MMcmd)
                                                    Revised Estimates              ICR, with
                                                 Pessimistic Base case estimate    four-year
Year            SAR         ICR      Actual        Scenario           Scenario        delay
1997
1998
1999             5.00       5.00       1.10            1. I O              1. I O        1.I
2000           12.15        9.15       5.77            5.77                5.77         5.77
2001           13.38      10.38       10.23           10.23               10.23       10.23
2002           15.65      17.65       11.81           11.81               11.81       11.81
2003           17.09      25.09                       12.17               12.17       12.17
2004           20.41      26.41                       12.53               12.53       12.53
2005           215 5      27.55                       12.91               12.91       12.91
2006           23.17      29.17                       13.30               14.45       14.45
2007           24.33      30.33                       13.70              16.00        17.00
2008           24.33      30.33                       14.10               17.55       20.00
2009           24.33      30.33                       14.53               19.23       23.00
2010           24.33      30.33                       14.96              19.66        27.00
2011           24.33      30.33                       15.41              20.11        30.00
2012           24.33      30.33                       15.88              20.58        30.00
2013           24.33      30.33                       16.35              21.05        30.00
2014           24.33      30.33                       16.84              21.54        30.00
2015           24.33      30.33                       17.35              22.05        30.00
2016           24.33      30.33                       17.87              22.57        30.00
2017           24.33      30.33                       18.40              23.10        30.00

IERR            21%        22%                         14%                 15%         15%
Sensitivity on Best estimate
Average netback value @3.O/MMBTU(-
15%)                                                                       12%
Including costs of expansion to 30 MMcmd                                   11%
Crude oil at U S 2 5 per barrel                                            18%

Gas costs increasing 50% & net back value 20%                              16%

                                                          52                                                  Annex B1


                                         Brazil Gas Sector Development Project
                                      Revised Cost-Benefit Analysis- Base Case
                  Table 2. Gas Markets- Projected at Appraisal and Revised Estimates- MMcmd


                                    PAD                                           Revised Estimate
                 Non-power         Power          Total             Non-power         Power        Total
Year               Market         Market                              Market          Market


1997
1998
1999                     8,96           0,65           9,61                 1 , l O                    1 , I O (actual)
2000                     9,91           3,19          13,lO                577                         577     (actual)
2001                    10,86           3,46          14,32                10,23                      10,23    (actual)
2002                    12,75           4,79          17,54                11,81                      11,81    (actual)
2003                    12,60           4,34          16,94                12,17                      12,17
2004                    1335            7,81         21,36                 12,53                      12,53
2005                    14,43           8,OO          22,43                12,91                      12,91
2006                    14,78           8,74         23,52                 13,30           1,15       14,451
2007                    14,78           935           24,33                13,70           2,30       16,00
2008                    14,78           935          24,33                 14,lO           3,45       17,55
2009                    14,78           935          24,33                 14,53           4,70       19,23
2010                    14,78           9,55         24,33                14,96            4,70       19,66
2011                    14,78           935          24,33                15,41            4,70       20,11
2012                    14,78           9,55         24,33                15,88            4,70       20,58
2013                    14,78           9,55         24,33                16,35            4,70       21,05
2014                    14,78           9,55         24,33                16,84            4,70       21,54
2015                    14,78           9,55         24,33                17,35            4,70       22,05
2016                    14,78           935          24,33                17,87            4,70       22,57
2017                    14,78           935          24,33                18,40            4,70       23,10


Note: these data do not include imports of Bolivian gas to the Cuiaba power plant, which is transported
by an other pipeline originating in Bolivia from the project pipeline. It was excluded for consistency
with the PAD analysis, which did not include either the cos nor the benefits of this non-project
financed connection.

                                        m m
                                        Tu?




      o m o m o m m m m m m m m m m m m m m
      9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
      Y - N N m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m




"I m m o m m b

        h


        0
        (D

        0
        c\I
        Gz
        mC
        b

        .-c
        0
        f2
        a,
        Q
        0
        .-cC
        0



        c
        b
        C
        Q)
        h
        I
        3
        0
        d
        co


L
1




 a
 b3
 0




 c
 2:
 v)
 U
 -3C

 -m
 c




 P
 kl

                                         55                             Annex B1


                   Brazil Gas Sector Development Project
       Annex BI, Table 5- Revised Cost-Benefit Analysis- Southern Leg-
                           Cost and Benefit Flows
     Gas Flow  Gas cost     Capital &   Total costs     Benefits   Net Benefits
Year MMcmd                 op. costs
1997                              116.3         116.3                     -116.3
1998                              264.3         264.3                     -264.3
1999                              222.4         222.4                     -222.4
2000       1.oo      14.9          25.6          40.5        48.1             7.6
2001       2.00      30.1          12.6          42.6        96.0           53.3
2002       2.50      37.9          15.5          53.5       119.8           66.4
2003       3.00      45.9          20.9          66.9       143.8           76.9
2004       3.09      47.7          12.2          59.9       148.1           88.1
2005       3.18      49.1          12.8          61.9       152.5           90.6
2006       3.58      55.7          17.1          72.8       171.3           98.5
2007       3.98      62.5           8.4          70.8       190.4          119.5
2008       4.82      75.7           8.4          84.1      230.7           146.6
2009       5.46      86.5           8.4          94.9      261.5           166.6
2010       5.57      89.0           8.4          97.4      266.7           169.3
2011       5.68      91.5           8.4          99.9      272.0           172.1
2012       5.79      94.1           8.4         102.5      277.4           174.9
2013       5.91      96.0           8.4         104.4      283.1           178.6
2014       6.03      98.8           8.4         107.2      288.8           181.6
2015       6.16     101.7           8.4         110.1      294.8           184.7
2016       6.29     103.8           8.4         112.2      301.O           188.8
2017       6.42     106.8           8.4         115.2      307.3           192.1
IRR      13.0%

                             56                            Annex B2


Annex B2. Comgas Financial Covenants

                     Year      Estimated         Actual
Rate of Return       1990      8Yo               -2.4%
                     1991      10%               2.3%
                     1992      11%               3.5%
                     1993      12%               7.7%
                     1994      12%               2.8%
                     1995      12%               0.7%
                     1996      12%               5.5%
                     1997      12%               3.6%
                     1998      12%               0.8%
                     1999      12%               6.1%
                     2000      12%               1.O%
                    2001       12%               12.5%

Current Ratio        1990      1.o
                     1991      1.o               0.9
                     1992      1.1               0.7
                     1993      1.2               1.1
                     1994      1.2               0.7
                     1995      1.2               0.3
                     1996      1 2               0.3
                     1997      172               1.14
                     1998      1Y2               1.15
                     1999      1 2               0.95
                     2000      192               0.55
                     2001      1 2               0.91
Debt/Equity Ratio    2000      Not greater than  23:77
                     2001      60:40             60:40

33    4
      E
2E    a
      0
      E


      Q)
      0E
      c,
       cd
       m
      0 3
      2m




          P
         I



          3

-P
0

3
n
a,
m
-0
-0
.-
n
n
3
P
L




c
n
a,
a,

-
c
mv)
I
0
n
r
en




Ea,        A    A



       a,
       a,
       v)
       c




           A

          -P
          0
          L

          8
          c

          5
          a,
          c
          0
          c
          0
          m
          g!
          sa,
          zPa,
          X

          .-9
          -21

         ,fn
          v)

          g!
          --
          01
          2
          Q
          x
          c
         '3
          a,
          U
          n
          8
          v)
          3


A   A




    A


                                                        62                                                Annex B4


Annex B4. Pollution Reduction in the Metropolitan Area of Silo
Paulo (RMSP) and the Cubatiio Area

1. All three projects helped reduce pollution in urban areas, particularly in the Silo Paulo
Metropolitan Area (RMSP) and the Santos area. Theprojects aided in the substitution of natural
gas for more polluting fuels. In addition, the HDT facilities built under HTPP substantially
increased the use of better quality diesel in these same areas, from 1.33MMcm (averaging a
sulfur content of 0.22 percent) in 1997to about 3 MMcm in 2002 (with an average sulfur content
of 0.1 percent), while eliminating high sulfur streams previously added to low-quality fuel oil.

2. To address severe problems with SO2 and particulate emissions in the RMSP and Cubatiio
areas, the State of Silo Paulo launched a program in 1981requiring the installation of end-of-pipe
emission control systems, and requiring large industries to use low-sulfur fuel oil. By 1985, SO2
emissions had been substantially reduced, and have since been generally within standards.
Particulate emissions still do not comply with standards, especially in the RMSP and the Cubatiio
area, where they are associated with vehicular emissions, re-suspension of soil dust, and
secondary aerosols. Although it is not possible to measure the relative contribution of increased
use of natural gas and better-quality diesel oil in total air pollution reduction, further reductions
in SO2 concentrations have been measured since 1997.According to CETESB's monitoring
report for 2001, the RMSP monitoring stations have shown results much below the ambient air
standards for S02' and improvements since 1997. The substitution of natural gas for more
polluting fuels by Comgas customers and use of lower sulfur content diesel may have
significantly contributed to these reductionsS2




1.Below the current ambient air standard of 365pglm3 in 24 hours and 8Opg/m3 in a year, and also below the new
limit of 125pgim3proposed by WHO, which is already met by all the stations (HTPP and SPNGDP in Part 11).
Annual average concentration of sulfur dioxide in RMSP is currently around 20pg/m3 and total particulates in
suspension, remain since 1992, slightly higher than the primary standard of 80pg/m3 (annual geometric average).
2. It is estimated that in 1999 the projects would have removed in the San Paulo Metropolitan and Santos areas,
about 40,000 tons of sulfur dioxide by substituting natural gas for fuel oil (SPNGD in Part II), and about 27,000 tons
of sulfur dioxide by improved diesel quality distributed in these areas (HTPP Part 11).In 2001, CETESB estimated
total emission of SO, at 69,400 tons in these areas.


                                                     64                                     Annex B5

  Annex B5. Emissions of Pollutants in Cubatgo in 2001

                                                         Total Emissions of
       Pollutants               Emission from RPBC       Priority Industries  Participation of
                                        (todyear)            in Cubatgo        RPBC (Yo)
  co                                                          (todyear)

I HC                     1 2.737
                           1,982                       I 5.320
                                                         17,040              I
                                                                                   73.9
                                                                                   51.4
                                                                                   11.6

  Nox
  sox                      13,354                      II30.000
                                                         18,070

 NParticulates             699
                           16.660                                                  55.5
   H 3                                                   70
                                                         5,469                     12.8
                                                                                     0

  Font: CETESB 2001 Air Quality in SI0 Paulo Report

                                                         65                                              Annex B6


Annex B6 Bolivia Hydrocarbon Sector Development.
                  .
BOLIVIA    HYDROCARBON          SECTOR

1. Throughout the 1990s, Bolivia also significantly reformed its hydrocarbon sector. Faced with
insufficient proven reserves to satisfy the large potential Brazilian market, in 1990, Bolivia
passed a new Hydrocarbon Law aiming at promoting private sector investment. Yet, private
investors, while interested in the Brazilian Gas market, stayed away, concerned about the
overwhelming predominance of the state-controlled YPFB. Also, it had become urgent for Bolivia
to develop alternative gas markets, as the contractfor export of natural gas to Argentinawas renewed
until 1999for steadilydecliningamounts, asArgentina now had its own abundantgas supply.
Natural gas exportsto Argentina declined from their highof US$35O-400million during 1982-86, to
about US$lOOmillion during 1993-98, and onlyUS$10 million in 1999.

2. With Bank support,through two Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs) and the Hydrocarbon
SectorReform and CapitalizationTechnicalAssistanceProject (Credit 2762-BO, approvedin July
1995,and closed in May 1999),the government embarkedon a drastic sectorreform. In March 1994,
the CapitalizationLaw was passed; in October 1994,the SectoralRegulation SystemLaw (SIRESE)
defined the sector'sregulatory and oversight structure;and in April 1996,a revised Hydrocarbon
Law was approved,providing substantialincentives for explorationactivities.'In 1997,YPFB's
assetswere capitalizedinto three corporations,two inproduction and one inpipeline transportation.*
YPFB technical servicesand downstreamactivitieswere privatized in 1998and 1999.YPFB has no
more operatingrights and today monitors complianceof the capitalized companieswith their
explorationand production obligations;manages the government'soil revenues; and aggregatesgas
export contractcommitmentsto Argentina and Brazil.

IMPACT OF GSDP

3. The Bolivia-Brazilpipeline had a substantialimpact on the Bolivian economy.Combined with
the sectorreform that preceded project implementation,the project spwred considerable
exploration activities.Proven and probable reserves increasedfrom about 6 trillion cubic feet
(TCF) in 1997to 52 TCF in 2003, considerablymore than required under the GSA (7.7 TCF over
the next 20 years), prompting the search for additionalmarkets abroad (includingLNG production
for the U.S. Pacific Coast market). In 2002, Bolivia already exported gas to Brazil worth an
estimatedUS$300 million, more than twice the value in 1992(US$125million) and almost as
much as the peak value of Bolivian gas exports to Argentina during the 1982-86 period. Total gas
exports accountedfor 24% of total exports in 2001. Gas exportsto Brazil have contributed
significantlyto maintain economic growth and to dampenthe impact of the 2000-2001recession,
which was triggeredby the Argentine and Brazilian crises, the continueddecline of the tin mining
sector (alltin mines but onehave closed) and the poor performanceof the agro-industrysector
(unableto competewith Brazil after the devaluationof the Real in 1999).Other benefits have been

1.The law reduced royalty payments from 50% to 18% and introduced a 25% income tax and a 25% surtax for
windfall profits.
2. Capitalization was a form of privatization in which the private sector bid for 50 percent of shares and the
government retained the remaining 50 percent, which it deposited into pension fimds.

                                               66                                      Annex B6


the large increase in foreign investments,and the creationof many small and medium-size
enterprises as engineering and service contractorsto oil companies. Finally, oil and gas
developmenthas promoted the developmentof Santa Cmz as the industry hub in Bolivia.

4. About 50 percent of government revenues are currentlyderived from the oil and gas industry
and this share is expected to increase,raising concern about the vulnerability of the budget to
changes in oil and gas prices and gas uptakes from Brazil (royalties are not received if gas is not
taken, under the take-or-pay conditionsof the GSA). Another concern is that the uneven
distributionof royalties in Bolivia will aggravateregional disparities.Per law, royaltypayments
mostly go to producing provinces (11percent out of the total 18percent royalty rate), and one
province (Tarija,which has 5 percent of Bolivia'spopulation,is estimatedto receive about 50% of
royalties and holds 85percent of the reserves).Many are also concerned with the negative indirect
impacts of oil and gas activitieson sensitiveareas.

                                                    67                                Annex B7


Annex B7. Overall Impact of the Three Projects on Gas Use in
Brazil

1. The three projects account for 55 percent of a fivefold increase in natural gas sales since the
late 1980s. Total sales of gas in Brazil have increased from 8.1 MMcmd in 1986to 37 MMcmd
in 2002l (Table) (3 MMcmd of Campos gas and 1.O MMcmd of Merluza gas, distributed by
Comgas, and about 12MMcmd of Bolivian gas). In 2001,natural gas accounted for 5 percent of
the Sgo Paul0 State energy matrix. Markets for Bolivian gas, however, have not developed as
fast as expected. In 2002, the volumes imported by Petrobras were only about 70 percent of
appraisal estimates, and gas uptakes are now expected to reach appraisal estimates of 24
MMcmd with delays of several years. Current estimates and an analysis of contributing factors
are presented in detail in Annex B1.




1. Excluding gas flared or lost, re-injected, and used by Petrobras.

           m
5;;        r
           '4

G
Lo         2
4
El




              r a
              - m-
              cu m-




CQ




       -:              E o
       5  hE


                                                           70                                    Annex C

Annex B8. Environmental Aspects of the Gas Sector Development
Project

ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY PERFORMANCE OF IMPLEMENTINGAGENCIES
                         AND

1. The environmental and safetyperformance of TBG is exemplavy. TBG has implemented an
integrated management system and is certified IS0 14001for its environmental management
system, BS 8800 for its safety and working standards, and IS0 9001 for quality. GTB also is
certified IS0 9001 and has implemented an environmental management system for which it
expects IS0 14001certification soon. These certifications give an assurance of environmental
sustainability.

ENVIRONMENTAL            ASSESSMENT

2. The EA reports prepared for the GSDP are consideredexemplary.All relevant Bank safeguard
policies were followed in both Brazil and Bolivia, even though Bolivia was not a party to the Loan
Agreement.Due to its complex environmentaland social impacts, the project was rated categoryA
for environmentalassessmentpurposes (OP 4.01). For environmentalpurposes, the multilateral
agencies'consideredthat all pipeline segmentsin both countrieswere part of the project, and
therefore a fbll and comprehensiveEA was prepared for the entirepipeline length, to guarantee
that the same environmentaland socialimpact analysis criteriawere applied throughout,and that
they followedthe Bank's environmentaland socialpolicies and guidelines.The EA included a
comprehensiveanalysis of environmental,social, and safetyissues; a thorough analysisof project
                 and environmental and socialmanagement organizationand procedures for the
project. An Environmental and SocialManagementPlan (EMP) was also prepared for the entire
pipeline. Finally, at Bank request, and to addresscivil society'sconcerns aboutpotential upstream
impacts, a StrategicEnvironmentalAssessment (SEA) was carried out to assess indirect and
cumulative environmentaland social impacts associatedwith the project and establish criteria and
mechanisms for the mitigation of adverse social and environmentalimpacts. This studyidentified
potential environmentaland social impacts of accelerated gas exploration and production in
ecologically and socially sensitiveareas in Bolivia, which could be exacerbatedby the weak local
environment enforcementcapacity.

3. The project environmental documents were released to the public through the Bank's Public
Information Center and sponsors' sites, and were discussed in public meetings in both countries,
including with indigenous communities. Detailed socioeconomic and ecological mitigation and
compensation programs for Brazil as well as Bolivia were then prepared in a demand-driven
manner and agreed upon, with extensive participation of affected communities and local
governments (and federal or state government agencies for parks under theirjurisdiction). In
each country, these programs included a Social Compensation Program (SCP), an Indigenous
Peoples Development Program (IPDP), and an Ecological Compensation Program (ECP).

1.Multilateral agencies included IBRD, IADB, CAF and EIB.
2. The environmentalassessment helped improve the 3,150-kmpipeline route to avoid the need for resettlement in both
countries, minimize fragmentation of natural forests and wetlands, and avoid new road constructionto the maximum
possible extent, as in the Pantanal Brazilian wetland (Table I1A 1 in Part IIA).

                                                        71                                       Annex B9


4. The Brazilian part of the EA was reviewed by the five state environmental agencies and by
IBAMA, and the environmental construction licenses were granted on time. In Bolivia, the
environmental license was obtained from the Ministry of Sustainable Development and the
Environment. TBG and GTB received the 2001 award of the International Association for
Impact Assessment, for excellence in environmental management and in the use of impact
assessments in the design and construction of the pipeline. In addition, the project received a
World Bank Green Award for effective mainstreaming of environmental concerns within a
development project.

ENVIRONMENTALSOCIALPERFORMANCEDURING GSDP IMPLEMENTATION
                      AND

5. As one of the sponsors noted, all project stakeholders, including the multilateral banks, the
sponsors, and NGOs, wanted the project to serve as an example of environmental excellence.
Local and international NGOs actively helped improve the consultation and participation process
and the design and implementation and organizational arrangements of the project's ambitious
EMP, including environmental and social mitigation and compensation programs and IPDPs.
These contributions were well received by the multilateral banks and the sponsors, and further
enhanced project and outcomes and compliance with safeguard policies of sponsors.
Implementation of the EMP helped ensure that construction activities were performed in
accordance with sound and environmentally acceptable methods. Subsequent restoration and re-
vegetation activities corrected most environmental impacts and only a few deficiencies, mainly
related to erosion, are still pending. These are being addressed by TBG through corrective and
maintenance actions, as required under the terms of the operation license and of its own
maintenance program. In Bolivia re-vegetation was done twice without much success, except for
the right of way portion inside Kaa Iya-Chaco National Park.

Environmental and Social Management Structure of the Project

6. The project's environmental organizational arrangements evolved during implementation.
They included a Project Sponsors' Environmental Committee; the Project Management
Contractor, responsible for constructing the pipeline in compliance with EMP; a contracted
Environmental Inspection and Management Unit, with environmental and social inspectors and a
management unit to supervise the ecological, socioeconomic and IPDP programs; an
Environmental Auditor; an Ombudsperson; and an Ad-Hoc Environmental Committee to ensure
close coordination among multilateral agencies. As described in Box 2, the ombudsperson and
the social inspectors were appointed following a conflict with the community in the town of El
Carmen Ribeiro Torres in Bolivia (subsequently referred to as "El Carmen"), to ensure better
field supervision of social issues, and improve communication and participation of civil society.
Overall, this organization was effective in monitoring implementation of EMP and
environmental and social mitigation and compensation programs, including IPDPs, but could
have been more agile if the Environmental Inspection and Management Unit had been more
independent from sponsor^,^ and had had the authority to require contractors to make the


                                ~




3. The environmental and social inspectors team reported to the sponsors' environmental committee, which
forwarded their reports after review to multilateral agencies.

                                                        72                                         Annex B9


necessary corrections in case of non-compliance with the EMP, and to suspend construction
works in case of serious environmental problems.

               ~~         ~    ~~~~




Box 1. Civil Society Participation -The El Carmen Example
In July 1998,the Comite deFiscalizacion de El Carmen,a local communitymonitoring body setup with the
support of local and U.S.NGOs, presented complaintstotheBolivia-Brazilpipeline sponsorsandmultilateral
financial agencies on anumber of socialand environmentalimpacts and violations in the town of El Carmen.
Allegations ofnon-compliance included: closeproximity of thepipeline routetothecommunityschool,trash
dumping,purchases of illegallyharvested wood for construction,inadequate erosioncontrol,failuretorepair
damage caused to local roads and power generator, worker misconduct, and reduced community access to
food,housing, water supply, andmedicines.NGOs alsoclaimedthatthisresultedfromaninsufficientnumber
of inspectors, and the environmental auditor's failureto ensure full compliance of environmentalprovisions
by the contractors.In addition, contraryto therecommendationofthe EA, the constructioncampwaslocated
within the town of El Carmen, though with the authorization of the local government.
A Bank mission that visited El Carmen in October 1998reviewed the problems with committee leaders and
NGO representativesand establishedthatPetrobrasandthe constructioncontractorhad alreadysolvedmost of
the problems. However, Community leaders insisted that there were still unresolved issues, including the
acquisitionand use of illegal wood logs, inappropriatedisposal of solid waste, damage of the town electrical
network, and some social disruptions associated to the location of workers in town. The Bank mission also
foundthat civilsocietyparticipationinthemonitoringof environmentaland socialimpactsandthe supervision
of the EMP andcompensationprogramsneeded tobe improved,andthat field supervisionof socialissueswas
particularlyweak,thatthenumber of environmentalinspectorswas too smallto carryoutproper supervisionof
sucha longpipeline,and that the communicationprogramneeded to be improved.As followup action,ajoint
supervisionmission (IBRD, IADB,and CAF)in October 1998metwith civil societyorganizationsto agreeon
proceduresto ensure their participation in the monitoring and supervision.
The number of inspectors was increasedto include socialinspectors andmore environmentalinspectors,the
role of local monitoring committees was recognized and formalized, new mechanisms of communication
were established,and three meetings yearly were funded to facilitatebettercommunicationamongallparties.
Also, an ombudsperson,reporting directlyto themultilateralfinancialagencieswasappointed,differentiating
the position of ombudsman fiom that of auditor, to ensure a more steady participation of civil society,
improve supervision of social issues, and provide ongoing oversight of the social and ecological
compensation programs. The most important role of the ombudsperson was to maintain regular
communicationwithNGOs and local communitiesand facilitatetheir involvementin on-sitemonitoring.The
town of El Carmen also received substantial additional compensation payments.
Addressing the problems helped improve the environmental organizational structure and project
implementationthrough better communicationbetween stakeholdersand project sponsors, and civil society
participation to project environmental and social monitoring. Similar local monitoring committees were
established in other locations along the pipeline. Most important, a real and productive dialogue started
between the multilateral financial agencies, the sponsors, and civil society.
The implementation of this complex bi-national project with such a large social and environmental
component was a learning process for all parties, and its success is due to a combination of constructive
pressure from local and international NGOs, and receptiveness of the multilateral financial agencies and
sponsors to criticism and their determinationto have an exemplaryproject.
(Preparedfrompublications by theBank Information Center (BIC)andPROBIOMA,Bankfiles, and interviewsduringthe assessment
mission).

                                                 73                                   Annex B9


Participation and Involvement of Civil Society

7. Initially, the consultation process was rather narrow, and, often, agreements made with
municipal governments were unknown to affected communities, and at times disapproved by
them. After the El Carmen conflict (Box 2), information, participation, and involvement of
affected populations and other stakeholders substantially improved: the role of local community
monitoring committees (Comites de Fiscalization) was formalized; communication with the
affected communities was improved; and an independent ombudsperson was appointed. Also
three meetings per year were organized to facilitate the participation of the civil society local
representatives.

The Social Compensation Programs

8. At the end of 2002, the Social Compensation Program was completed in Bolivia, and
practically completed in Brazil. These programs, which were defined based on priorities
expressed by local governments, usually consisted of social investments such as schools, health
facilities and equipment, municipal infrastructure and buildings, and street paving. In Bolivia,
some of these programs were expanded during implementation to compensate for deficiencies in
the implementation of EMP, for instance in El Carmen, after negative local impacts were alleged
by the local monitoring committee in July 1998.

9. The provision of infrastructure in social compensation programs appears more sustainable in
Brazil than Bolivia, because municipal governments in Brazil have better operating and
maintenance budgets than in Bolivia. For instance, a primary school, built under the program,
which was visited by the assessment mission in Santa Catarina state (Brazil), was operating
satisfactorily from the municipal budget, fit into a well-defined educational strategy, had strong
community support, and the local government was already constructing an additional classroom
using its own resources. In contrast, in El Carmen (Bolivia), the assessment mission found that
medical equipment intended for a health post under the project was still in boxes three years after
being received, waiting for the construction of a new hospital, which had just started.
Maintenance of the town's water pumps and of electrical generators received under the project
also appeared to be deficient, raising concerns about the sustainability of such investments when
municipal governments do not have funds for operation and maintenance.

10.Finally, some industry representativesand governmentofficials in Bolivia have complained
that, as a result of the project, poor communitiesalong other pipelines have raised their demands
for compensationprograms. Many stakeholdershave pointed out the urgent need for standards in
the definition of social impacts, and for criteria for setting appropriatecompensationsfor such
impacts. Clear rules on how to negotiate the magnitude and scope of such compensationand
mitigationprograms are also consideredurgent.

The Indigenous Peoples Development Programs

11.In Bolivia The IPDP for the Bolivian segment resulted from a long process of consultation
                 -
and negotiation, with full participation of indigenous organizations. Its implementation was
supervised by an executive committee that included representatives of indigenous peoples. The
program included a social communication and community integration program, to ensure

                                               74                                     Annex B9


communities' participation, some social infrastructure investments, a sustainable natural
resources management program, which mainly provided technical assistance and training for the
development of strategies and alternative agricultural production activities; and most important, a
program for the demarcation and titling of lands claimed by three indigenous groups, including
the titling of the Izozog community territory (about 1.9million of hectares east of the Kaa Iya -
Chaco National Park), which is crossed by the Gasbol and the new GASRYG pipeline. The latter
program suffered long delays due to institutional bottlenecks in the land titling process.
However, Petrobras has transferred all remaining funds to the IPDP executive committee, and, at
end of 2002, the Capitania del Alto y bajo Izozog (CABI), the leadership organization of the
Izozo communities, informed the assessment mission that the land titling process was near
completion. Also, as commented below, as part of the ecological compensation program, IPDP
also included assistance to CABI in funding recurrent costs and park management investments,
for the administration of the Kaa Iya-Chaco National Park.

12.Finally, most indigenous organizations and communities visited by the assessment mission
generally considered the Bolivia Brazil Pipeline project the first project in Bolivia with co-
management of agreed IPDP and compensation programs, and that it was an example that now
makes easier for them to discuss compensation programs with other companies. They also
reiterated the urgent need for developing compensation norms at national level.

13.In Brazil -The initial EA identified four indigenous communities in Mato Gross0 do Sul
that would potentially be compensated under the project. However, following public
consultations, a special commission was established with the participation of indigenous
representatives, the sponsors, FUNAI, and IBAMA, to identify the components and potential
beneficiaries of an IPDP for the Brazilian segment of the pipeline. The right of way in Brazil
does not pass through any indigenous lands, as per the Brazilian law; and the closest one is 5
kilometers from the pipeline. Nevertheless, 22 indigenous communities were identified in the
broad project area of influence (within 30 kilometers of the pipeline). At the request of
indigenous leaders, the IPDP was organized by community and reflects the needs and priorities
set by each group. The US$l .l million IPDP in Brazil was approved by TBG, FUNAI, and
IBAMA, and its implementation was managed by an executive committee composed of a
sponsor's representative, an indigenous development specialist from FUNAI, and one indigenous
leader from each of the three states. Although with some delays, particularly in the land
acquisition programs, implementation was successfully completed. The indigenous community
visited by the assessment mission in Santa Catarina had chosen a housing program, but
eventually preferred to transfer most of the funds to a neighboring community from the same
Guarani ethnic group for the purchase of land. The community expressed its satisfaction with the
compensation program, although it regretted that the amounts were small.

14.Both in Brazil and Bolivia, the most sustainable programs seemed to be land purchase and/or
demarcation and titling programs, although in both countries these programs took longer to
implement, due to long legal land title clearance and registration procedures. In Bolivia, some
groups have ensured the sustainability of infrastructure programs, such as water wells and
systems and housing improvements, through cost recovery (70 percent and 50 percent cost
recovery, respectively). On the other hand, the mission heard some complaints that technical
assistance and funding of productive activities needed to extend beyond two years to bear fruit.
In Brazil, a number of indigenous community development programs, such as heath posts, do not

                                               75                                     Annex B9


seem to be sustainable due to lack of agreement with local health authorities to ensure that they
would be staffed and supplied.

15.In some instances, mainly in Bolivia, the differential treatment of indigenous communities
(which received substantiallymore under IPDP) and other non-Indian, equally affected, equally
poor, and not too different, neighboring communities, has been reported to have created social
tensions where none existed before.

The Ecological Compensation Program

16.In Brazil As required under Brazilian law, 0.5 percent of the total cost of infrastructure was
              -
provided for the titling and acquisition of land and to strengthen the protection and management
of 12federal and state protected areas in the 5 states traversed by the pipeline. At the end of
December 2002, only 6 projects had been completed or were nearing completion, one was only
40 percent completed, and the remaining 5 had not yet been launched, due to several legal and
administrative obstacles encountered by IBAMA and the environment state agencies and
different priorities expressed by incoming state governments ( S o Paulo). Furthermore, the
implementation of a July 2000 law requiring the establishment of protected area commissions,
with public participation in the management of parks, may further delay the remaining programs.
At the end of December 2002, only 41 percent of program funds had been disbursed, and the
remaining funds had been deposited by TBG in an escrow account.

17.In Bolivia The area of influence of the project includes the Kaa Iya-Chaco National Park
               -
(160 km of pipeline run through the northern part of the park), a very large conservation area
established in 1995by the Government of Bolivia. Responsibility for park administration was
delegated to the Izozeno people represented by the Capitania del Alto y Bajo Izozog (CABI), and
SERNAP, Bolivia's national protected areas agency. As part of IPDP, an amount of US$l
million was deposited in a trust fund managed by CABI, the interest earnings of which provide
incremental revenues for the sustainable management of the park, funding recurrent costs and
park management investments, and preventing the colonization and use of the pipeline's right of
way. The Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) has been selected as trust fund manager. In
addition, CAB1obtained other resources from the project sponsors to implement the project's
reforestation and environmental restoration activities in the Park and adjacent areas. Co-
management by indigenous communities of the Kaa Iya-Chaco National Park appears highly
sustainable, as it builds upon the community's conservation priorities and skills, and on funding
of operational costs and improvements fkom a trust fund. WCS considers that the project
promoted exemplary management of the Kaa Iya-Chaco National Park (as of end of 2002, the
trust fund amount was 1.2million).

The Restoration and Re-Vegetation of the Pipeline Right of Way

18.In Brazil -The restoration and re-planting of the right of way was satisfactorily implemented
in Brazil. Only few deficiencies, mainly in erosion control, were reported by the April-May audit
and inspection reports. A January 2001 IADB environmental inspection mission also reported on
the excellent quality of the right of way maintenance by TBG along the northern section of the
pipeline, but also commented that, in some areas where restoration works were not adequately

                                                       76                                           Annex B9


implemented during the construction of the pipeline, erosion is substantial and will require extra
effort and resources from TBG. Maintenance contracts were signed with specialized enterprises.
Systematic aerial, land, and sub-aquatic inspections are taking place and maintenance services
and necessary improvements are being implemented, mainly to avoid erosion. In the Pantanal, no
significant interference of the pipeline was reported, and except for one platform that provides
access to a control valve, all other access platforms were dismantled. TBG obtained the operating
license from IBAMA for four years in March 2000. This license is subject to a number of
conditions, including control of erosion and re-vegetation, risk management, a pipeline and right
of way maintenance program, and reporting requirements, all of which are being strictly
complied with by TBG.

19.In Bolivia -Re-planting was done twice (the second attempt was with the assistance of the
University of Santa Cruz), but without much success, except for the right of way portion inside
the Kaa Iya-Chaco National Park which was the responsibility of CABI.4 Lack of success was
mainly due to drought and lack of experience. No evidence of colonization, or truck traffic was
detected along the right of way by the assessment mission during an overflight from Santa Cruz
to Puerto Suarez. Most local NGOs met by the mission reiterated that natural regeneration of
vegetation was a better solution and that monitoring and control of the right of way should be left
with local communities. Finally, GTB informed the mission that monitoring of the right of way
is no longer the responsibility of the army, and that a private company was contracted to that
purpose, with the obligation to use and train personnel recruited from the communities along the
right of way.

Indirect and Cumulative Environmental and Social Impacts Associated with the Project in
Bolivia

20. As anticipated by the Strategic Impact Assessment, and claimed by international NGOs,
significant indirect negative environmental and social impacts have been associated with the
project. Intense upstream and downstream activities were stimulated in ecologically and socially
sensitive areas, despite the increased environmental awareness of international oil and gas
companies. These impacts were exacerbated by the lack of strong local environmental
enforcement capacity and willingness.

21. Several initiatives of the Bank and IADB aimed at helping Bolivia improve its environmental
monitoring and enforcement performance in the hydrocarbon sector: (i) The Bank-financed
Hydrocarbon Reform and Capitalization Credit contributed to the establishment of the
environmental regulatory framework and the environmental unit within the Vice Ministry of
Energy and Hydrocarbons. (ii) The Bank provided external funding to support the development
through a dialogue between government agencies, oil companies, and indigenous peoples'
community organizations of regulations for oil operations in indigenous lands, including for a
consultation process and participation of communities in the monitoring and evaluation of
environmental and social impacts of hydrocarbons activities. (iii) An ESMAP program provided
training and basic oil technology to 35 indigenous people representatives. (iv) To address issues


4. The only sections of the pipeline where reforestation occurs are on the border of the Gran Chaco National park
and only on partial width of the right of way, This work is the responsibility of CABI, the park administrator.

                                                       77                                          Annex B9


raised in the Strategic Impact Assessment, IADB provided funds (US$500,000)from an existing
loan to prepare a regional environmental action plan to be implemented under GSDP. IADB was
committed to support the ensuing recommendations of the plan, but, preparation of the plan has
been long delayed by logistical difficulties and government unwillingness to prepare a plan. As a
result, despite some recent progress, environmental regulation, monitoring, and enforcement in
the hydrocarbon sector is still deficient'.

22. Eventually, in 2000, the government accepted Bank support to help correct these
deficiencies, through the ongoing Bolivia Hydrocarbon Social and Environmental Management
Capacity Building Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL). The US$4.8 million LIL seeks to
strengthen central and local governments' capacity for environmental and social monitoring,
licensing, and regulation of the hydrocarbon sector; to increase the provision of timely
information to civil society, and institutionalize systematic procedures for its consultation and
participation; and help to ensure that oil and gas companies follow good social and
environmental practices. Despite continued Bank efforts and insistence however, implementation
of the LIL so far has been uneven and generally disappointing. In retrospect, the Strategic Impact
Assessment prepared late during the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline project preparation did not help to
efficiently address the indirect and cumulative impacts. An earlier assessment of these impacts
as part of the EA process, or through a prior sectoral EA in Bolivia, could have permitted to
address such impacts earlier as part of project design and loan conditions.




5. The Environmental Unit established within the Vice Ministry of Environment and Hydrocarbons is responsible
for the review and follow-up of EAs presented for hydrocarbons projects, including pipelines and exploration and
production projects. However, monitoring and enforcement of these activities is still very weak and some NGOs
have pointed out conflicts of interest between the Environmental Unit's environmental and social responsibilities
and the sector promotion role of the Hydrocarbon Vice Ministry under which it operates.

                                                   78                               Annex C


Annex C. Borrower Comments

                                   MINIST~RIODE MINAS E ENERCIA
                           Esplanada dosSECRETARIAEXECUTIVA
                                     CEP: 70.065-900
                                         Ministkrios,Bloco"U", 7' andar, Sala 702
                                                        - Brasilia DF
                                                                  -
                             Telefones: (61) 319-5211 / 5508- Fax (61) 319-5086
Oficione 1632 /2003/SE/MME
                                                                   Brasilia, 28 de agosto de 2003.


A Sua Senhoriao Senhor
ALAIN BARBU
Gerenteda OperationsEvaluation Department
World Bank


Assunto: BRAZIL Gas Sector Development Project (Ln.4265); Hydrocarbon Transport and
          Processing Project (Ln. 3376) and Suo Paul0 Natural Gas Distribution Project (Ln.
          3043)- Drap Project Performance Assessment Report


               Senhor Gerente,


1.             Refiro-me ao Oficio n2 197/SEAIN-MP, de 5 de agosto de 2003, encaminhado a
esse Departamento pelo Senhor DEMIAN FIOCCA, Secretiirio de Assuntos Internacionais do
MinistCrio do Planejamento,Orqamentoe Gestgo.

2.             Inform0 que o Ministerio de Minas e Energia-MME participou de reunides
juntamente com representantes da SEAMMP, da PETROBRAS, da Transportadora Brasileira
de Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil - TBG e da COMGAS, com o objetivo de avaliar o Relatcirio de
Performance dos seguintes Projetos: BRAZIL Gas Sector Development Project (Ln.4265);
Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project (Ln. 3376) e S2o Paul0 Natural Gas
DistributionProject (Ln. 3043).

3.             Assim, ratifico os termos do mencionado Oficio, colocando o MME a disposiqfio
para participar das hturas reunides sobre este tema.

               Atenciosamente,



                               MAUR~CIOT.         TOLMASQUM
                                      Secretiirio-Executivo




c/c: DAVID DE FERRANTI - Vice-Presidente do Banco Mundial para a Am6rka L a t h e
    Caribe, DemianFiocca - SEAINMP

                                        79                                       Annex C




Alah Bmbu
A Sua$enJwfi& o Sehor
Manager
Opmiions Evaluation Depurtmenr
WorldBank


Assunto: BRALIL Gas Sector Development Pmject (Ln.4265); Hydrooarbon l%mprrunci
           Processing Project (Ln. 3376) and Scro Puulo Natural Gas Distribution I-rojwi
           (Ln,31243)- DrofrProjectPerfnrmmrceAsstswnentRepod




maio de 2003,zt qual foi anexaLfiL minuta do Rdatbrio de Av&-h$o de Perfonnltnce dos
           Refiro-me a correspondhcia mcaminhda por esse Departmento , em 19 de

Projetosacima.mcncionactos.

multilateraisAcorn as t&s csfwas do govemo brasileiro, promovcu, un Brash, reunities
               SMm, cOmo hg& cowdenadordas reh@ea dos wganisrnos intemitcionais

PETROBRAS, da Transportadom Brasileira de Gasoduto Bolivia-Bnrsil - TBO e da
mpecificisscorn aparticipa+ dercprcstntmtcsdo Mini&& dasMinase Encrgia-MME, da
COMGAS, corno objetivodecansdidar os comeu~os       aprwenbdos.



           (1) nb expressamnecessariwnentead d a d edosfatos;
            (2) nib infmm se os objetivos especificos dos projetos form alcanqados,
                apresentando julgamentosdevalor,qURnt0As politicasdo govern0brasileirono
                Retor energ&im, incabiveis em um relatbrio tknico de avaii@o          de
               pcrtbmanccdcprojetos;

           (3) cimputammde comprovqiio,por cmthdo dc oaturczg tcndwiciosa, tanto qurtndo
                 a ~ b c

                governamentaisdate pais, m o quando tatam qualifiw os beneficios das
                         m Banco Mundial grandc influ&cia na dctcimha@o de politicas
                privatiza#h omnicksno cuntexto skicwxon6tnicodopais;

                                         80                                         Annex C



         (4) s b irnyroceckntes, quaito as rcfcrhcias negiitivas fcitus B PETR(JL3RAS, u
             prejudiciais, se divulgrtdas, afmtndo a psi$&)daqueh Enqxcs? cm .wu
             "ruting" intemacionat. 0 relatdrio expressn opinik pawat dos avaliadorcx,
             negativa em rchgiio it grade porticipuC;ito de merdo que a PPI'KOBIXAS
             encrgctico, WlH013RAS tern sib ilfavanca fundamental, e na vedde 11
             dctdm, c ignora realidade de que, em tudo o c;onjuntode projetos do setor
                              8
                         (I
             bnica corn cscala ecanamica svficicnte para banciar titis projdos,
            possibilitando a entrada de outras empresas ptivadns cm iiepdcios e
             financimcntosque uio seefetivariamszm aBUDpmticip@o;
         (5) nib dti o devido destaque para o fata central de que as obrav fisicas do projcto
             "Gasodutv Bolivia-Brasii" foram inteiraniaite realizdas e est50 m plena
             operaqb, gerandorcceitastanto para o Bmd, cornu para a Botivia
         Pelo acimtl exposto,o gupentende que:
         (a) o relatorio em miliiie devo %r reescrito para cumprir o seu prop6sito, isto 6,
             das vruiagks mtre os xesuitados planejados e alcanpdos, e elelividdc gem1
             "avaliar a extenGo mi que os objttimq hram atingidoq determinar as riib
             do apoio do Banco Mundial a &is pmjctos", conhme consla no ptimeiro
                                                                         il

             pnriigafode suacarta de 19demaio;
         (b) maiorescsclaredmcntosdcvmsw prestadosa0 Banco Mumdial corn rela& h
             evo1ur;b mente do setor energetic0 brisilciro, de fonna que a avalin@o
             contida no RdaMrio em pauta, previamcnte B sua distribuiflo h Dircwria do
             Ranw Mundid e sua subsequentepuldica@q yossa ser ajusfadapara expressar
             efktivamentea redididedos     ~`Qs.




Mundiai p a partidpar de reuniiio, em Bm.siiia, em dia ehortirioquemeMr lhes convier.
         Neste scntido, a SEAI'N convida representantes dwse Dcpcutamcnto e do Banco

            Certosdasua cornpreensib,aguardo wntalo.

            Atenciosmente,


                  L.


                                   DEMIAN IFIOCCA
                          SecretSrio de Assunto9 Intcrnmionais
                    Ministtriodo I'lanejnmnto, OrqamcntoeGestilo

                                               81                                Annex C


English Translation of the original letter


                             MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY
                          OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
                    Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "U," 7thfloor, Room 702
                                  Brasilia DF Brazil 70.065-900
                      Telephones: (61) 319-5211/5508 -Fax (61) 319-5086

Official Communication No. 1632/2003/SE/MME

Brasilia, August 28, 2003
Mr. Alain Barbu
Manager, Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank

Subject:        BRAZIL Gas Sector Development Project (Ln. 4265); Hydrocarbon Transport
and Processing Project (Ln. 3376)and Si0 Paul0 Natural Gas Distribution Project (Ln. 3043)-
Draft Project Performance Assessment Report.

Dear Sir:

1.     I am writing in reference to official communication No. 197/SEAIN-MPYof
August 5,2003, sent to your department by Mr. Demian Fiocca, Secretary for International
Affairs in the Ministry of Planning, Budget, and Management.

2.     The Ministry of Mines and Energy -MME, attended meetings along with representatives
of SEAIN/MP, PETROBRh, Transportadora Brasileira de Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil TBG, and
                                                                                 -
COMGAS, to evaluate the Performance Report on the following projects: BRAZIL Gas Sector
Development Project (Ln. 4265); Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project (Ln. 3376)
and Si0 Paulo Natural GasDistribution Project (Ln. 3043).

3.     I endorse the content of the aforementioned official communication. The MME remains
available to attend future meetings on this subject.

Very truly yours,
/s/ Mauricio T. Tolmasquim
Executive Secretary


cc:    David de Ferranti World Bank, Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean
                           -
Demian Fiocca SEAIN/MP
                -

                                                  82                                      .AnnexC



                  MINISTRY OF PLANNING, BUDGET, AND MANAGEMENT
               OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
                           Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K," 5thfloor
                                     seain@,planejamento.qov.br


Official Communication No. 197BEAIN-MP
Brasilia, August 5,2003

Mr. Alain Barbu
Manager, Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank

Subject:         BRAZIL Gas Sector Development Project (Ln. 4265); Hydrocarbon Transport
and Processing Project (Ln. 3376) and Si0 Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project (Ln. 3043)        -
Draft Project Performance Assessment Report.

Dear Sir:

I refer to a letter from your department, dated May 19,2003, attaching a draft Performance
Assessment Report on the aforementioned projects.

This office, SEAIN, as coordinator of relations between multilateral international organizations
and the three branches of the Brazilian Government, has held meetings in Brasilia that were
attended by representatives of the Ministry of Mines and Energy -MME, PETROBdS,
Transportadora Brasileira de Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil -TBG, and COMGAS, specifically to
consolidate a response to the comments made.

After lengthy discussions, it is the consensus of the group that the assessment and the comments
made by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED):

(1)      do not necessarily convey the actual factual situation;

(2)      do not reach a conclusion as to whether the specific objectives of the projects have been
attained; they include valuejudgments concerning the Brazilian government's policies in the
energy sector that have no place in a technical project performance assessment report;

(3)      offer no corroboration, because of their tendentious content, either when attributing to the
World Bank a major influence on policy decisions made by the government of this country or
when attempting to assess the benefits of the privatizations that have taken place in this country's
socio-economic structure;

(4)      are unjustified as regards the negative references to PETROBdS, and harmful if made
public since they would affect that company's international "rating." The report expresses the
personal opinions of the evaluators, which are negative as regards PETROBdS'Shuge market

                                                 83                                     Amex C


share. They ignore the reality that, in all these energy sector projects, PETROBRh has been a

projects. This has enabled other private companies to enter into deals and financing arrangements
vital force and, truthfully, the only firmthat has sufficient economic scale to finance such
that they could conclude without PETROBRh participation.

(5)     do not give sufficiently underscore the central fact that construction of the physical
facilities of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline has been fully completed and those facilities are in
full-scale operation, generating revenues for both Brazil and Bolivia.

In light of the foregoing, the group believes:

(a)     The report should be rewritten so as to fulfill its purpose, which is "to evaluate the extent
to which objectives were achieved, determine the reasons for gap between planned results and
achieved results, and address the general effectiveness of World Bank support to those projects,"
as stated in the first paragraph of your May 19 letter;

(b)     Further explanations should be provided to the World Bank concerning recent trends in
the Brazilian energy sector, so that before the report is distributed to the Board of Directors of
the World Bank and subsequently published, the evaluation contained in it can be adapted to
effectively portray the realities of the actual situation.

To that end, SEAIN invites representatives of your department and of the World Bank to attend a
meeting in Brasilia on whatever date and time is most convenient for you.

Certain of your understanding of this matter, I await your response.

Very truly yours,

/s/ Demian Fiocca
Secretary for International Affairs
Ministry of Planning, Budget, and Management




cc: David de Ferranti -World Bank, Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean;
Nelson de Franco, Department of Energy, World Bank; Vinod Thomas Representative of the
                                                                           -
World Bank Brazil; MME; PETROBdS; COMGAS; TBG; Secretary of Energy, State of S3o
Paulo.

