Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4265-BR
Loan Agreement
(Gas Sector Development Project - Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TRANSPORTADORA BRASILEIRA GASODUTO BOLÍVIA-BRASIL S/A
Dated December 17, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4265-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TRANSPORTADORA BRASILEIRA GASODUTO 
BOLÍVIA-BRASIL S/A (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project is the Brazilian section of the project for the construction 
of an integrated gas pipeline extending from a point near the city of Rio Grande, in 
Bolivia, to or near the city of Campinas, in Brazil, and then to the city of Porto 
Alegre, in Brazil, with a lateral line from the city of Campinas to the city of 
Guararema, in Brazil, including conduits, compressors, meters, valves and other 
appurtenant facilities, such pipeline to be about 3,150 kilometers long and to have a 
gas transportation capacity of about 30 million cubic meters per day (the 
Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project);
(C)
for the purposes of ensuring the feasibility of the carrying out and 
operation of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project, agreements were entered into and 
will be entered into, as described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to govern the 
supply of natural gas, the carrying out of the Bolivian section of the Bolivia-Brazil 
Page  2
Gas Pipeline Project, the transportation of such gas in the Bolivian and Brazilian 
territories, and the undertakings of the shareholders of the Borrower in respect of 
their equity and other financing contributions to the Borrower;
(D)
for purposes of financing the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
intends: (i) to contract from: (I) the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) a loan 
(the IDB Loan) in an amount of $240,000,000 equivalent on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and IDB; (II) the Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF) a loan in an amount of 
$80,000,000 equivalent (the CAF Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the CAF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CAF; 
(III) the European Investment Bank (EIB) a loan in an amount of $60,000,000 equivalent 
(the EIB Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; and (IV) certain financial 
institutions, through Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. - PETROBRAS (Petrobras), loans in an 
aggregate amount of up to $417,000,000 equivalent (the Other Loans), as required for 
the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in contractual arrangements (the 
Petrobras Lending Arrangements) to be entered into by the Borrower and Petrobras and, 
when applicable, such financial institutions; and (ii) to issue non-convertible bonds, 
with the partial guarantee of the Bank, in an amount of up to $180,000,000 equivalent 
(the Bond Issue), as required for the Project;
(E)
the Guarantor, through its Minister of Mines and Energy: (i) delivered to 
the Bank a letter, dated November 26, 1997 (the Policy Letter), describing, inter 
alia, the Guarantor’s plan to implement its program for fuels price deregulation and 
the guidelines for the implementation of the Guarantor’s Law No. 9478, of August 6, 
1997 (the Hydrocarbons Law), and expressing the Guarantor’s commitments regarding the 
authorization for the operation of the Project, the Guarantor’s participation in the 
capital of the Borrower and the carrying out with the Bank of a mid-term review to 
assess progress of the actions to be taken under the Policy Letter; and (ii) will 
employ consultants (the Oil and Gas Sector Consultants) for the purposes of assisting 
the Guarantor in the carrying out of the studies and training activities required for 
the initial implementation of the provisions of the Hydrocarbons Law, such 
consultants’ services to be financed under Loan 3376-BR, provided pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement between the Bank and Petrobras, dated October 26, 1992, as amended;
(F)
the Bank has been authorized by the Government of Bolivia, through its 
letter dated November 12, 1997, to visit, from time to time, the Bolivian territory 
for purposes related to the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project;
(G)
Petrobras, through the letter sent to the Bank on November 25, 1997 (the 
Petrobras Letter), in its capacity as the contractor in charge of the construction of 
the gas pipeline in the Bolivian section of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project, 
has undertaken to comply with certain obligations regarding the carrying out of such 
section of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project, including the carrying out of the 
plans, issued in September 1997 (or any amendment to such plans, satisfactory to the 
Bank) for the implementation of environmental protection measures and development of 
indigenous population in connection with the carrying out of such section;
(H)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  3
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Brazil EMP” means the environmental management plan, issued in July 1997 
(or any amendment thereto satisfactory to the Bank), which provides for the 
implementation of environmental protection measures in connection with the execution 
of the Project, including ecological compensation projects to be carried in accordance 
with the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Brazil IPDP” means a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be issued 
pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of this Agreement (or any amendment thereto satisfactory 
to the Bank), for the development of the indigenous population affected or to be 
affected by the carrying out of the Project; 
(c)
“Brazil TCO Capacity” means the capacity of TBG to transport on behalf of 
Petrobras the TCO;
(d)
“Brazil TCQ Capacity” means the capacity of TBG to transport on behalf of 
Petrobras the TCQ;
(e)
“Charter” means the Borrower’s charter, approved by its shareholders on 
April 18, 1997, and amended on June 25, 1997, and as may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank;
(f)
“Environmental Auditor” means the firm referred to in Section 3.03 (b) 
(ii)of this Agreement;
(g)
“Environmental Supervision Firm” means the firm referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
“TCO” means the quantity of up to six million cubic meters of gas per day 
in excess of the TCQ;
(j)
“TCQ” means the minimum quantity of gas per day which YPFB is obligated 
to sell and deliver to Petrobras pursuant to the Natural Gas Supply Agreement referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
Page  4
(k)
“Vegetation Management Plan” means the plan referred to in Section 3.05 
(c) of this Agreement; and
(l)
“YPFB” means Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos, the Bolivian 
state oil and gas company.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
and thirty million Dollars ($130,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
the works required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
Page  5
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on March 15 and 
September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, engineering, financial, administrative and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out, as provided therein, the Brazil EMP and the Brazil IPDP with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate environmental and 
social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds and other resources 
required therefor;
(b)
employ, during the execution of the Brazil EMP and the Brazil IPDP: (i) a 
firm, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (the Environmental 
Supervision Firm), under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of 
assisting the Borrower in the supervision of the carrying out of such EMP and IPDP; 
and (ii) a firm, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Environmental Auditor), for purposes of: carrying out independent audits of the 
compliance by the Borrower of its obligations under such EMP and IPDP;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, every two months during the execution of the Brazil 
EMP and the Brazil IPDP: (i) the report of the Environmental Supervision Firm, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress in the 
carrying out of such EMP and IPDP, and (ii) the opinion of the Environmental Auditor 
on the compliance by the Borrower of its obligations under such EMP and IPDP; and
(d)
not later than January 31, 1999, enter, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, into the contractual arrangements required for purposes of 
the carrying out of the ecological compensation programs under the Brazil EMP.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than April 30, August 31 and 
December 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
progress in the carrying out and operation (if applicable) of the Project during the 
immediately preceding four-month period.
Page  6
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than January 31, 1999, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, not later than January 31, 1999, a plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the maintenance within the right-of-way of the 
Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project of trees, grasses and other natural vegetation 
(the Vegetation Management Plan); and
(d)
not later than twelve months after the date of this Agreement, evidence 
that it has entered into contractual arrangements with the entity in charge of 
transporting gas in the Bolivian section of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project to 
govern the relationship between the Borrower and such entity in the operation of their 
respective sections of such Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1999, send requests 
for proposals, satisfactory to the Bank, to a short-list, acceptable to the Bank, of 
potential arrangers for the Bond Issue.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably requested.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than October 1 of each year, furnish 
to the Bank financial projections, demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the Bank, 
that it has the financial resources required to carry out and/or operate the Project 
and to comply with its debt service requirements and other financial obligations under 
the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall not declare and pay dividends to its 
shareholders unless it: (i) is in full compliance with its Project-related financial 
obligations; (ii) has demonstrated availability of sufficient financial resources to 
comply with all its Project-related financial obligations after such dividend payment; 
and (iii) has cumulative net profits or unencumbered cash flow at least equal to the 
amount of the proposed dividend payment, distributable in accordance with Brazilian 
law.
(b)
The Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, acquire 
the shares of its subscribed capital, nor reduce the amount of its subscribed capital, 
provided that such approval by the Bank shall not be refused if the Borrower 
reasonably demonstrates that such acquisition or reduction will not have a material 
adverse effect on the Borrower’s financial condition.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall not incur any debt in addition to the debt 
to be contracted for the Project as described in WHEREAS (D) in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and for financing compressor stations necessary in order to enable the 
transportation of 30,000,000 cubic meters per day of natural gas: (i) unless the sum 
of the Borrower’s net cash flow and unencumbered liquid assets, projected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, for the fiscal year 
in which such debt is incurred and for each fiscal year thereafter, shall be at least 
1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any 
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred; 
or (ii) if after the incurrence of such debt the Borrower’s ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 67 to 33.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “net cash flow” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
and net 
non-operating income; and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the  difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of the revenues referred to in (A) 
above.
(iii)
The term “liquid assets” means cash, marketable securities and 
other tradeable 
financial instruments not required for the Borrower’s 
operations.
(iv)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower (other than 
Page  8
subordinated debt and liabilities related to the 
Brazil TCO Capacity) of the 
Borrower maturing by its terms more than 
one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred, but not 
including the portion of such debt falling due 
in the current 
fiscal year.
(v)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and 
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
(vi)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings, subordinated debt, liabilities 
related to the funding of 
the Brazil TCO Capacity, and reserves of the 
Borrower not allocated to cover 
specific liabilities.
Section 4.05. For the purposes of Sections 4.02 and 4.04 of this Agreement, the 
term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of repayments (including 
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with the 
Charter and appropriate administrative, financial, commercial, gas transportation and 
environmental practices (including the Vegetation Management Plan), under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering, financial, gas 
transportation and environmental practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 5.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, 
furnish to the Bank a report describing the risks that may affect the Borrower’s 
assets, and recommending the insurance coverage applicable to such risks.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the parties to any of the agreements referred to in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement (or to any amendment, assignment or other agreement referred to in 
Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement) shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations thereunder, and such failure has affected or may in the future affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out or the operation of 
the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project.
(b)
The Bond Issue shall not have been fully subscribed by September 30, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree, provided that the Bank shall not 
Page  9
exercise its rights under this paragraph if (i) at any time before such date, either 
the Bank and the Borrower shall agree that it is not financially justified for the 
Borrower to raise funds through the Bond Issue or the Guarantor establishes that the 
Bond Issue would be inconsistent with the Guarantor’s strategy for market access, and 
(ii) the Borrower, not later than September 30, 1999, establishes to the satisfaction 
of the Bank that it has obtained from other sources an amount of up to $180,000,000 
equivalent as required for the Project, under terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan, the 
CAF Loan, the EIB Loan or any of the Other 
Loans shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the respective 
agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan or any bond issued pursuant to the Bond Issue 
shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
(d)
Petrobras shall have failed to comply with any of its undertakings under 
the Petrobras Letter, and such failure has affected or may in the future affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the 
Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project.
(e)
The Guarantor shall have failed to comply with its obligations set forth 
in paragraphs 10, 11 and 13 of the Policy Letter.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
any of the agreements referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement to which the 
Borrower is a party, and such failure (i) has affected or may in the future affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out or the operation of 
the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project, and (ii) shall continue to exist for a period 
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
(c)
Any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the agreements referred to in paragraphs 4 through 10 of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall be substantially consistent 
with those set forth in the term sheets for such agreements, sent to the Bank on 
September 22, 1997, (or any amendment, assignment or agreement, consistent with the 
objectives of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project, which may affect or replace any 
of the agreements referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement), have been entered into by the respective parties thereto;
Page  10
(b)
all conditions (except those requiring the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) precedent to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under the IDB 
Loan Agreement, the CAF Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement and the Petrobras 
Lending Arrangements have been fulfilled;
(c)
the Environmental Supervision Firm and the Environmental Auditor have 
been employed;
(d)
the Oil and Gas Sector Consultants have started to provide consulting 
services to the Guarantor;
(e)
the Borrower has engaged the key technical, administrative and financial 
staff required to enable the Borrower to carry out the Project and comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement;
(f)
the Brazil IPDP has been issued;
(g)
this Agreement has been registered with the Central Bank of \0bBrazil.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Charter and the agreements referred to in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement (or any amendment, assignment or other agreement which may affect or replace 
any of the agreements referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of such Schedule) are in 
full force and effect and are valid and binding to the respective parties thereto; and
(b)
that this Agreement has been validly registered with the Central Bank of 
Brazil.
Section 7.03. The date March 20, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Director Superintendent of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Transportadora Brasileira Gasoduto Bolivia-Brasil S/A
Praia do Flamengo 200, 25( andar
22210-060 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  11
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
TRANSPORTADORA BRASILEIRA GASODUTO
    BOLIVIA-BRASIL S/A
By /s/ Cesar Dias Ramos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to such Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
Works under Part B 
130,000,000
72%
of the Project
TOTAL
130,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop a gas market in the south and 
southeast regions of Brazil through the construction of a gas pipeline.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Northern Leg
Construction of the section of the main trunkline of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas 
Pipeline Project extending from the city of Corumbá to the city of Campinas, with a 
diameter of 32 inches, and of a lateral line from the city of Campinas to the city of 
Guararema, with a diameter of 24 inches, with an aggregate extension of about 1,400 
Page  12
kilometers, including conduits, compressors, meters, valves and other appurtenant 
facilities.
Part B:
Southern Leg
Construction of the section of the line of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline 
Project extending from the city of Campinas to the city of Porto Alegre, with a 
diameter of 24 to 16 inches and an extension of about 1,180 kilometers, including 
conduits, compressors, meters, valves and other appurtenant facilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
September 15, 2001
3,765,000
March 15, 2002 
3,880,000
September 15, 2002
4,000,000
March 15, 2003 
4,120,000
September 15, 2003
4,245,000
March 15, 2004 
4,370,000
September 15, 2004
4,505,000
March 15, 2005 
4,640,000
September 15, 2005
4,780,000
March 15, 2006 
4,925,000
September 15, 2006 
5,070,000
March 15, 2007 
5,225,000
September 15, 2007 
5,385,000
March 15, 2008 
5,545,000
September 15, 2008 
5,715,000
March 15, 2009 
5,885,000
September 15, 2009 
6,065,000
March 15, 2010 
6,245,000
September 15, 2010 
6,435,000
March 15, 2011 
6,630,000
September 15, 2011 
6,830,000
March 15, 2012 
7,035,000
September 15, 2012 
7,455,000
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Works under Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
(the Guidelines), under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto, including the following 
provisions:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
Page  13
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include the 
provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for 
works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works under Part B of the Project 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to all contracts for works under Part B of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $17,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  14
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  15
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Contractual Framework
1.
Natural Gas Supply Agreement, dated August 16, 1996, between YPFB and Petrobras, 
whereby, inter alia (a) YPFB agreed to sell and deliver to Petrobras, and Petrobras 
agreed to purchase and receive the TCQ; (b) YPFB granted to Petrobras an irrevocable 
option, with preference over third parties, to purchase up to 30 million cubic meters 
of gas per day, to the extent that the quantities of gas in addition to the TCQ are 
not required to meet demands in the Bolivian domestic market and such quantities of 
gas are available; and (c) Petrobras will pay an amount equivalent to $81,000,000 for 
the advance purchase of an option to have the exclusive right to use pipeline capacity 
to have transported the TCO.
2.
Advance Payment Contract, dated August 16, 1996, between Petrobras and YPFB, 
whereby Petrobras has agreed to provide $280,000,000 towards execution of the Bolivian 
portion of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project, such funds to be reimbursed with 
interest to Petrobras through a credit for gas transportation tariff charges that 
would otherwise become payable by Petrobras to the entity in charge of transporting 
gas in the Bolivian section of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline Project to fund 
pipeline transportation services.
3.
Engineering, Procurement and Construction Turnkey Contract, dated as of 
September 4, 1996, between Petrobras and YPFB, providing for the carrying out by 
Petrobras, on a turnkey basis, of the Bolivian portion of the Bolivia-Brazil Gas 
Pipeline Project, for a fixed price of $350,000,000.
4.
TBG Shareholders Agreement, to be entered into by the Borrower’s shareholders, 
setting forth the terms and conditions of each shareholder’s interest in the Borrower 
and the governance thereof.
5.
TBG Shareholders Funding Agreement, to be entered into by the Borrower’s 
shareholders, setting forth the terms and conditions for the funding of the Borrower 
by such shareholders with an aggregate amount equivalent to $310,000,000, through 
equity subscriptions and subordinated debt, and any commitments and arrangements to 
fund certain cost overruns that may be incurred by the Borrower in the construction of 
the pipeline.
6.
Brazil TCO Funding Agreement, to be entered into by Petrobras and the Borrower, 
pursuant to which Petrobras will provide the Borrower with $302,000,000 for the 
advance purchase of an option whereby Petrobras has the exclusive right to use 
pipeline capacity to have transported the TCO.
7.
Overrun Funding Arrangements, to be entered into by the Borrower under which the 
Borrower will be provided with up to $200,000,000 to fund cost overruns in excess of 
the amount of cost overruns to be funded by the Borrower’s shareholders pursuant to 
the TBG Shareholders Funding Agreement referred to in paragraph 5 above.
8.
Construction Management Agreement, to be entered into by the Borrower and 
Petrobras, whereby Petrobras, through its Engineering Services Superintendency, will 
provide construction supervision, construction coordination and construction 
management services in respect of the Project.
9.
Brazil TCQ Agreement, to be entered into by YPFB, the Borrower and Petrobras, 
setting forth the terms and conditions under which the Borrower will transport gas for 
Petrobras using the Brazil TCQ Capacity.
10.
Brazil TCO Agreement, to be entered into by YPFB, the Borrower and Petrobras, 
setting forth the terms and conditions under which the Borrower will transport gas for 
Petrobras using the Brazil TCO Capacity.
Page  16
