RETURN, TO
REPORTS5 DESK                    R E STR IC TE D
PRITHIN DE5K                  Report No. P-596
ONE WEEK         FIL LCC c-
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
FOR THE THIRD POWER EXPANSION PROGRAM
COLOMBIA
May 16, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
FOR THE THIRD POWER EXPANSION PROGRAM
COLOMBIA
1.        I submit the follow-ring report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencics equivalent to US$18.0 million to
Emprcsa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (Empresa).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan would be the third Bank loan to the Emprosa
to assist in financing its continuing expansion program. The first loan
of US$17.6 million was made in January 1960 and the second of US$50.0
million in May 1962, for the financing of additions of about 300 MW hydro
and thermal generating capacity together with extension of transmission
and distribution systems. The work financed by the first loan was com-
pleted in 1963. Construction under the second loan was delayed by un-
expected problems encountered in tunneling and in stabilizing a large soil
mass which affected the penstock and powerhouse. The project was sub-
stantially completed in mid-1967.
3.        In addition to these loans for power in Bogota, the Bank has
made another 11 loans totalling US$130.8 million for power enterprises
serving the cities of Cali, Medellin and Manizales, and which have helped
to build these enterprises  into centers of power generation for their
respective regions. Five years ago it was foreseen that this separate
regional develonment of power would become less economic with the ex-
haustion of the possibilities of exploiting cheap hydro power by rela-
tively small individual stages, appropriate to the scale of each regional
power market. The next generation of hydro power sites would require
projects the output of which would be too great to be immediately absorbed
by any one regional market. As the four regions on which the Bank has
focussed its lending for power accounted for most of the country's eco-
nomic activity, and about two-thirds of its power demand, the intercon-
nection of these regions was the obvious means of establishing a larger
market for power, anpropriate to the scale of prospective hydro projects.
4.        A joint study was therefore undertaken by the four power enter-
prises of an interconnected power system. This study, completed in 1965,
clearly demonstrated the economic advantages which could result from the
interconnection of the four power enterprises, and the subsequent cen-
tral programming of future power development. From that time, the real-
ization of these advantages became the criterion for further Bank lending
in the power sector, implying that the preparation of further Bank power
projects should wait upon the establishment of suitable arrangements for



-2-
proceeding with an interconnection project (which is among those which
are expected for presentation to the Executive Directors in the next few
months). On the assumption that this step would be taken in mid-1967,
the Bogota Third Power B pansion Program was appraised early in 1967,
after receipt of a formal request in late 1966. However, the establish-
ment of arrangements for interconnection was delayed u=til the end of
1967, and the completion of the appraisal report for the Bogota program
was correspondingly postponed until early 1968.
5.        Negotiations for the Bogota Power loan took place in Washing-
ton April 8 - lB, 1968.  Empresa was represented by 1r. Virgilio Barco,
Mayor of Bogota and President of the Board of Directors; Mr. Hernan
Borrero, General Manager; and Mr. Ronaldo Alvarez, Financial Sub-iManager.
The Government was represented by Mr. Jose Camacho, Minister Counselor
of the Colombian Embassy and lr. Omar Botero of the Department of Planning.
6.        The proposed loan would bring the Banzk's total lending to
Colombia to US$486.0 million (net of cancellations and excluding the
proposed loan of US$14.0 million for Bogota water supply). In addition,
an IDA credit of US$19.5 million for highways was made in 1961. The
following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Colombia
as of April 30, 1968:
Loan/                                              Amount (Us$ 1i1lion)
Credit                                                          Utndis-
No.     Year Borrower                    Purpose   Bank    IDA   bursed
Fully disbursed
Total (less cancellations)           313.8
5       1961 Government                  Roads            19.5     1.1
345     1963 Acerias Paz del Rio S.A.    «teel     30.0            6.14
369     19614 Eknpresas Publicas de
Medellin                   Power     45.0          28.2
448     1966 Government                  Agri-
culture   16.7           13.2
4z51    1966 Banco de la Republica       Industry  25.0           10.9
1499    1967  Empresa Nacional de        Conmuni-
Telecomunicaciones         cations   16.0          15.2
502     1967  Instituto Colombiano de la  Irriga-
Reforma Agraria            tion       9.0           9.0
Total (less cancellations)                 455.5  19.5    84.0
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                            99.6
Total now outstanding                      355.9
Amount sold                    16.7
of which has been repaid      13.9         2.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA             353.1  29.5
Total undisbursed                          82.9    1.2    84.o



-3-
7.        Twenty-three loans have been comnpletely disbursed and four
have been repaid in full,  On the remainder, disbursements are proceeding
normally.
8.        Together with this report, I am submitting to the Executive
Directors a proposed loan of US$14.0 million to the Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado de Bogota for improvement and expansion of the city's
water supply system. This loan, if made, would raise the Bank's total
lending in Colombia to US$500.0 million. In the next few months I expect
to present to the Executive Directors the following loans: a loan of
about US$16.0 million for Power Interconnection, a loan of about US$8.0
million to the Government for Secondary Education, a loan of about US$16.0
million to the Government for Highways, and a loan of US$15.0 million for
Railway Rehabilitation.
9.        IFC has made 21 investments and underwriting comnitments in 13
enterprises in Colombia totalling US$14.7 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
10.
Borrower:            Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(Empresa).
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia.
Amount:              The equivalent in various currencies of
US$18.0 million.
Purpose:             To assist in financing the expansion of
power generation and distribution in the
Bogota area.
Amortization:        20 years, including 3½2 years of grace;
33 semi-annual repayments beginning on
May 15, 1972 and ending on May 15, 1988.
Interest rate:       G-4 percent.
Commitment charge:   3/4 of 1 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Third Expansion
Program" (TO-637a) on the project is attached.
12.       Bogota, the capital of Colombia, is the principal manufacturing,
administrative and commercial center of the country. With its surrounding



area it includes a population of about 2 million. The Empresa de Energia
Electrica supplies the electric power consumed in the Bogota area and cur-
rently has an installed generating capacity of 456 MW, including reserve
facilities. About two-thirds of this capacity was constructed under two
previous Bank loans. As a result of these completed projects the deferred
demand has been satisfied and restrictions on consumption have been lifted.
The average rate of consumption growth since 1961 was about 11 percent per
year, with the rate of increase somewhat lower in the past three years. A
continuation of the recent rate of growth is forecast for the period 1968-
1974 during which consumption would approximately double.   Peak demand of
the system is expected to increase from 295 MW in 1967 to 620 Idr' in 1974.
Bogota should be able to supply its own power requirer:ents and also export
power to other regions, except for an intervalin the summer and fall of
1971 when existing capacity will become inadequate, ju:,st bofore this proj-
ect comes into operation. The local deficit in this period can be met by
imports from a thermal station already connected by a 115 km long trans-
mission line. Although the Empresa's own generation sources would become
inadequate again in about 1973, other new generation sources in other parts
of the proposed interconnected system, which would come into operation at
the end of 1971, would cover the ensuing deficiency. The next generation
plant in the Bogota system after the plantsin the current project would
come into operation in about 1975.
13.       The Empresa is an autonomous municipally-owned public utility
which serves Bogota and vicinity. The Mayor of Bogota is the President
of the Board of Directors which, commencing on June 1, 1968, will consist
of 2 members elected by the Municipal Council, 3 members chosen by the
Council from lists submitted by associations representative of banks,
commerce, and industry of Bogota, and 1 member chosen by the President of
the Republic. The Board appoints a manager responsible for day-to-day
operations. A Colombian consulting firm has had a long standing relation-
ship with the Empresa and serves to augment the Empresals planning and
engineering capabilities.
14.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $43.7 million
equivalent including interest during construction. Its principal features
are as follows:
A.  Completion of the existing El Colegio hydro plant, by
the addition of three 50 MW units, to its final 300 MW
capacity. Since the new units would utilize some facil-
ities included in the first stage of the plant, the cost
per kilowatt installed for this plant is $65. The unit
cost for the total 300 W installation would be about
$158 per kilowatt.
B.  Construction of the Canoas hydro plant, with one 50 MW
unit. In addition to generating power, this plant will
control the supply of water for the rest of the hydro
generating system which is built in a series on a 25 km
stretch of the Bogota River. The cost of this installed



-5-
capacity is estimated at about $245 per kilowatt.
C. Expansion and improvement of transmission and distribution
system facilities scheduled during the period 1968-1970
required to market the power to be generated by the planned
addition to capacity. This also includes extension of
street lighting facilities.
15.       The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at
US$25.0 million equivalent, excluding interest during construction. Of
this sum, up to US$18.0 million would be from the Bank loan and not less
than US$7.0 million from supplier countries participating in joint fi-
nancing (described below). The local currency component of US$18.7
million includes funds to cover interest and would be provided by the
borrower from internal cash generation. Other construction planned
during the project construction period amounts to about uS$5.3 million
equivalent. Thus, of the total investment in power facilities, including
interconnection, over the 1968-71 period, about 56 percent would be fi-
nanced from internal resources.
16.       All contracts proposed for Bank financing are to be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Bidding is quite advanced
and awards have already been made for about one half the value of the
goods. The issuance of bidding documents proceeded last year in accordance
with a schedule for the submission of the Bank's loan to the Executive Di-
rectors which was interrupted, as explained above, by delays in arrange-
ments for the interconnection project. After consultation with the Bank,
but on its own responsibility, the Empresa made down payments or opened
letters of credit on some long delivery items so as not to delay execu-
tion of the project. Reimbursements of past expenditures on this account,
limited to payments made within four months of the date of loan approval,
would amount to not more than US$2.5 million.
17.       The Empresa's financial position, while presently satisfactory,
has been strained during the past three years due to increases in operating
and construction costs and delays in applying for and obtaining needed
tariff adjustments. The latest tariff increase of November 1966 raised
the average revenue per kwh sold to the equivalent of US I1.4 mills which
is moderate by comparison to power tariffs in other countries. This tar-
iff is considered adequate at the present time.
18.       The Empresa and the Government would agree to take all appro-
priate steps (including tariff adjustments) required to provide net rev-
enues after operating expenses sufficient to produce a reasonable rate of
return on net fixed assets in operation. It has been agreed that, on
the basis of present estimates of the Empresa's financial requirements,
a return of at least 9 percent on net assets would be required. On this
basis, the Enpresa should be able to contribute substantial funds to fi-
nancing its expansion. Pending introduction of a satisfactory method of
revaluation of assets of public utilities generally, locally acquired
assets will be revalued periodically using a cost of living index and
assets acquired abroad would be revalued on the basis of the exchange



-6-
rate between the Colombian peso and the U.S. dollar. The adequacy of
the Empresa's tariffs would be reviewed quarterly and any necessary ad-
justments in the tariff structure would be introduced by the end of
the following quarter.
19.       Arrangements have been made for the financing of this project
on a joint basis with supplier countries. The Memorandum on Joint Fi-
nancing of Projects in Colombia and Mexico (JF 68-2, of January 24,
1968), which is attached, agreed upon by the twelve countries, provides
for the financing of procurement in the participating countries for
three Colombian projects in accordance with the following formula:
External financing of the imported goods would be 50 percent by the
Bank and 50 percent by the supplying country. This would apply only
to individual orders for imported goods of at least US$200,000, pro-
vided that the accumulated value of such orders placed in the country
is at least US$1.0 million for each individual project.
20.       The proposed loan of US$18.0 million takes into account con-
tracts already awarded on the basis of completed bidding. These con-
tracts should result in financing from participants of not less than
US$4.0 million and it is estimated that about US$3.0 million of addi-
tional financing will be provided from supplying countries for cortracts
to be awarded, making a minimum total of US$7 million. The Bank loan
agreement would contain provision for early cancellation of any excess
amounts should contracts eligible for joint financing be higher than
this minimal joint financing estimate.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empresa de
Energia Electrica de Bogota and the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Colombia and the Bank as well as a Report of the Committee,
provided for in Article III. Section L (iii) of th, 'rticTes of Agroemnt
of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
22.       These draft Agreements contain covenants normally included in
agreements for power projects. Particular attention is drawn to the
provisions requiring the Borrower and the Guarantor to use their best
efforts to secure other loans (under the joint financing arrangements)
for the project (Section 5.13 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.07
of the Guarantee Agreement); the Bank would be entitled to reduce the
loan by any amount in excess of the foreign exchange requirements of
the Project, after taking into account the joint financing arrangements
made (Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement). The Bank would also agree
to adjust, within limits, the Amortization Schedule for the loan to
reflect the amortization of other loans under the joint financing ar-
rangements so as to provide an aggregate amortization of the external fi-
nancing for this Project reasonably approximate to that which would be
normally applicable to a Bank loan of the same maturity (Section 2.07 of
the Loan Agreement).



-7-
23.       The Borrower would undertake not to incur, without the consent
of the Bank, debt with a maturity of a year or more in excess of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the Project unless its net revenues
for the 12 months prior to the incurrence of the debt cover at least 1.3
times its maximum future debt service in any one year (Section 5.07 of
the Loan Agreement).
2h.       The Borrower and the Guarantor would agree to take all appro-
priate action required to maintain the Borrower's revenues at a level
sufficient to produce a reasonable return on the Borrower's net fixed
assets in operation (Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.05
of the Guarantee Agreement). Detailed arrangements for the implementation
of the undertaking concerning revenues and tariffs referred to in paragraph
18 will be embodied in an exchange of letters.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
25.       A section on the Colombian economr is contained in the Pres-
ident's Report on the Proposed Loan to Banco de la Republica in Colombia
for the Development Finance Companies Project (P-592 of May 2, 1968).
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT.
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



-8-
PART VII - RECCM±ENNDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUT ION NO.
Approval of Loan to Empresa de Energia Electrica de
Bogota (Third Expansion Program) in the amount of the
equivalent of US$18,000,000 to be guaranteed by the
Republic of Colombia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Empresa de Energia Elec-
trica de Bogota, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million United
States dollars (US$18,000,000), to mature on and prior to May 15, 1988,
to bear interest at the rate of six and one quarter percent (614 %) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be sub-
stantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Loan Agreement (Third Expansion Program) between the Bank and
Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota, and the form of Guarantee
Agreement (Third Expansion Program) between the Republic of Colombia
and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May ]6, 1968.



