Page  1
 
 
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No: AC192 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: July 22, 2003 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Honduras 
Project ID: P064914 
Project Name: Forests and Rural Productivity 
Task Team Leader: James W. Smyle 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 6, 2003 
Credit amount ($m.): 20.0 
Estimated Board Date: November 27, 2003 
 
Managing Unit: LCSER 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (100%) 
Theme: Land management (P); Other 
environment and natural resources 
management (P); Rural policies and 
institutions (P); Municipal governance and 
institution building (S); Natural disaster 
management (S) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:  Juan Martinez (Social), Douglas Graham 
(Environment) 
Other financing amounts by source: GEF 
\01
 $6.0m (partially-blended); GOH 
\01
 $4.5m 
 
 
B.  Project Objective
 
 
The objective of the project is to increase the contribution of sustainable natural resources 
management to the incomes and quality of life of the predominately rural poor in selected low 
income municipalities with high agro-forestry potential.  In order to achieve this objective the project 
would: (i) promote integrated and sustainable management of natural resources at the farm, 
community and municipality levels; (ii) expand community participation in efforts to achieve 
efficient and sustainable management and conservation of national, municipal and communal forest 
areas; (iii) support strategic policy and institutional reforms in the forest subsector; and (iv) assist to 
decentralize the management of natural resources by strengthening the capacity of local governments 
and communities in natural resource management and vulnerability reduction to natural disasters. 
 
 
C.  Project Description
 
 
The approach favored by the proposed operation is to build on the successes and lessons learned 
under the Natural Resources Component of the current Bank-financed PAAR.  Two other project 
design options were also considered:  A single project (“PAAR Phase 2”), maintaining as one 
Page  2
 
 
program the natural resources and land administration activities and the second, a long-term forestry 
program, possibly using an Adaptable Program Loan.  The first option was rejected for several 
reasons, chief among them the difficulty of efficiently institutionalizing and sustaining the type of 
complex, multi-sectoral/multi-institutional project that would have resulted.  A separate project, also 
prioritized in the recent CAS, is being developed as a follow-on to the Land Administration 
Component of the Rural Land Management Project.   The new Land Administration and the 
proposed project would be operated as separate but parallel and supportive projects.  The second 
option was rejected because, while there is GOH and donor support for development of a long-term 
forest program, at this time there is a need to consolidate the project-level experiences of PAAR and 
other projects.  Also at GOH request IDB will gradually assume donor leadership in the forestry 
subsector during the next five years.  As these programs further developed, it is anticipated that the 
policy and institutional framework for supporting a long-term program will evolve.   
 
The proposed project would capitalize upon, improve and scale-up the approaches piloted under the 
PAAR.  It would more broadly apply these approaches in support of management of the country’s 
high value pine forests and their associated lands and watersheds.  It would institutionalize effective 
and efficient mechanisms for private service provision to rural poor in forests and marginal areas and 
also for outsourcing public forest management activities to private service providers and 
communities.  It would enhance protected areas management and work with and through 
municipalities and communities for improving livelihoods and natural resources management.   
Specific improvements over the existing PAAR would be sought, such as extending coverage to 
municipal and communal forests, enhancing the degree to which investments are demand-driven, 
greatly increasing support to municipal-level capacity building, supporting local processes that would 
assist to channel investment resources from other programs to communities (e.g., FHIS, 
PRONADERS); and strengthening of the policy and implementation framework for formalizing 
traditional rights of populations living in national forest land.  The latter would be done in 
conjunction with and under the leadership of the proposed Land Administration project.  
 
 
Proposed components and indicative costs (US$M) are: 
Component 
Indicative Costs 
% of Total 
1)  Community Agro-Forestry 
8.5 28 
2)  Forestry Management 
10 33 
3)  Local Government and Disaster Preparedness 
3.2 10 
4)  Project Coordination, Monit. & Eval 
2.8 9 
GEF – To be determined 
6 20 
Total Project Costs 
30.5 100% 
 
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
 
The project would cover a total of 36 municipalities in the Departments of Yoro, Olancho, Francisco 
Morazan and El Paraiso.  Tropical pine forest predominates, with areas of Mixed Pine-Oak Tropical 
Forests.  It is estimated that the project municipalities represent about 3.2 million hectares (25% of 
the country’s total land area), with a rural population of about 630,325 persons (10.4% of the 
country’s population.   The project’s main interventions would cover and generate direct benefits to 
about 75,000 persons residing in forest lands, of which about 22,000 are indigenous persons 
(Tolupanes/Xicapques and Pech).  Most of these beneficiaries (about 70%) are below the absolute 
level of poverty.  Within the project area are 13 Forest Management Units (and 10 priority protected 
areas with high biodiversity values.   
 
 
Page  3
 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity
 
 
There are no significant issues related to institutional capacity.  The proposed project is a follow-on 
to a successful, existing project;  it will further build upon the institutional capacity already 
developed.  In addition, the existing project has developed best practice approaches and capacity to 
implement them for environmental management in pine forests, community involvement in forest 
management, regularization of indigenous tenure, and gender mainstreaming in extension programs.  
Also the borrower has already carried out social and environmental analyses which have revealed no 
significant risks. 
 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[X] 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01) 
 
 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
 
Project will contribute to management and conservation of Protected Areas and 
upland tropical forests (Pine and Mixed Pine-Oak). 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
 
Project will provide extension services and training to small farmers. 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
 
 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
) 
 
About 22,000 indigenous persons (Tolupanes/Xicapques and Pech) will be 
benefited directly by the project.
 
[X] Forests 
(
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
 
Project will strengthen forest sector reform processes and will contribute to 
management and conservation of Protected Areas and upland tropical forests (Pine 
and Mixed Pine-Oak). 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
 
 
[ ] 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
) 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 
7.50) 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Assessment Category:
    
[ ] A   [
X
] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  4
 
 
If TBD, explain follow-up and calendar/steps for the determination of the category:    
 
Safeguard Policies Classification:
    
[ ] S
1
   [
X
] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
If TBD, explain follow-up and calendar/steps for the determination of the classification:    
 
 
III.  ACTIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION
 
[Guideline: Refer to sections 5 and 6 of the PCN] 
 
A.  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess safeguard issues and 
prepare to mitigate them?   
 
The project is building on 5 years of work, which has included strong environmental management 
and social elements.  Among the successes with environmental management have been: development 
and institutionalization of new guidelines for EA of forest management, development and validation 
of national criteria and indicators for sustainable management of pine forests, development of 
environmental guidelines for forest roads, and ongoing work on development of conservation 
easements.  Also, an environmental analysis of the proposed project has been drafted by the 
Borrower and reviewed by the project team.  The final draft for submission to the Bank is expected 
by 1 September 2003.  It will include an EMP. 
 
The Project preparation activities have given emphasis to assessing the social issues which may arise 
from the project. A social assessment has been completed.  No significant adverse impacts have been 
identified.  The Project design work has built on the successful experiences and lessons from the first 
phase project which, among others, has been recognized by the Bank as best practice for gender 
mainstreaming in public extension programs.  PAAR. The proposed Project is giving emphasis to 
enhancing the gender/women and ethnic participation in generating sustainable agro-forestry 
production, to further enhance their important roles in increasing household incomes and nutrition of 
the rural poor, and in NRM decision-making.  This broader social participation is expected to 
improve the sustained management of and access to natural resources.  
 
B.  How might consultation and disclosure requirements be addressed? 
 
Project preparation has already included extensive participation of beneficiaries, both through the 
existing, first phase project and during the course of project design. A beneficiary participation plan 
has been prepared which includes developing a typology of beneficiaries and communities, plans to 
actively involve women and indigenous peoples, a process for institutionalizing local participation in 
forest management plans and protected areas, an improved M&E system to help ensure the 
components meet their social and participatory objectives, and a fund to enable access to private 
technical service providers.   A further round of consultations will be made to consolidate and refine 
Project design and implementation arrangements.  Special attention is being given to ensure the 
project’s interventions benefit directly the rural poor.   
 
Page  5
 
 
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ON SAFEGUARDS AT PCN REVIEW 
 
The LCR Quality Assurance Team (QAT) concurred with the Category "B" and "S2" classification.  
It was agreed that the project EA will examine the environmental performance (including on-the-
ground impacts) of the preceding PAAR project and indicate the environmental lessons learned and 
any resulting changes in the design of the new project.  Also, the EA report (including the 
Environmental Management Plan) will indicate how the new project design would be consistent with 
the specific provisions of the Bank's Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Forests (OP 4.36), and Pest 
Management (OP 4.09) policies.  Also, the Task Team will discuss with Honduran officials 
(particularly in SOPTRAVI-UGA, the roads agency's environmental unit) the possibility of useful 
complementary activities that the proposed project might appropriately support within the Aguan 
Valley for conserving the habitat of the Honduran Emerald hummingbird and other threatened 
biodiversity in the Aguan Valley (Department of Yoro.
 
