Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No: AB193 
 
Project Name 
Forests and Rural Productivity 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P064914 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock 
Tel: (504) 232-8394 
Fax: (504) 232-5375 
http://www.sag.gob.hn/ 
 
Republic of Honduras 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 22, 2003 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 29, 2003 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 26, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The current GOH administration entered office at the beginning of 2002 having articulated its 
priorities and goals in a document entitled “
My Commitment To You
”.  This document identified six 
critical development areas where the new administration would focus its attention.  Soon thereafter, 
the new government affirmed its commitment and gave high priority to the recently completed 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
1
.  These two documents, which are highly compatible and 
complementary, are the basis for Government’s rural development policy.  
 
GOH’s objectives, policies and strategies are shared by the Bank and the recent CAS (25873 HO) 
details the Bank’s role in supporting these.  A partial listing of the objectives and strategies relevant 
to the rural sector and supported by the proposed operation are included below.  It is important to 
note that more than 70% of Honduras’ total land area is classified as public forest lands.  As such, the 
forest subsector is of strategic importance to achieving PRS goals.  The draft Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Credit (under preparation) is to address issues of reform of the forest subsector, specifically 
reform of the State Forest Agency, creation of a Protected Area’s Fund, and regularization of 
traditional land use rights.  The proposed investment operation would also support the 
implementation of reforms sought by the proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC). 
(i)  Accelerating Equitable and Sustainable Growth
 
\01
 strengthening private investment in 
activities with comparative advantages, such as forestry;  
(ii) Reducing Rural Poverty
 
\01
 improving access to productive assets for poor smallholders 
through markets, technology, and recognizing traditional usufruct rights on public lands;  
(iii) Sustainable Development In Priority Areas
 
\01
 broadening the Secretary of Agriculture and 
Livestock’s (SAG) rural development program (PRONADERS) and its supporting services 
                                                          
 
1
 The Poverty Reduction Strategy, on which the CAS is based,  has six pillars: (i) accelerating equitable and 
sustainable growth; (ii) reducing rural and (iii) urban poverty; (iv) enhancing investment in human capital; (v) 
strengthening social protection for vulnerable groups; and (vi) ensuring sustainability through 
governance/institutional reforms and enhanced environmental sustainability. 
Page  2
 
 
for food security (basic grains), rural income diversification through small forestry schemes, 
micro-irrigation, and provision of privatized technical services and;  
(iv) Guaranteeing Sustainability
 
\01
 improving governance and transparency through 
decentralization of responsibilities and support to local government and communities for  
natural resource management, development planning and monitoring, participation of civil 
society and indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities, sustainable land management and 
natural disaster mitigation, and assistance to reform the public forest institution. 
 
The proposed operation builds on successful experiences of the Rural Land Management Project 
(P07398), as well as other relevant Honduras natural resource management (NRM) projects.  Some 
of the valuable lessons learned and incorporated in project design include: 
(i)  Participation of local stakeholders (municipalities and civil society groups) is a sound means 
to help sustain forest management practices and activities; strengthening of local stakeholder 
capacity, with municipal support, will contribute to integrated sustainable NRM; 
(ii) Ensure simple and transparent mechanisms for allocation and management of NRM 
resources, especially to benefit the rural poor; appropriate community and municipality 
contracts are effective for implementing community/municipality-based activities; 
(iii) Agricultural and agro-forestry extension should be carried out in phases to build capacity of 
smallholders; using private service providers in extension enhances efficiency of technology 
transfer and adoption;  
(iv) A primary obstacle to sustainable management of public forests is the land tenure situation, 
this can be overcome by provision of usufruct rights and benefit-sharing; forest management 
is viable in well defined areas and when managed/co-managed by communities/ stakeholders; 
best options for sustainable forest management are financially and economically viable; in 
indigenous communities, communal forest management enhances success. 
(v) Training and extension are highly effective at stimulating adoption of conservation 
technologies among small basic grain farmers and thus in improving welfare and managing 
lands most vulnerable to environmental degradation. Security of tenure/usufruct is positively 
associated with the use of conservation practices.
2
 
 
SAG and the Secretary of Finance have formally advised the Bank of the high priority they place on 
a second phase to the current Bank-financed Rural Land Management Project (known as the 
“PAAR” in Honduras).  Specifically, GOH wishes to capitalize on the successful models developed 
by the PAAR in support of the PRS.  They would do so by extending and deepening their application 
outside of public forest lands (to municipal, communal and private forests), by building upon the 
models to strengthen forest sector reform processes, and by supporting the decentralized management 
of natural resources.  As proposed by SAG, the operation would be an integral part of a national 
program and would provide geographic coverage to high priority areas not currently covered by other 
programs or projects.  Thematically it would compliment existing and planned assistance from other 
development agencies (bi- and multi-lateral) in strengthening SAG’s rural development and natural 
resources, forestry, and  protected areas programs.  
 
                                                          
 
2
 From Jansen, H.G.P. 
et al. 
2003.
 Policies For Sustainable Development In The Hillsides Of Honduras: A 
Quantitative Livelihoods Approach.
 In draft. 
Page  3
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The objective of the project is to increase the contribution of sustainable natural resources 
management to the incomes and quality of life of the predominately rural poor in selected low 
income municipalities with high agro-forestry potential.  In order to achieve this objective the project 
would: (i) promote integrated and sustainable management of natural resources at the farm, 
community and municipality levels; (ii) expand community participation in efforts to achieve 
efficient and sustainable management and conservation of national, municipal and communal forest 
areas; (iii) support strategic policy and institutional reforms in the forest subsector; and (iv) assist to 
decentralize the management of natural resources by strengthening the capacity of local governments 
and communities in natural resource management and vulnerability reduction to natural disasters. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The approach favored by the proposed operation is to build on the successes and lessons learned 
under the Natural Resources Component of the current Bank-financed PAAR.  Two other project 
design options were also considered:  A single project (“PAAR Phase 2”), maintaining as one 
program the natural resources and land administration activities and the second, a long-term forestry 
program, possibly using an Adaptable Program Loan.  The first option was rejected for several 
reasons, chief among them the difficulty of efficiently institutionalizing and sustaining the type of 
complex, multi-sectoral/multi-institutional project that would have resulted.  A separate project, also 
prioritized in the recent CAS, is being developed as a follow-on to the Land Administration 
Component of the Rural Land Management Project.   The new Land Administration and the 
proposed project would be operated as separate but parallel and supportive projects.  The second 
option was rejected because, while there is GOH and donor support for development of a long-term 
forest program, at this time there is a need to consolidate the project-level experiences of PAAR and 
other projects.  Also at GOH request IDB will gradually assume donor leadership in the forestry 
subsector during the next five years.  As these programs further developed, it is anticipated that the 
policy and institutional framework for supporting a long-term program will evolve.   
 
The proposed project would capitalize upon, improve and scale-up the approaches piloted under the 
PAAR.  It would more broadly apply these approaches in support of management of the country’s 
high value pine forests and their associated lands and watersheds.  It would institutionalize effective 
and efficient mechanisms for private service provision to rural poor in forests and marginal areas and 
also for outsourcing public forest management activities to private service providers and 
communities.  It would enhance protected areas management and work with and through 
municipalities and communities for improving livelihoods and natural resources management.   
Specific improvements over the existing PAAR would be sought, such as extending coverage to 
municipal and communal forests, enhancing the degree to which investments are demand-driven, 
greatly increasing support to municipal-level capacity building, supporting local processes that would 
assist to channel investment resources from other programs to communities (e.g., FHIS, 
PRONADERS); and strengthening of the policy and implementation framework for formalizing 
traditional rights of populations living in national forest land.  The latter would be done in 
conjunction with and under the leadership of the proposed Land Administration project.  
Geographical coverage would also be expanded to cover a total of 36 municipalities in four strategic 
Departments (i.e., Yoro, Olancho, Francisco Morazan and El Paraiso).  It is estimated that the project 
municipalities represent about 3.2 million hectares (25% of the country’s total land area), with a rural 
population of about 630,325 persons (10.4% of the country’s population.   The project’s main 
interventions would cover and generate direct benefits to about 75,000 persons residing in forest 
lands, of which about 22,000 are indigenous persons (Tolupanes/Xicapques and Pech).  Most of these 
beneficiaries (about 70%) are below the absolute level of poverty,  consistent with the CAS’s 
strategic focus on expanding access of the poor to productive assets.  Within the project area are 13 
Forest Management Units and 10 priority protected areas with high biodiversity values.   
 
Page  4
 
 
Proposed components are: 1)  Community Agro-Forestry, 2)  Forestry Management, 3)  Local 
Government and Disaster Preparedness, and 4)  Project Coordination, M&E 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
The project will trigger the following safeguard policies for which specific provisions are being made 
prior to appraisal to ensure compliance:  Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Forestry, Pest 
Management, and Indigenous Peoples.  As the project is a follow on to an existing project, the 
potential risks are fairly well understood.  In addition, the existing project has developed best practice 
approaches for environmental management in pine forests, community involvement in forest 
management, regularization of indigenous tenure, and gender mainstreaming in extension programs.  
Also the borrower has already carried out social and environmental analyses that have revealed no 
significant risks.  
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 4.5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
20.0 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FUND (partially-blended) 
6.0 
 
Total 30.5 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: James W. Smyle 
Title: Sr. Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: 202-473-7382 
Fax:  
Email: jsmyle@worldbank.org 
Location: San Antonio, TX (IBRD)
 
