Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-24 17-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LCAI
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II IRRIGATION
November 28, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00           =      Pesos (P) 7.40
P 1.00           =      US$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                 =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =        0.386 square miles
1 meter (m)                    =      39.37 inches
I square meter (sq m)          =      10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)           =      35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM) =        810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)              =      0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                =      2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                =      50 kg
20 cavans                               1 metric ton
1 megawatt (MW)                =      1,000 (kW) Kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
ADCC      -     Agricultural Development Coordinating Council
IFAD     -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
MARIS    -      Magat River Irrigation System
MCM       -     Million cubic meters of water
MRMP      -     Magat River Multipurpose Project
NIA       -     National Irrigation Administration
SIFRIS   -      Siffu River Irrigation System
SPO      -      Special Projects Organization
WMT       -     Water Management Technician
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



PHILIPPINES             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II IRRIGATION
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:    National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
Amount:          $21 million equivalent
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace with interest at 7.35% p.a.
Project
Description:  The- project consists of:
(a)  construction of the Baligatan diversion dam;
(b)  construction of irrigation and drainage facilities and
roads on a total area of about 26,770 ha of currently
rainfed land;
(c)  construction of three pumping stations to serve lands at
higher elevations covering 8,000 ha of the project area;
(d)  supply and installation of pumps, motors, auxiliary
equipment and pipelines;
(e)  provision of consulting services to assist NIA in design-
ing the pumping stations, and procurement, installation
and testing of pumping equipment; and
(f)  procurement of vehicles and equipment for project imple-
mentation and operation and maintenance.
About 8,000 farm families and 4,400 landless laborers' families,
most of whom are below the poverty line, would benefit directly
from increased production and consequent employment. The
project would create a demand for an additional two million
man-days of farm labor per year equivalent to some 8,400 full-
time jobs. At full agricultural development the project would
result in increased rice production with an export value of
about $25 million per year at forecast world market prices.
The economic rate of return is sensitive to the possibility
of farmers achieving less than expected yields. However,
since farmers in Stage 1A are already obtaining the projected
yields and there is an effective Agricultural Development
Coordination Committee in the Magat area which coordinates
government agencies providing agricultural supporting ser-
vices, the likelihood of a shortfall in expected yield levels
is small.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total F.E.
--- ($ million) ----  (%)
Baligatan diversion dam           1.1    1.0       2.1    48
Irrigation, drainage & roads   21.0   15.4    36.4    42
Supply & installation of
pumping equipment               0.3    2.5       2.8    89
O&M equipment                     0.1    1.7       1.8    95
Consulting services               0.1    0.1       0.2    75
Engineering, supervision
& administration                4.5       -      4.5     -
Base cost estimate               27.1   20.7    47.8    44
Physical contingencies            3.5    2.5       6.0    42
Expected price increases          4.4    3.8       8.2    43
Total project cost          35.0   27.0    62.0    43
Financing Plan:
Bank       IFAD      Government        Total
--------------- ($ million) ------…-----
21.0       10.0          31.0          62.0
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:             Bank FY        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual          2.2    5.3    6.7    5.2    1.6
Cumulative      2.2    7.5   14.2   19.4   21.0
Rate of Return:    The economic rate of return of the project is 13%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2150-PHa dated November 17, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHIILIPPINES FOR THE MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE
PROJECT: STAGE II IRRIGATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $21 million for the
Magat River Multipurpose Project: Stage II Irrigation. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.35%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
SecM-PHL77-2 dated October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, with more effective economic
management the rate of growth could have been higher. The benefits of growth
were also distributed re:Latively unevenly, both with respect to regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor force. Low
levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for necessary
infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance combined with
heavy import dependence of domestic industry led to chronic weakness in. the
balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated to an average annual
rate of 6.5% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant. In
the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly.
Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher prices for
traditional export commodities stimulated demand. The export-led income boom
of 1973 was followed by an investment boom, which, together with favorable
sugar prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the world recession,
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
National Extension Project (Sec M1R78-237), which was approved by the
Executive Directors on November 7, 1978.



- 2 -
and real GNP growth was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the
1970s also saw favorable structural changes in the economy, the most important
of which were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in
large part by a greater tax effort, an acceleration of export growth, the
achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, a shift of the domestic terms
of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population growth
rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier declines
in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external situation
dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a result,
the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP. To maintain the momentum of
growth and investment, the Government adopted a policy of increasing capital
inflows in the near term to finance the expanded current account deficits
while accelerating export growth in the longer term. In 1976-78, the economy -
led by non-traditional exports, agriculture and construction - has continued
to grow at 6% per year. Unfortunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion
in export volume was offset by further deterioration in the terms of trade.
Total fixed capital formation increased only marginally due to sluggish
private investment activity and the conservative monetary-fiscal policy
adopted by the government.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output and exports
are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade
stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so,
and efforts need to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        During the early 1970s agricultural production grew at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year. In the grains subsector, the government's policy
has been to end rice imports through irrigation development and the improvement
of supporting services. During the past three years, the Philippines has been
self-sufficient in foodgrains and actually has exported over 100,000 tons of
rice. The overall performance of the agricultural sector was exceptionally
strong in 1976 as production increased by 8%. In 1977 and 1978, rice and
corn production continued to grow at a satisfactory rate; however, the major
traditional export crops, particularly sugar, experienced a slowing down of
production because of low world prices. Overall, the output of the sector
increased at a rate of 5% in 1977-78.



- 3 -
8.        Despite the recent successes in foodgrain production, which are
partly attributable to good weather, rice and corn yields remain well below
the potentials of modern farming technologies. This is largely due to land
tenure patterns, weak extension services and insufficient production credit.
The Government, however, gives high priority to agriculture and rural develop-
ment. It has undertaken aR number of steps to increase the availability of
irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to improve
living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification, health and
family planning, and rural roads.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The implementation of the land transfer program,
which started in October 1972, was expected to be completed within five years.
But, after an initial rapid start, progress slowed down considerably due to:
poor land surveys and records causing long delays in title documentation;
prolonged disputes over land valuation; inadequate resources within the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform; and opposition by the landlords. Progress has
improved, however, since rmid-1977. As of March 1978, while only about 10% of
the tenants under the program had completed all land transfer formalities,
over 60% of them had receiLved Certificates of Land Transfer, signifying the
first step in the transfer process and establishing their claim to the land.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which ithen depreciated significantly, and started correcting
tariff distortions by simujltaneously reducing the number of items subject to
the highest protective rates and also limiting the granting of tariff exemptions.
Further efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution
and capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate
of industrial growth as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
11.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
three years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased more than fivefold
in the five-year period 1973-77, in response to exchange rate adjustment and
special measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and
thus reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted
above, further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports
are to continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry which
expanded rapidly between 1972-1976 as a result of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investments in the Manila area,
grew at a rate of only 6% during 1977-78 due to the slower pace of private
and public investment activity.



- 4-
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975/77, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance,
positive. Due to the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth
of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption increased by about
2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of
the poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes
have remained about the same. Household budget data, which are probably not
entirely accurate, indicate that the share of family incomes received by the
poorest 40% of families, who are primarily rural, increased from 12% in 1971
to 15% in 1975. The income share of the top 20% have remained about the
same, while that of the middle income families declined correspondingly.
Although the magnitude of these trends may be overstated by these data, the
general direction of the trends is consistent with other information.
14.       The population is estimated at 45.5 million in 1978.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 20% in 1974 to 27% in 1977. However, by East Asian standards, this
index should still be considered as relatively low.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6.3% of GNP in 1978. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP, and its revival has been an important short-term problem. Furthermore,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.



16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to thalt of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development.  In 1977-78, gross domestic savings reached a level of 26%
of GNP and financed about 85% of total investment, with the balance coming
from foreign savings.  In order to increase the efficiency of financial
markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Government has
made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized banking institu-
tions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in 1976 and,
again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and
savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and to reduce
the spread between borrowing and lending rates. However, further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources and to alleviate the bias of the present interest rate structure
towards investments with a relatively high capital intensity and a low capital
efficiency. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs. Th,e Government has already taken a number of steps
to improve collections; however, further efforts in this direction are
necessary to improve finiancial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of
credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public finances.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries.  In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures
and the shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978
government expenditures had reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public
investment, which has risen rapidly in the last three years, equaled about
6% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to
improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance, but much of the
success in mobilizing revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a
sharp decline in the yield of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical



- 6 -
fluctuations. Total tax revenues, which had been raised to 13.6% by 1975,
fell to 12.8% in 1977 and increased only slightly, to an estimated 13%, in
1978. Greater resource mobilization by government financial institutions and
government corporations, whose investment programs have grown rapidly, is
also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and
expanded its borrowing program to finanice necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both to
hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade, the
current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last three years
- averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in 1976 to an
estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978 by the
depressed sugar market, increased substantially over the three year period
as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977,
accelerated with the recovery of private investments in 1978.  To finance the
current account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the
1975 level of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78.
Most of the inflow came from medium and long-term loans. About two thirds of
this was from public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements
from official sources. Recently, the Government has also taken advantage of
liquid conditions in international capital markets to prepay some commercial
debts and obtain new loans with longer maturities and lower interest rates.
As a result of increased borrowing, the debt service ratio has risen from 16%
in 1975 to 18% in 1977.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period, import volume will have to grow at a
similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will
be required. Assuming continued efforts to promote exports and sound debt
management, the overall level of external debt of the Philippines is expected
to remain within reasonable limits.  The ratio of debt service payments to
exports of goods and nonfactor services is expected to average around 20%, of
which half would be public debt service, during the Plan period (1978-82) and
to decline thereafter.
22.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million in 1978 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Tokyo in
December of 1977. This amount has been made available. However, since many
of the projects planned for financing from external sources have low foreign
exchange component, some local cost financing is necessary, in appropriate
cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing requirements.



- 7 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of September 30, 1978, the Philippines had received 56 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,725.4 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 12% and 5%, respectively, by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1978, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors.  Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines' population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural healthL units and for training of family planning staff.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weaLk administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reaLsonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate thaLt the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, in the last year there
were a number of cases where progress of projects suffered from procedural
problems which caused delays in the release of necessary budgetary resources.
Overall disbursements also appear to be somewhat behind the progress of
physical implementation which suggests that there may have been delays in
submission of withdrawal applications by line agencies. However, the Govern-
ment has taken steps to improve budgetary procedures both in the Ministry of
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report (No. P-2399-Pli) for the National Extension Project (Sec. M/R78-237),
which was approved by the Executive Directors on November 7, 1978.



- 8 -
the Budget and in implementing agencies and to expedite submission of with-
drawal applications. The Government has also established a system to monitor
physical progress of projects as well as the rate of disbursements. The Bank
and the Government are continuing to discuss this question frequently to help
ensure that disbursement rates improve.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program
also provides for several needed new initiatives, including the recently
approved loan which would support the strengthening of the national
agricultural extension service and a first loan for developing multiple
cropping systems in rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural
poverty. Increased support will also be provided for integrated rural
development projects which will support the Government's objectives of
redressing regional imbalances in income. Substantial assistance will
also continue to be given to industry with considerable attention given
to expanding the development of labor-intensive, small and medium indus-
tries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area. The share of lending for
social sector projects is expected to continue to increase primarily as a
result of greater emphasis on construction of urban water supply and
sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading and low-cost
sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to provide
support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group
will also provide support for transportation and power infrastructure
needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank
lending for this will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily
because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large
part of the power generation program.
27.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to continue to
obtain some foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to
support its expanding development program. In view of this consideration,
the per capita income of the country and the generally good management of the
economy, a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank
Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
28.       This is the third loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for urban development, smallholder credit, popula-
tion, small and medium-scale industries and highway projects are expected to
be ready for presentation in the next several months.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
29.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one third of net domestic product, over one half of
total employment, and nearly three quarters of export earnings.  Over 70% of
the 9 million ha of land under cultivation is used for the production of
cereals, of which rice and corn are the most important. The remaining land
is taken up by the major export crops: sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapples,
and tobacco.
30.       The performance of the agricultural sector will be crucial in
determining whether the Philippines can increase incomes both rapidly and
equitably. At present, the domestic market for industrial products is
limited by relatively low rural incomes. Although in recent years there has
been a substantial change in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture, the
problems of poverty and income distribution continue to be particularly acute
in rural areas; of the 15 million people in the lowest 40% of the income scale,
12 million live in rural areas. The Government is aware of these problems
and has initiated a number of programs designed to assist the rural poor.
31.       A major Government objective is to increase rice and corn produc-
tion as a means of raising the incomes of small farmers and of attaining
national self-sufficiency in foodgrains. After experiencing substantial
deficits in the early 1970s, rice production grew by 5% p.a. during crop
years 1974-77 and the Philippines was able to provide for consumption solely
from domestic production during the crop years 1975-77. In 1977, the Govern-
ment exported 90,000 tons and built up a stock of about three months' require-
ments. The major factors contributing to the recent sharp rise in production
appear to be the continued expansion of the irrigated area, the use of high
yielding varieties on both irrigated and rainfed land and, more significantly,
a run of particularly favorable weather. With the continued growth in
population and incomes, the demand for rice is expected to rise by about 3.0%
annually over the period 1978-90. Based on a projected annual growth of 3.7%
in production, under average weather conditions the Philippines is expected
to reach a balance between production and consumption no later than 1982 and
to be by 1985 in a position to export, on a sustained basis, between 100,000
and 125,000 tons annually. By 1990 the Philippines could export from 350,000
to 375,000 tons. Exports of this magnitude, about 3% of projected world rice
trade in 1990, could be accomodated in world trade without adversely affect-
ing prices. This would require an increase in the irrigated harvested area
of about 425,000 ha between 1977 and 1985 and an increase of about 200,000 ha
between 1985 and 1990. Bank Group-assisted projects for which financing has
been arranged or is contemplated would provide about 240,000 ha of irrigated
harvested area.
32.       The Government recognizes that, in order to increase production in
both irrigated and non-irrigated areas, further improvements in the quality
of supporting services will be necessary beyond those initiated in recent
years. In 1973, the Government instituted a national program for supervised
credit for rice production, Masagana 99, which greatly increased the provision
of production credit and technical assistance, mainly to smaller farmers.
However, the levels of arrears under the program have been very high in the



- 10 -
last several years and as a result the credit coverage of the program
has declined sharply. The Governmaent is aware of this problem and the
Technical Board for Agricultural Credit has undertaken a study of the causes
of the high arrears under Loan 1399-PH. This study is to be discussed
with Bank staff in early 1979 with a view to developing steps necessary to
reduce arrears and maintain an adequate flow of production credit. In the
meantime, efforts are continuing to enable farmers to make the most effective
use of the lower level of inputs they are able to afford using their own cash
and from non-institutional sources of credit.
33.       The Government is also considering steps necessary to bring about
needed improvements in the national extension service. A Bank technical
assistance mission visited the Philippines in April 1977 and a report was
given to the Government suggesting a number of organizational improvements
and better logistical support in the form of training, vehicles and other
facilities. The Bank is providing assistance to the recently initiated
national extension project. A sector mission also visited the Philippines in
February/March 1978 to help the Government prepare a comprehensive program
for strengthening support services (extension, fertilizer, seeds, and crop
protection).
34.       Since 1969 the Bank Group has financed ten irrigation projects
designed to increase rice production in the country. These projects - three
in Central Luzon, three in the Cagayan valley of Northern Luzon, one on Mindoro
Island, one in the Visayas and two for smaller systems throughout Northern
Luzon, the Visayas and Mindanao /1 - have set the pattern for the type of
irrigation rehabilitation, new construction, and operations needed for
increasing rice production. The projects are providing improved irrigation
and drainage facilities, better road systems for efficiency of operations and
maintenance and for the marketing of farm products, stronger supporting
services to assist farmers in adopting the new irrigation techniques needed
to increase production, and technical assistance and training to help the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA) expand and improve its irrigation
program. These projects would bring about substantial increases in rice
production on about 370,000 ha and would benefit nearly 190,000 farmer
families, most of whom are smallholders.
35.       Work on the first Bank-assisted project, the Upper Pampanga River
Project (Loan 637-PH), is completed. Agricultural benefits in the area
served by the project are in line with appraisal estimates. Progress on all
the other irrigation projects has been generally satisfactory and the NIA has
/1 The Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-
Penaranda Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH, Credit 472-PH), Tarlac Irri-
gation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH), Mindoro Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1102-PH), Magat River Multipurpose Project Stage I
(Loan 1154-PH), Chico River Irrigation Project Stage I (Loan 1227-PH),
Jalaur Irrigation Project (Loan 1367-PH), National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project I (Loan 1414-PH), National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project II (Loan 1526-PH) and Magat River Multipurpose
Project Stage II (Loan 1567-PH).



- 11 -
proved itself to be a well managed and technically competent organization.
The total cost of the first two projects was about 70% over appraisal esti-
mates in the case of the Pampanga project (Loan 637-PH) and 55% in the case
of the Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH and Credit 472-PH)
largely as a result of rapid inflation following the oil price increase in
1973. However, as a result of considerable increases in the projected world
market price of rice and earlier-than-anticipated irrigation benefits the
rates of return on both projects are not likely to change significantly.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       In 1973 the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), with US
Bureau of Reclamation assistance, completed a feasibility study of the Magat
River project and recommended the development of a multipurpose project on
the river. Because of the physical size, large estimated cost and long con-
struction period, NIA divided implementation of the project into two stages.
Stage I consists of the rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing Magat
River Irrigation System (MARIS) and Siffu River Irrigation System (SIFRIS)
and construction of new facilities for a total of 75,000 ha that can be
served by run-of-river diversion in the wet season. The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) assisted NIA to rehabilitate 40,000 ha of Stage IA under the
Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project. The remaining
35,000 ha of Stage IB are being developed with Bank assistance under Loan
1154-PH. Provision was aZlso made under the loan for engineering studies
(Part A) to evaluate the economic feasibility of Stage II development and, if
justified, to prepare (Part B) final designs, specifications and bid docu-
ments for construction of the dam and appurtenant works. Part A of the study,
completed in September 1976, confirmed the technical feasibility and economic
viability of Stage II, which consists of construction of the storage dam and
additional irrigation facilities, to increase the service area to 102,000
ha, together with constrlction of a power station with an installed capacity
of 360 MW and the provision of generating and transmission equipment.
37.       NIA began an extensive program of pre-construction work on the
Magat dam in 1976, with Government funding. Considerable progress has been
made on such items as construction of access roads, permanent camp facilities
and dam foundation grout-ing, and work on drainage gallery tunneling has begun.
The diversion tunnels are being built by a Philippine contractor. The main
civil works contract for the Magat dam was awarded in June 1978, after inter-
national competitive bidding, to the same firm whose services were retained
under the provisions of Loan 1567-PH. Construction of the dam and appurte-
nant work is expected to be completed by the end of 1982. The power compo-
nent, consisting of the civil works together with the supply and installation
of penstocks, turbines, generators, electrical and mechanical equipment, is
expected to take four years to implement (1979-82).



- 12 -
38.       The proposed project was appraised in April 1978.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in October 1978 with a Philippine delegation led by
the Honorable Alfredo L. Juinio, the Minister of Public Works, Transport and
Telecommunications and the Administrator of NIA. A Staff Appraisal Report,
entitled "Philippines - Magat River Multipurpose Project: Stage II
Irrigation" (No. 2150-PHa, dated October   , 1978), is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
The Project Area
39.       The project is located in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon,
about 350 km northeast of Manila. The major part of the project area lies in
Isabela province and a small portion in Quirino province. There are several
small towns with populations between 5,000 and 10,000 scattered throughout
the area. The larger towns, including the provincial capital of Ilagan which
lies just outside the project area, provide banking, storage, processing
facilities, and input supplies to the surrounding agricultural area. The
project area is connected by a national highway to Central Luzon and Manila
in the south and to the port of Aparri in the north. The service area is
well provided with provincial and access roads. The network of local access
and service roads is being upgraded and expanded by NIA under Stage I of the
project while three provincial roads are being improved under the Chico River
Irrigation Project (Loan 1227-PH).
40.        The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  The
rainfall, together with river flows in the wet season, is generally adequate
for a single rice crop. Dry-season cropping, however, entails considerably
more risk, and irrigation is essential for a second crop. The soils of the
project area are well suited to rice which has been grown on them for many
years without problems.
41.        Since 1972 the Government has pursued a program of agrarian reform
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the new
program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed area.
According to PD 27, the landlord may retain up to 7 ha if he cultivates the
land himself.  Since there are some 2 million rice and corn farmers on about
4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated, there is little
prospect of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha irrigated family farms
nationwide. The Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR) completed the issue of
land transfer certificates to tenants for all lands in holdings over 24 ha in
1975. In November 1974, the Government decided to proceed with the transfer
of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha. In October 1976, the Government
extended the provision of PD 27 to holdings of less than 7 ha, belonging to
landowners with more than 7 ha of other agricultural land, or belonging to
landowners with residential, commercial or urban land from which they derive
adequate incomes to support themselves.
42.        Some 8,000 farm families, averaging six members per family, operate
farms in the project area. In addition about 4,400 landless laborer families
earn income from farm work in the project area. The average family unit is



- 13 -
3.4 ha, but there is an unusually high degree of variation from the mean.
Nearly one third of the farms are under 1.5 ha and cover 10% of the land,
while at the other end of the range some 8% of the farms are larger than 7.5
ha and occupy 31% of the area. Owner-operated farms at an average of 4.5 ha
are nearly twice as large as farms worked by tenant farmers which have a mean
size of 2.4 ha.
43.       Some 6,850 people own the 26,770 ha in the project area.  At
present about half the farmers own the land they are farming and account for
66% of the area; the rest are tenant farmers.  After completion of land
reform some 21,200 ha, or 79% of the project area, will be cultivated by
5,400 owner-operators, equivalent to 68% of the farmers. The remaining 2,500
farmers would operate under a written lease agreement.
Principal Project Features
44.       The proposed project, which would develop the Stage II irrigation
potential, would consist of:
(a) construction of the Baligatan diversion dam;
(b)  construction of irrigation and drainage facilities and roads
on a total area of about 26,770 ha of currently rainfed land;
(c) construction of pumping stations to serve lands at higher eleva-
tions covering 8,000 ha of the project area;
(d) supply and installation of pumps, motors, auxiliary equipment and
pipelines;
(e) provision of consulting services to assist NIA in designing the
pumping stations, and procurement, installation and testing of
pumping equipment; and
(f) procurement of vehicles and equipment for project implementation
and operation and maintenance.
45.       Baligatan Diversion Works.  The diversion dam, located on Baligatan
creek about 3.5 km downstream of the l4agat reservoir, would be a 272 m long
earth and rockfill embankment with a central concrete overflow section 20 m
long and 14 m high. On the right abutment there would be a sluice way with
one 7 m wide and 5.3 m high radial gate and an intake structure for diverting
a flow of about 26.6 cu m/sec into the South High canal. An intake on the
left bank would divert a flow of 3.5 cu m/sec to the Oscariz canal.
46.       Irrigation and Drainage Works.  The main irrigation networks within
the four service areas would consist of about 150 km of main canals and
about 290 km of laterals. Canals and laterals would be unlined except for
short lengths where the soils are erosive. About 8,000 ha of high ground
would be irrigated by pumping stations sited on canals. Sub-transmission
lines and transformers would be provided under the project. Gravel surfaced
O&M roads would be constructed on the canal banks. Access roads 5 m wide



- 14 -
would also be provided as links between the existing major roads of the area
and the canal 0&M roads, and would also serve as farm-to-market roads.
Gravel surfacing would be provided on some of the major existing farm-to-market
roads. The design of on-farm distribution and drainage works would be similar
to what is being implemented under Stage I (Loan 1154-PH). Rice has been
grown in the project area for many years and tne land is reasonably level and
well laid out with little fragmentation of land holdings; therefore no land
leveling or boundary realignment would be provided.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at $62.0 million, of which
$27.0 million or 43% is foreign exchange. The cost of civil works includes
about 6% taxes. Prices for imported equipment, materials and supplies
include a provision of about 5% for duties. Costs include a physical
contingency factor of 15% for civil works and 10% for pumping equipment and
materials. Expected price increases over the implementaton period amount to
about 15% of the base cost plus physical contingencies.  The following
annual inflation rates were assumed: civil works 7.5% in 1979 and 7% in
1980-82; equipment and services 6.5% in 1979 and 6% in 1980-82.  The proposed
Bank loan of $21.0 million and the IFAD loan of $10.0 million would finance
the full foreign exchange costs and about 11% of the local costs of the
project. The proposed IFAD loan would be administered by the Bank acting as
a cooperating institution under terms of the Cooperative Agreement between
IFAD and the Bank, dated May 20, 1978 [Section 5.01(a) of the draft Joint
Project Agreement]. The Government would provide the remaining $31.0 mil-
lion to NIA through annual budget appropriations.
Procurement
48.       Pumping station equipment, and equipment for project implementation
and O&M, costing about $6.7 million, would be procured after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each would be procured
through normal government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank; the
total cost for such items would not exceed $200,000.
49.       Construction of the Baligatan diversion dam, together with intake
structures, main canal with major laterals and service roads of the South
High Canal area, ($8.0 million) would be let as one contracts and awarded
following international competitive bidding ln accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. The remaining civil works in the project service area ($36.0 mil-
lion) would be scattered over four separate locations and, due to the nature
of the work, split into about 20 contracts and would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. In the past, NIA has experienced con-
siderable difficulty in attracting bids for such works. Over the last four
years several steps have been taken on Bank-assisted projects to strengthen
local contractors including financing of reconditioned equipment and provid-
ing mobilization allowances. As a result of this, there has been an encour-
aging response on recent tenders. However, it is doubtful that all civil



- 15 -
works could be done by contract and some of them would therefore be carried
out on force account. In previous Bank-assisted irrigation projects outside
of Central Luzon, the amouLnt of civil works done by force account was set at
40% of total cost, as this was found to provide the optimum combination of
force account and contract work. An assurance was obtained that the amount
of civil works carried out by force account would not exceed 40% of the total
cost of civil works excluding those subject to international competitive
bidding (para. C.2 of Schedule 3 of the Joint Project Agreement). The
balance of civil works would be carried out on the basis of competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures which have been reviewed by Bank
staff and found to be acceptable. There is adequate competition and foreign
firms would be eligible to participate.
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements from the Bank loan and the IFAD loan, apportioned in
the ratio of 21:10 against: each withdrawal application would be made at the
rate of 100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment,
100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for
equipment procured locally. Disbursement for civil works would be made for
45% of certified monthly progress payments on expenditures which exclude
mobilization and equipment costs. Disbursements for force account works
would be made against ceritificates of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitited to the Bank for review, but would be retained
by the Borrower and made available for inspection by the Bank's review
missions. For civil works contractors' mobilization and equipment, disburse-
ment would be at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures. Disbursements for
consulting services would be at the rate of 100% of total costs. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1983, approxi-
mately one year after the end of construction.
Project Execution
51.       The project would be implemented by NIA which was created in 1964
and given responsibility for developing, operating and maintaining all
national irrigation systems in the Philippines. The governing body of the
NIA is the Board of Directors, composed of a Chairman and five members, who
are all ex-officio except for one member appointed by the President of the
Philippines on the recommendation of rice and corn growers. Management of
the NIA is vested in an Administrator appointed by the President. Major
foreign-assisted projects have been placed under a Special Projects Organi-
zation (SPO) headed by an Assistant Administrator. The SPO is currently
responsible for twelve major projects and has built up a staff which, with
specialist consultant input where necessary, is competent to implement
large-scale projects and manage the operations and maintenance of irriga-
tion works.
52.       Responsibility for implementation of Stage I of the Magat River
Multipurpose Project (MRMP)(Loan 1154-PH) was given to the SPO. A Project
Manager was appointed with an Assistant Project Manager directly in charge of



- 16 -
three construction divisions, dealing respectively with the ADB-assisted
rehabilitation of MARIS and the Bank-assisted MARIS extension and SIFRIS
rehabilitation and expansion. The MRMP Project Manager subsequently assumed
overall responsibility for the construction of the adjoining Chico River
Irrigation Project (Loan 1227-PH) and for the Cagayan Integrated Area
Development project, with day-to-day responsibility for MRMP in the hands of
an Assistant Project Manager. Since completion of the ADB-assisted work at
the end of 1977, responsibilities among the three construction divisions have
been reallocated and all are now working on the Bank-assisted portion of
Stage I. Responsibilities for construction of Stage II would be split up
among these three existing divisions.
53.       Over the last ten years, in the course of implementing a substan-
tial irrigation development program, NIA has acquired a considerable amount
of expertise in the planning, design and construction of large irrigation
projects. However, all these projects have consisted of gravity irrigation
systems and NIA has little experience in the planning and design of large
pumping stations. The project would provide for consulting services to
assist NIA in planning and design of the three pumping stations, the prepa-
ration of specifications for the procurement of the equipment, the evalua-
tion of bids, and the supervision of the installation and testing of the
equipment. It is estimated that about 20 man-months of consulting services
would be required at an overall cost of $10,000 per man-month consisting of
a billing rate (including home-office overhead) of $8,000 per man-month,
international travel expenses of $500 per man-month, and local expenses of
$1,500 per man-month.
54.       For operation and maintenance purposes there would be no distinc-
tion between Stages I and II and the entire project area of about 102,000 ha
would be administered by a single Project Manager. There would be four
support divisions, dealing with administration, equipment, agricultural
development, and operation of the Magat and MARIS dams. The project area
would be divided into three Irrigation Districts and each district would be
divided into 50 ha irrigation units. A ditchtender would supervise two such
units (100 ha), while a Water Management Technician (WMT) would control five
ditchtenders (500 ha). A supervisor would be responsible for a water manage-
ment division which includes five WMTs (2,500 ha).
Input-Output Monitoring
55.       A program of input-output monitoring was established under the Chico
Irrigation Project (Loan 1227-PH) with the objectives of (a) monitoring the
flow and build-up of farm inputs in each project area before and during each
crop season to give NIA sufficient warning of any shortfall and allow it to
take appropriate action; and (b) monitoring the amount and distribution of
benefits in each project area. The program, which has been in operation in
the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation System service area for about two years
with useful results, would apply to the project area. Consultants assisting
in setting up the monitoring program were financed under Loan 1227-PH and no
additional funding is required.



- 17 -
Environmental Effects
56.       The development of irrigation and drainage under this project is
not expected to have any significant effect on the environment. There is no
schistosomiasis in the project area or in Northern Luzon generally. Malaria
is effectively controlled by a Government program of house spraying with
residual insecticides. The few cases reported are brought into the project
area from the sparsely populated, mountainous forest regions bordering the
Cagayan Valley. The principal public health problems in the area are protein
deficiencies in pre-school children, enteric diseases and tuberculosis.  The
proposed project would have little direct impact on these.
Farm Incomes
57.       The present per capita incomes for 2.5 ha farms range from $65
for an amortizing owner of a rainfed farm to $155 for an owner-operator
of an irrigated farm. These incomes are below the estimated per capita
absolute poverty level of $200 (end-1978 prices) and vary from 12% to 30%
of the estimated 1978 per capita GNP of $525 for the Philippines. With
the project, the per capiLta incomes of these farms would range from about
$210 for a leaseholder to $330 for an owner-operator. Thus, incomes of
these farms would rise above the 1978 absolute poverty income level, and
range from 27% to 43% of the 1987 projected per capita GNP of about $770.
58.       For 3.5 ha farms, the average farm size in the project area, the
present per capita incomes range from $70 for an amortizing owner of a
rainfed farm to $195 for an owner-operator of an irrigated farm. These
incomes are below the per capita absolute poverty level and vary from 13% to
37% of the estimated 1978 per capita GNP. With the project, the per capita
incomes would range from about $265 for a leaseholder to about $440 for
an owner-operator. Incomes of these farmers would, therefore, rise above the
1978 absolute povery income level and range between 34% and 57% of the 1987
projected per capita GNP.
59.       For 13.0 ha farms, representing farms above 7.5 ha or 8% of the
farmers and 31% of the area, present per capita incomes range form $185 to
$535 (35% to 102% of 1978 per capita GNP). With the project, the per capita
incomes of these farms would increase to $1,375, about 78% above the estimated
1987 per capita GNP. While an example of a larger farm is given for illustra-
tive purposes and to conform to the existing farm size distribution, such
*          farms are not expected to account for a significant area by the time the
project reaches full development in 1987. The changeover from extensive rain-
fed cropping to highly intensive irrigated agriculture would put a substantial
strain on the larger farmers, in terms of managerial ability and access to
inputs, and would tend to accelerate the process of subdivision of the farms
among descendants, which is inevitable in view of the family sizes and
traditional inheritance practices. NIA would review land tenure patterns on
an annual basis as part of the water fee billing procedure and would also
monitor the size and distribution of project benefits as part of the regular
input-output monitoring.



- 18 -
60.        These comparisons indicate that the project would increase incomes
of over 3,600 small farmer families (with holdings less than 7.5 ha) as well
as 4,400 landless laborers' families in the project area and would help narrow
the income gap between the project area and other parts of the country, and
between urban and rural areas.
Cost and Rent Recovery
61.        NIA has the authority to collect fees from users of irrigation
systems to finance operations and to reimburse construction costs. Irrigation
charges on national systems other than those which are assisted by the Bank
are 2.0 cavans (100 kg) of paddy per hectare in the wet season and 3.0
cavans/ha (150 kg) in the dry season. On Bank-assisted projects, the charge
of 3.5 cavans (175 kg) of paddy per hectare in the wet season and 4.4 cavans
(220 kg) in the dry season is to be achieved gradually over five years from
completion of construction. Since the average farm size in the MRMP is
somewhat larger than in other Bank-assisted projects and the project would
provide a more reliable supply of water, the Government, under the provisions
of Loan i567-PH, has agreed to an increase of water charges of one cavan of
paddy per hectare in each season over the standard charges for Bank-assisted
projects. This increase would be implemented over five years after full
development. In accordance with existing NIA practice, farmers in the
pump-irrigated areas would pay for the electricity consumed by the pumps in
addition to these water charges.
62.        Assuming the rates set out in the proceeding paragraph, the rent
recovery index varies negligibly with the size of the farm, but does vary
considerably depending on whether farms are currently rainfed or irrigated,
or whether they are owner-operated or tenanted. The incremental rent recovery
index for the project beneficiaries ranges from 18% for an owner-operator on
a rainfed farm to 74% for the small number of leaseholders presently served
by a run-of-the-river communal irrigation system. The average incremental
rent recovery index of 24% is comparable to that in other Bank-assisted
irrigation projects in the Philippines.
63.        The cost recovery analysis has assumed that 12.5% of the dam
cost should be allocated to the project. Taking the present value of the
incremental water charges set out above, project costs, allocated dam costs,
and annual O&M costs, the cost recovery index is 14.0%. The index is lower
than those in other Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines primarily due
to high capital costs of the project. The cost recovery index for the MRMP
irrigation component, i.e. Stages I and II, is also 14.0%.
64.        NIA's total collection rate for the national systems was about 64%
in FY75, but fell to about 27% in FY76 after the increase in rates in July
1975. However, preliminary information indicates that the collection rate
has improved in FY77 and is expected to continue to rise as better services
are provided throughout the national systems. NIA is currently preparing a
plan of action to improve collections on all of its irrigation systems
for review by the Bank under the provisions of the loan for the Jalaur
project (Loan 1367-PH) which is expected to be completed by October 31, 1978.



- 19 -
While it may take several yesars to introduce fully the administrative and
other improvements necessary to improve collections, reasonable progress is
being made and performance can be expected to improve in the future.
Project Benefits and Justification
65.       The proposed project would increase yields and cropping intensities
on about 26,770 ha of land, of which 21,270 ha are curently rainfed, by
providing an assured year-round water supply, improved infrastructure and
better supporting services.  The incremental annual production due to the
project would be 152,000 tons of paddy. The project would be the final step
in a series of Bank and ADB-assisted projects aimed at developing the
irrigation potential of the Magat river valley. Approximately 8,000 farm
families and 4,400 landless laborers' families, a total of about 77,000
people, would benefit directly from increased production and consequent
employment. The project would create a demand for an additional two mil-
lion man-days of farm labor per year equivalent to some 8,900 full-time
jobs. About 92% of the project beneficiaries lie in the target group. The
project's cost per ha of $3,535, excluding costs due to expected price
increases but including a portion of the Magat dam costs, is considerably
higher than in previous Bank-assisted projects because of the high proportion
of new construction and the cost of reservoir storage, which amounts to
$1,525/ha. The project would meet the Government's objectives of increased
food production and development of the depressed Cagayan valley at a capital
cost per benefitted family of about $11,830, including the cost of storage,
and $6,725 net of storage cost. At full agricultural development the project
would result in an incremental rice production with an export value of about
$25 million per year at forecast world market prices. After deducting the
incremental cost of imported fertilizer, chemicals and fuel, the net export
value would amount to about $20.3 million.
66.       Discounting incremental dam and project costs and benefits over a
50-year evaluation period, the economic rate of return for the project is 13%.
At a discount rate of 10%, the economic net present value of this investment in
1978 is $124 million./1 T'he economic rate of return for the combined Stages
I and II is 13%. At a discount rate of 10%, the economic net present value of
the investment in the combined stages of the project is about $165 million.
67.       Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which variables would be
most crucial to the success of the project. These variables included full
development yields, world market price of rice, cropping intensity, construc-
tion costs, construction period, yield development period and the economic
wage rate. The success of the project is most sensitive to future yields of
paddy. Failure to reach the anticipated yield levels at full development
would pose the highest potential risk to the project. Since farmers in Stage IA
/1 If the investment in M4agat dam is treated as a sunk cost, the economic
rate of return of the project is 19%, giving an economic net present value
in 1978 of $58.3 million at a 10% discount rate. The rates of return
for the subproject areas range from 17% to 22%.



- 20 -
are already obtaining the projected yields and there is an effective
Agricultural Development Coordinating Committee in the Magat area, which
coordinates the work of Government agencies providing agricultural support-
ing services, the likelihood of a shortfall in expected yield levels is
small. No problems of implementation are anticipated as NIA has ample
experience of projects of similar scope.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Bank Loan Agreement between the Republic of the
Philippines and the Bank, the draft Joint Project Agreement between the
Republic of the Philippines, the Bank and IFAD, the draft Fund Loan Agreement
between the Republic of the Philippines and IFAD, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A special condition of the project is listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMIENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 28,1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
PaRe ' of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   PHILIPPINES                      - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             300.0                                                     SAME         SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       85.6                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   140.0        230.0     450.0            616.0       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      147.0        301.0      326.0            522.0       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         27.4         36.9       44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3          27.6       29.8             30.1        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        91.0        123.0      148.0            156.8        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0         472.0      520.0            794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.7         45.6       42.9             40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          51.6         51.6       54.2             55.4        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.8       2.9              3.2         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0          3.0       2.8              2.3         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                4.0         4.0        3.9              5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.1         44.2      43.8             34.6        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       17.9         13.2      10.5              8.7        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5 /f       3.3       3.1              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       191.7      750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            2.0      25.0             22.1        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               99.1       100.0      110.8            106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     83.0        86.0       87.0            108.7        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.0        45.0       50.0             57.7        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0 /R     22.0       19.2             17.0        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RAI'E       9.0          6.6       7.5              4.0         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.4           55.6      58.5             59.0        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             84.6        81.0       72.0             44.0        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFF WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        36.0       50.0             21.9        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                 ..        67.0       82.0             58.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..        20.0       31.0              9.8        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        57.0       56.0             28.6        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 ..        90.0       76.0             66.6        69.5         45.4
*                                 RURAL                                  *-        40.0       44.0             14.8        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..          ..    3130.0            4103.1      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      3840.0    2180.0            1520.2      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL DED
TOTAL                             1180.0       850.0      640.0            657.1       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..            145.5       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..           1011.8      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..             19.0        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8          5.9        ..              5.2          ..          5.2
URBAN                                 ..         6.2         ..              5.2          ..          5.0
RURAL                                 *-          5.8        ..              5.4          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         2.3         ..               ..          ..          2.0
URBAN                                 *-          2.1        *.               *'         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                 ..          2.4        ..               ..          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENr
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               17.0        23.0       31.0             39.1        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                 ..        60.4         ..               ..          ..         67 8
RURAL                                 ..         7.0       10.0               ..        10.3        34.1



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJlUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -L
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0       114.0      105.0             95.6        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                93.0        113.0     103.0             93.7        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0        50.0       56.0             43.3        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                25.0         50.0      57.0             38.6        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 14.0            ..         ..             11.3         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0        29.0       29.0             30.0        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                           27.0        33.0       31.0             25.4        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         71.9         82.6      87.0             84.0        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          8.0       8.0              9.3         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          22.0        72.0         *-             97.6        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4        10.0       17.0             21.8        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   17.0         14.0      18.0             25.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6             ..       7.6              4.6         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0       12400.0   15400.0                  -
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.4        33.1       32.7             33.2        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0        55.0       52.6             48.4        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.2        15.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8         36.6      35.3             38.9        37.8         33.8
MALE                                  52.1         48.6      47.1             48.6        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                27.4         24.4      23.3             28.4        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.5       1.3               1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8             ..         ..            17.3        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2           54.0      53.3             45.6        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2            3.6       5.5              6.5         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9           11.7      14.7             17.3        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      180.0            140.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      155.0            112.8        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL tUS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..               ..       143.7        319.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       87.0             76.8        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       26.0             27.7        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       40.0             40.4        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are popula±tio-weighted genmetric means, excluding tho extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia 6 Pacific;   Id  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle Income
($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   If  1950-55;   fg  Av. 1960-62.
September 1978



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICAT(ORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      %           1966-71            1971-76              1977
GNP at Market Prices            20,596        100.0           5.1                6.6                 6.3
Gross Domestic Investment         6,220        30.2           5.9               12.5                 2.7
Gross National Saving             5,393        26.2           2.4               10.8                12.4
Current Account Balance            -827        -4.0
Exports of Goods, NFS            4,021         19.5          -0.5                5.6               20.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            4,788         23.3           4.1                6.5                3.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE kND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            %       Million          %              US$               %
Agriculture           5,826             28.1         7.7         48.1               757           58.4
Industry             7,195              34.7         2.2         13.8             3,270          252.2
Services             7,724              37.2         5.4         33.7             1,430          110.3
Unemployed              .                .           0.7          4.4
Total/Average    20,745              100.0        16.0        100.0             1,297          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)            % of GDP
1977          1977          1971          1977           1977          1971
Current Receipts          22.7          14.8           11.3          20.0          13.1           9.2
Current Expenditure       19.3          12.6           10.1          16.9          11.0           7.6
Current Surplus            3.4           2.2            1.2           3.1           2.0           1.6
Capital Expenditures       5.4           3.5            1.6           5.1           3.3           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AN1) PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976         1977
(P billion outstanding end period)
Money Supply                           6.5        7.3        9.0       10.3       12.1        14.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           3.9        2.4        2.0        5.8        8.9        11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector         12.6       16.2       24.2       28.5       33.6        38.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5       10.1        9.0        8.9        9.2         9.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0         117.8      155.3      167.6      180.1       196.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.8       17.8       31.8        7.9        7.5         8.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0       53.4        23.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7       28.0       49.4       17.8       17.9        13.1
/a  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975    1976    1977                                       US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                      591       22.1
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,076   3,330   4,021   Sugar Products                           536       20.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           4,116   4,383   4,788   Forest Products                          288       10.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -1,040  -1,053    -767   Mineral Products                            438       16.4
Fruits & Other Agric. Products        196        7.4
Interest Payments (net)           -53    -185    -320   Other Manufacturers                      622       23.3
Other Factor Payments (net)   -149    -138                   Total                             2,673      100.0
Net Transfers                     318      269      260
Balance on Current Account    -924  -1,107    -827   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         125      144      216
Net MLT Borrowing                                          Public Debt, including Guaranteed          3,656
Disbursements                   677   1,407   1,229   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                    2,907
Amortization                    318      368      544   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             6,563
Subtotal                      359   1,039      685
Other Capital (net) /a            -80    -236       +90   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)         -521    -160       164
Public Debt, including Guaranteed             7.8
Gross Reserves                                             Nonguaranteed Private Debt                    9.8
(end year) /b                 2,080   2,206   2,263   Total Outstanding and Disbursed                17.6
Net Reserves
(end year) /b                   265      105      269
Petroleum Imports                 710      801      859
IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                    IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages        End Period   Outstanding and Disbursed                499.3   29.4
1976      1977    1978/e  Aug. 1978    Undisbursed                             1,105.0   30.8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,604.3   60.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.446    7.407    7.375    7.371
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.134    0.135    0.136    0.136
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b Reserves of the Central Bank and commercial banking system.
/c Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
/e Eight months only.



ANN!X II
PaN, lot  14
edgte I  r14 p.1k.s
niH STATUS oF SAIFx CROUP utPRkIrl)NS IN THIE PIIi.1PPINES
A. .STATmMERNT OF BAt!!_LtANSN A93ND IA1 CREDlITS
AS o f Septme  i*17
loan or
Credit                                                          Amounts        1i
Number     Year        Borrower         Purroa.            Sank    IDA    indjohurotd
Sixtees loans and two credits fully dieburaed             252.4    19.5
720-PR    3971                         Rice Processing
e              and Storage      14.3                2.3
b09-PF    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power              22.0                4.0
349-PY    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Edtration 11                12.7       2.7
891-PR    1973                         Fisheries           11.6               0.7
939-PF    1973                         Ports               6.1                1.4
950-PR    1973                         Second Righways   68.0                 7.4
984-PH    1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5               4.8
998-PR    1974                         DPC-DiP I          50.0                4.6
1034-PR     1974    National Power
Corporation      Power              61.0                8.4
1035-PR    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population         25.0               16.4
1048-PR    1974                         Shipping           20.0               13.9
1052-PR    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DIIC                30.0               15.2
1080-PH    1975    Republic or the   Tarla.
Philippinesa       Irrigation       17.0                9.3
1102-PR    1975                         Rural
Development      25.0               19.7
1120-PR     1975                        Small and Medium
Industries       30.0               8.0
1154-Pr    1976                         Magat
Irrigation       42.0              27.9
1190-Ph    1976                         DFC-IDSP II        75.0               44.9
1224-T-PH  1976                         Education lII      25.0               19.5
1225-PY1   1976                         Livestock 11       20.5               10.6
1227-PR    1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                47.0
1272-T-PH,  1976                        Manila Urban       10.0                8.0
1282-PY    1976                         Manila Urban       22.0               17.6
1269-PR    1976                         Second Grain
Processing       11.5               11.5
1270-PH    1976                         Second Fisherios  12.0                 9.0
1353-PR    1977                         Third Highways    95.0                89.2
1367-PH    1977                         Jalaur Irrigatio. 15.0                14.4
1374-Pd    1977                         Fourth Education  25.0                22.7
1399-FR    1977     Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit            36.5               29.7
1414-PR    1977    Republic of the   Nati-nal Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Imp. ovement     50.0              44.8
1415-PT     1977                        Provincial Cities
W kter Supply    23.0              21.5
1421-PR    1977                         Second Rural
Development-
land Settlement 15.0                F4.9
1460-PR    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power      58.0               57.7
1506-PR    1978    Republic of the   Smailholder Tree
Philippines        Farming           8.0                8.0
1514-PR     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DIC (PDCP)          30.0               30.0
1526-PR    1978    Republic of the   Second National
Philippinea        Irrigation
Systeers
Improvement      65.0              65.0
790-PR    1978    Republic of the   Rural lnfra-
Philippines        structure                 28.0      28.0
s.8-Pb    1978    Republic of. the
PhilJppines      Fducation           2.0                2.0
1547-PR    1978    Republic of the   Rusral Electri-
Philippines        fication         60.0               60.0
1 555-PS    1978    Phil ippine
National hank   DFC-PlSO            15.0               15.0
1567-PR    1978    Republic of the
Philippines      MACAT IT          150.0              150.0
1572-PR    1978    Republic of the   Industrial
Philippines        In,estment IIT  80.0                80.0
1615-PR *  1979    Republic of the   Secnnd  lnila
Philippine.        Water Supply    B8.0                88.0
Total                                          l.72.4    60.2  1,135.7
of which han been repaid
(Bank .ad third parties)                       121.1        -
Total nr,w ourstanding                          I k,'4.3    60.2
AmnLt nold                        22.3
of uli hIua been rnp.dl
('hirrl p..rties)               13.1             9.         -
Tot.    held )]' P.,l  nod IDA
(pr i,,t  o *: ,-n0ge rate
aJIl 3!  n nsL.                             I,S IS,-    60.2
T)~tal .,,d t.h:,rr-d                          ILI -A °. -          3.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0      4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                    -     4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5        -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -      2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1          -        2.1
Total gross commitments                      73.1    15.3       88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        27.7    12.0       39.7
Total commitments now held by IFC            45.4      3.3      48.7
Undisbursed                                   5.1        -       5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have besen fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the diversion of water from the Aurora
basin into the Pantabangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for
30,000 ha of rice land in Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and
abutment area grouting on the two diversion dams was more extensive than
originally expected, progress on the transbasin diversion has been excellent.
Diversion of 75% of Aurora water, on closure of the first dam in July 1975,
was an early benefit for the Central Luzon rice growing area. The second dam
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
was closed on April 1, 1976, about one year ahead of schedule. In the service
area, lack of competition and high bids delayed awarding of contracts, but
five small local construction firms are now at work. Urgent work is being
done by government forces. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation. Although there
are added benefits from early diversion resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have been added to the
project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at appraisal to
around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement on the Loan
has begun. Because of delays in completion of civil works in the Penaranda
service area, full disbursement is not likely to be completed until mid-1979
and the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit to the private sector
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for marine and inland
fisheries development. The Loan became effective on December 5, 1973. It is
fully committed, and is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date
(June 30, 1979). DBP has had difficulty in setting up a benefit monitoring/
evaluation system on its own, but it is now seeking local consultancy assistance.
Although not entirely satisfactory, loan collections have been considerably
better than for most of DBP's agricultural operations.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving.  Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural devel-
opment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The construction of roads has now begun after delays caused by the unsatisfac-
tory performance of a number of contractors. Disbursements, which currently
stand at 39% of projections, are lagging behind physical accomplishment due to
difficulties encountered in prompt processing of force account work and in
coordinating disbursement requests between agencies. Steps are now being
taken to streamline disbursement procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads is progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. Despite a relative slowdown in lending over the past year, the
project remains several months ahead of schedule and would be fully disbursed
well before the Closing D)ate of June 30, 1982. The demand for piggery and
poultry subloans has exceeded appraisal estimates, but lending for beef cattle
development lags behind due to problems of land tenure, financial incentives,
technical knowledge and pasture development. The Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), the project executing agency, has strengthened its technical
supervision of subloans, but further improvements are required in its management
information system and loan collection performance.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program
are progressing satisfactorily. Although construction is nearly a year
behind schedule, sufficient equipment has been delivered so that force
account work can now proceed rapidly. Also bids have been opened for the
first major construction contract, and this construction should soon be
started.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to assist in increasing fish production for
domestic consumption. Fishing vessels, iceplants with cold storage, a slipway,
and new and rehabilitated milkfish ponds are being financed under the project.
The loan became effective on November 15, 1976. Subloan approvals by DBP were
ahead of schedule in the first half of 1977, but have slowed down considerably,
due to problems in procurement procedures for fishing vessels, and DBP's
increased emphasis on loan collection. The procurement issue has been resolved
and the project is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Detailed design for a major part of the works has been completed.
Contracts have been awarded for the procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for the improvement and enlargement of existing main canals of the
four systems are being awarded and construction has begun. The overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. With the recent increased participation of many
rural banks, commitments have recovered from an initial low rate. However, a
shortfall in commitments of as much as 20% may still be experienced because of
a decline in demand for four-wheel tractors without compensating growth in
demand in other subloan categories. In order to determine what changes in
project design or duration may be needed to ensure effective use of project
resources unlikely to be committed to this category of subloan, the Central
Bank is conducting a comprehensive reassessment of the lending program to be
reviewed with the next supervision mission.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed ahead of schedule.
Project works are slightly behind schedule; however, with strengthening of
design teams in the regional offices, a major part of the design would be
completed before the end oiE 1978. Construction activities during 1977/78 dry
season are limited to the improvement of secondary laterals and the construc-
tion of service roads along these laterals in the Ilocos subproject.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve its National
Resettlement Program through technical assistance, organizational changes and
pilot programs to provide infrastructure and agricultural support services in
three settlement areas. The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. Proce-
dural problems concerning budget releases and staff appointments have adversely
affected progress in project implementation and have resulted in the execution
of most scheduled events being about a year behind schedule. However, progress
in detailed planning and design is generally satisfactory and the Government
has taken steps to resolve budgetary difficulties.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is a continuation of the US$2 million Bank-financed Tree-
farming Pilot Project (Loan 998-PH), with additional project components in
large-scale plantations, forestry research and planning. Operations have begun
for most project components. Although the large-scale plantation component is
below target because of insufficient seed supply and managerial constraints,
no delaying effect on project completion is anticipated. Initial budgetary
deficiencies are expected to be overcome at the latest by the second year.
Due to the early stage of the project, disbursements have not yet begun.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government to improve and develop irri-
gation systems on 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen the National
Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement was signed on
March 15, 1978 and became effective on June 12, 1978. The project is in its
initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction activities. Topographic
surveys and mapping are ahead of schedule. Improvement of main and secondary
canals is expected to start in November 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit is financing the construction and improvement of basic
infrastructure in six provinces chosen on the basis of low level of per capita
income and inadequate infrastructure. The infrastructure funded includes
communal irrigation systems, improvement of ports, health stations, rural
water supply and village roads. The credit was signed on April 21, 1978.
The Project is in its initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction
activities. Construction work on communal irrigation systems and village
roads has started.
Loan No. 1563-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Million
Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage II
of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve systems
operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed and works
on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion
tunnels are underway and expected to be completed by 1979. The civil works
contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is in the
process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress has improved on civil works construction for both General
Santos and Cagayan de Oro, and the delays reduced to two and five months
respectively behind schedule. Work is now 65% completed at General Santos and
40% at Cagayan de Oro. About 180 m of the new quay at General Santos and 60 m
at Cagayan de Oro, have been turned over to the Philippine Ports Authority
(PPA) and are now in use.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 95% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for che Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control has been procured, civil



ANNEX II
Page 9 of I pages
works for permanent weigh stations are underway and the axle load control
program is scheduled for initial implementation by August 1978. The total
cost of the project has increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal
estimate) due to the oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project
execution, and continuing inflation.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries for the
acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions.
Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the private
sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of loans, restric-
tive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending terms offered by
DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending institutions in the
Philippines. However, these problems have now been resolved and subloan
commitments are expected to be fully made within the next six months.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and contractor
mobilization is underway. Consultants for supervision of construction have
been appointed and have established themselves in the field. The technical
assistance advisors for maintenance improvement and road restoration have
been appointed and took up their duties beginning in September 1977. The
training advisors were appointed and began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies have been appointed and
began work in November 1977. Consultants for workshop design and construc-
tion supervision have been appointed and began work in May 1977. After
a delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance and road restoration program
is now beginning to be implemented with planning of road restoration proj-
ects underway, contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded, procurement con-
tracts for maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and machinery being
prepared and normal maintenance activities being organized. Overall, project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates but indications are
that project execution will be delayed by about 12 months due to late start
of some critical activities.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns. The
fellowship program is behind schedule, and will extend two years beyond the
Closing Date. Savings in the Third Education Project will finance the balance
of the program.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Implementation is
proceeding on schedule, and project costs are well within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the exception of
civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about four months because
of delayed government clearances. Project costs are within the appraisal
estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and evalu-
ate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher training
and primary classroom teaching.  The loan became effective on August 22, 1978.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. The progress of
the project is generally satisfactory. A paper on the status of this project
was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
There has been a delay of about 2 months in the preparation of detailed designs
for the construction of waLter supplies to six cities. This loss of time is
expected to be made up in the coming months. The preparation of feasibility
studies for 10 cities is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study.
The Government is also taking action for the training of staff in the design of
small community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of July 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The Loan
Agreement was signed July 26, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule. Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about US$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978
to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$113.8
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$4.3 million (7%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will include the expansion of the transmission
system in Luzon, a load dispatching center, consultants' services for manage-
ment improvement and a tariff study. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978. Progress on works is generally satisfactory, but, because of each
action by Government and the National Power Corporation (NPC) with regard to
tariff increases, the rate of return covenant is unlikely to be met.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help finance the 1979/80 rural electrification
program of the National Electrification Administration. The loan became
effective on August 17, 1978. Procurement action is under way.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1978,



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 1'/ pages
total commitments reached US$25.28 million. Commitments and disbursements
have been slower than originally expected because of the poor investment
climate which prevailed until 1977 in the Philippines. Business activities
have picked up in 1978 and the loan is expected to be fully committed by
early 1979. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975, Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange component of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower thaLn expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors
approved a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and
medium industries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement
to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977. As of October 13, 1978, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully
committed. In addition, $13.9 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan was signed on February 9, 1978, and became effective June 23,
1978.
.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of imported capital goods and services for eligible
productive enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of October 31,
1978, commitments for subloans totalling US$8.05 million had been made.
Since the pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan
appraisal, the loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan was signed on June 6, 1978. It became effective September 15,
1978.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II IRRIGATION
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  24 months
(b) The project was prepared by NIA with the assistance of consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  July 1974
First Bank mission to consider the project: July 1976.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 1978.
(e) Completion of negotiations: October 12, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1979.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank, IFAD, and the Philippine Government have agreed on an
implementation timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
Section III: Special Condition
During negotiations assurances were obtained that NIA would ensure
that the aggregate amount of civil works carried out by force account would
not exceed 40% of the total cost of civil works, excluding those subject to
international competitive bidding (para. 49).






zio-   B&x6DYAn    C6a~Anroo12-I   
B         LO
r -,  riJ .&\B~n~
-B    ~~~~~~~~~-                           Sr ~~~~~~~~~~DIVERSION, DA 
I ,.aTgAN ES T
,~~                    PROVINC~~E NAMES
0                                      1AB~~00  HRA
"S           -                    ~~~~~~2 [LOOS NORTE
'2    SMOUNTAIN PROVINCE                                                                                          .A~1~
MHNI  22  ',           6 ISBENGAE
o'-'           (,                         ?>                  \   1                                        gA'(    ,,  /                         St        g       l-(Aimrv en    r
U.  -  -                        '12  ~~~~~NUEVA VIZCAVA    4Ber                                                                                    ,,EAMrds
20  "-3  BAIHN                                                                                                                                                          na/-Mercedesin
[-aauk Awinrd Laa- V,figa,-  P'OI0n ~ 6  PAMPANGA                              I/Nc0/
I    Uppor P-a. PIce Prq,            7l  PANGOASINAN                                                                                         i2    ha
ILor 637-PHi                   10  TARLAC
0  LOCO CR-Parararda Ir72gatO                                               *-_ II ZAMBApES
IllTala Irieie  cnrrn rerorae 203  BATANGAS
2cu   1   1  CAVIT E
Ch Ri- RicoI lr   Prio,r r-n          22  LAGUNAi
iL-e 1227-PHI                  22  RIZAL                                                                                                                   Y
-14\--- Naliorul h,ghways
…Provincialr bofurhdan esf              f c       S      ; <>0 s5                                                 ~                   g                                             rvnl1bLdes
P .. md,!5,,,E,{-fd.,-dh                                 2o                                        :9e9             -                                                           9vT3nmsinhe
bRi-rebas  ob-dr t t s n           
120'                                  22
or scceptat ce of ssph~~~~~~~~~~~~MGA    RESERVDA.    AN  MAA   M                                                                                                       2RI                .     e     ,   
PLAN        U                                                                                                                                   MAM
72 34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SanIBesn                                                                                           oVI4P
WarES Bunco arafe,uricanaic ray ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     o                                                                           xitin   mincaal
rhacocceinionco erra,rnadarrae ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     Popse   mincaal
TOn deraeniino nirir a ica,t arid rca~~2                                                                                       M        tae IA Iprvemnt  re
OrcirrOarina ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~~ fu fcanna00 BrageOI 23                                                                                                                         B irnmprovemntreli   as   L n54P
ictoOrner air iii, Aaaloearcn of                             Art    ~            ~        ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ VNE /Stgel13extnsin*aea
ri,ccnclaiicoofaiiclOui.nda,iaa.                            Vir.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DmsGn  r!sevo0S 2                                       4              cnsrucro
MILES ;    H)



