CONFORMED COPY
IBRD LOAN NUMBER 1639 PH
IFAD LOAN NUMBER 8 PHI
Joint Project Agreement
(Magat River Multipurpose - Stage II
Irrigation Project)
between
REPITBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 26, 1979


﻿IBRD LOAN NUMBER 1639 PH
IFAD LOAN NUMBER 8 PHI
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF
THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower), INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Fund).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement with the Borrower of even date
herewith, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
loan in a principal amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000), for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of an irrigation project, described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS b: a loan agreement with the Borrower of even date
herewith, the Fund has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan, in a
principal amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000), for the same purpose;
WHEREAS the Fund has appointed the Bank as the Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan;
WHEREAS the parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual.
interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds
of such loans and the execution of the project to be financed
thereby, as well as other matters relating thereto, be regulated
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Agreement shall have the
following meanings:
(a) "Bank Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank referred to in the first recital to this
Agreement, as from time to time amended;
(b) "Fund Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Fund referred to in the second recital. to
this Agreement, as from time to time amended;


﻿-2-
(c) "Bank Loan" means the loan provided for in the Bank
Loan Agreement;
(d) "Fund Loan" means the loan provided for in the Fund Loan
Agreement;
(e) "Bank Account" and "Fund Account" mean the respective
accounts established under the Bank Loan Agreement and the Fund
Loan Agreement;
(f) "Project" means the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(g) "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an
agency established by the Republic Act No. 3601 of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h) "Second Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement (Second
Magat River Multipurpose Project) between the Borrower and the
Bank dated May 23, 1978 and "Service Area" means the service area
defined in Section 1.02 (c) of the Second Loan Agreement;
(i) "Project Area" means the South High Canal, Cauayan East,
Luna-Reina Mercedes and Siffu East Extension areas located in the
Service Area; and
(j) "ha" means hectares of land.
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Bank Loan and Fund Loan
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Bank Loan Agreement and the Fund
Loan Agreement, the amount of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan may
be withdrawn from the Bank Account and the Fund Account, respec-
tively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and
with the allocation of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation
may be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule or by further agreement among the parties to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
from the Bank Account and from the Fund Account for expenditures


﻿made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank
Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and con-
taining such statements and agreements as the Bank and the Fund
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be made
promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the application as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the applica-
tion.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy
the Bank and the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to withdraw
from the Bank Account and the Fund Account the amount applied for
and that such amount is to be used only for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Bank Account and from the Fund Account and the funds to be
withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 21:10,
or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Bank and
the Fund.
Section 2.05. (a) When the Bank shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Bank Account to or on
the order of the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the Bank Loan Agreement;
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Account


﻿in the aggregate amount specified in such notice,
that it has approved payment of the portion,
if any, to be withdrawn from the Bank Account in
the amount set forth in such notice, and that the
portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Account in
the amount set forth in such notice is eligible for
payment by the Fund.
(b) Upon receipt of such notice of the Bank, the Fund shall,
subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation of the Fund
Loan set forth in the Fund Loan Agreement, pay the amount so to be
withdrawn from the Fund Account in the currency and to the payee
stated in the notice.
Section 2.06. If at any time the amount of the Bank Loan or
of the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Bank Account or the Fund Account only, and the
provisions of this Article II except for Section 2.04 hereof shall
continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited
or to be credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or
cancelled.
Section 2.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such terms
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank may
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project. Any such special commitment by
the Bank shall, once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute
an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any
subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan and in
conformity with the foregoing Sections 2.05 and 2.06, such portion
of the total amount to be disbursed in fulfillment of such special
commitment as agreed pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
thro,pgh NIA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿- 5 -
with appropriate financial, administrative and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist NIA in the design of pumping
stations, procurement, installation and testing of pumping equip-
ment, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Bank
Loan or the Fund Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Fund
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank and the Fund at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank and the Fund shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived fro-i it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Bank Loan
and the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Fund, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish, or
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank and the Fund a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Fund
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and the
Fund of their respective obligations under the Bank Loan Agree-
ment, the Fund Loan Agreement and the Joint Project Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Bank Loan and the Fund
Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall grant or cause to be granted all
water rights required for existing, expanded or new irrigation
systems to enable NIA to carry out the Project, and except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, shall take such action as is required
to ensure that no other water rights except for domestic use are
granted which could adversely affect the water supply required
for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA to maintain
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NIA to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
Fund; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Fund as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿- 7 -
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Fund shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank and the Fund such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank and the
Fund shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in the Project to be operated and maintained
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural policies and practices, and shall make available
sufficient funds for such purposes.
(b) Without limitation on its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Bank and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary action to
ensure that charges for the use of irrigation water are levied and
collected from the users of the irrigation systems in the Project
Area in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04 (b) (ii) of
the Second Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. Without limiting the generality of Section
4.02 (a) hereinabove, the Borrower shall under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank and the Fund cause the dam and related
structures constructed under the Project to be periodically
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition
of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance
or methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety. To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Bank and
the Fund appropr.ate arrangements for the review of the Bank and
the Fund no later than one year before the expected completion of
such structures.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. (a) The Bank is hereby appointed by the Fund
and agrees to act as the Cooperating Institution for the 'adminis-
tration of the Fund Loan, with the responsibilities set forth in
Article V of the General Conditions to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Fund. Accordingly, any action required or permitted
to be taken by the Fund under this Agreement, other than actions
by the Fund referred to in Section 2.05 thereof, shall be taken by
the Bank as the Cooperating Institution on behalf of the Fund,
except as otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Fund.


﻿-8-
(b) The Bank and the Fund shall fully cooperate to ensure
effective coordination of their respective actions under the Bank
Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement and the achievement of
the purpose of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority of the person or persons who
will sign the applications provided for under Article II of this
Agreement or who will, on behalf of the Borrower, take any other
action or execute any other documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the Borrower under this Agreement, and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or
such person or persons as he shall designate in writing are
designated as the representative of the Borrower to take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as shall otherwise be agreed by
the parties hereto, this Agreement shall become effective on the
earliest date upon which the Bank Loan Agreement and the Fund
Loan Agreement shall both be in effect.
(b) If the Bank Loan Agreement or Fund Loan Agreement
terminates for failure to become effective in accordance with its
terms, this Agreement shall forthwith terminate and the Bank
or the Fund, as the case may be, shall promptly notify the
other parties hereto of such termination.
Section 5.05. This Agreement and all obligations thereunder
of the parties hereto shall terminate on the date upon which
both the Bank Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall
have terminated or on a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.06. Upon termination of the Bank Loan Agreement
or the Fund Loan Agreement only, the Bank or the Fund, as the case
may be, shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon
such notification, this Agreement shall continue to remain in
force and effect only for the purpose of implementation of the
Bank Loan Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties hereunder,
subject to such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed
among the parties hereto or as shall be reasonably requested by
the Bank or the Fund for such purposes.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.07. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made by any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or mail,
telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
specified below or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable Address:                           Telex:
MINFIN                                 7550-CBP-PH
Manila                                 0268-CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Fund: (except for matters within the responsibilities
of the Bank or the Cooperating Institution for administration of
the Fund Loan, for which notice or requests will be delivered to
the Bank):
International Fund for
Agricultural Development
107 Via del Serafico
00142
Rome
Italy


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
IFAD                                65160 IFAD
Rome
Section 5.08. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. All such coun-
terparts shall collectively be but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names, and to be delivered
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, and Rome,
Italy, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Cesar Virata
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL FANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A.M. Al Sudeary
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Bank Loan and Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan,
the allocation of amounts of the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan
to each Category and the respective percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
Bank Loan   Fund Loan
(1) Civil Works
(a) mobilization     1,350,000    650,000   100% of foreign
and construc-                          expenditures
tion equipment
for civil works
contractors
(b) other civil     12,900,000  6,100,000   45%
works (includ-
ing force ac-
count works)
(2) Equipment and        5,100,000   2,400,000
Materials
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) locally manu-                           100% of ex-
factured                               penditures
(ex-factory)
(c) goods pro-                              65%
cured locally
(3) Consultants'           150,000      50,000   100%
services


﻿- 12 -
Amount Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
Bank Loan   Fund Loan
(4) Unallocated          1,500,000     800,000
TOTAL     21,000,000  10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policies of the Bank and the Fund that no proceeds
of the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policies.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation or the disbursement per-
centages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Bank Loan
and the Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Bank Loan and the Fund
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to


﻿- 13 -
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan and the Bank and the Fund may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Bank Loan Agreement or of
the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan, respec-
tively, as, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank or the Fund, as
the case may be, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan, respectively.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents Part 4 (Irrigation) of the Borrower's
Second Stage Magat Project as outlined in Schedule 5 to the Second
Loan Agreement, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of the Baligatan diversion dam together with
intake structures, main canal with major laterals and service
roads in the South High Canal Extension area.
Part B:
Construction of irrigation and drainage facilities and roads
in Siffu East, Luna-Reina Mercedes and Cauayan East Extension
areas; and construction of on-farm irrigation facilities in the
South High Canal Extension area.
Part C:
Construction of three pumping stations to serve higher lands
in the Project Area.
Part D:
Provision and installation of pumps, motors, auxiliary
equipment and pipelines.
Part E:
Procurement of vehicles and equipment for project implemen-
tation and operation and maintenance.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bid, for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 16 -
the Republic of the Philippines may be granted a margin of prefer-
ence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Republic of the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs &aties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 17 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and materials with unit prices not exceeding the
equivalent of $10,000 each may be purchased in accordance with the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, provided that the aggregate of items so procured shall not
exceed the equivalent of $200,000.
2.   Civil works under Parts B and C of the Project may be carried
out either (a) by NIA under force account, or (b) by contracts
awarded under the Borrower's normal competitive bidding proce-
dures, provided that the aggregate cost of civil works carried
out by force account shall not, without the prior consent of the
Bank, exceed 40% of the total cost of all civil works under Parts
B and C of the Project.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification:
If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and all contracts for
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 18 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


