Report No. PID7956
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Natural Disaster Vulnerability (@).
Reduction
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Urban Environment
Project ID                       NIPE64916
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Implementing Agency
Address
Executive Secretariat for Disaster
Prevention, Mitigation and Response
Av. Bolivar, Busto Simon Bolivar,
1 c. al Norte, 1 c al Este, Edificio
Vice-Presidencia, Managua, Nicaragua
Contact Person: Arturo Harding
Tel: 505-228-6490
Fax: 505-278-4843
Email: aharding@vicepresidencia.gob.ni
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 21, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 8, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 10, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Vulnerability to Natural Disasters:Nicaragua's history has been punctuated
by devastating natural disasters which have set back the country's social
and economic progress. Its geographic location makes it a target for
hurricanes, droughts and fires, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, and
especially severe earthquakes. (Annex 11 includes a chart of recent
disasters in Nicaragua and Annex 4 describes macro-economic effects of
Nicaragua's recent disaster history.) Among Central American countries,
Nicaragua stands out in both the frequency and severity of natural
catastrophes. On average, annual deaths due to disasters in Nicaragua
stands at some 3,340 between 1970 and 2000, and the number of persons
injured or left homeless runs to some 60,000 per year, according to
figures of the International Red Cross. Each disaster has left the country
more vulnerable to the next round of natural catastrophes. Based on the
history of the past 50 years, the International Institute for Advanced
Systems Analysis has estimated that Nicaragua "should expect to lose
approximately 0.4w of capital stock, that is 240 million cordobas (20
million USD) annually from natural catastrophes, with possible extreme
events reaching 9,600 million cordobas (800 million in USD) in direct
losses," assuming that no mitigation measures are undertaken. National
vulnerability to natural disasters thus constitutes the major concern
which underlies sector issues listed below.(1) Need for Institutional
Coordination for Disaster Prevention, Preparedness and ResponseUntil now,
Nicaragua has had no overall system for disaster management or
coordinating agency to promote disaster prevention and emergency
response. It still lacks defined emergency procedures and a plan for long



term disaster mitigation and prevention. Throughout the last 25 years,
successive governments have established structures and laws focused on
disaster response, leaving preparedness, mitigation and prevention
unattended. But, as Mitch proved, even with a fairly well trained
emergency search and rescue capability in Civil Defense, the lack of
preparedness in the form of an overriding authority and of established
procedures led to costly delays and gaps in the response of organized
disaster response agencies. Moreover, the failure to maintain and train
local emergency committees between disasters has resulted in unnecessary
losses in even well-organized communities. While many existing agencies in
public and civil sectors can and should contribute to disaster
preparedness and response, from the fire departments to the church and the
Red Cross, a permanently established national agency with sufficient
authority has been urgently needed to assure that efforts are not
duplicated, and that all agencies have a clear notion of their role when a
disaster strikes. At the same time, an agency with a clear mandate to
promote and support mitigation and prevention activities both at national
and local levels. As Chart 1 in the PAD shows, similar disaster
management agencies exist in other countries in the hemisphere. Nicaragua,
with a record of 3-4 major natural disasters occurring per year (as of
this writing, 2000 saw major floods in two areas, a volcanic eruption, and
an earthquake) has yet to build up a permanent disaster management
capability as its neighbors have. (2) Need for a National Disaster
Mitigation Program and Strategy Nicaragua has no mitigation programs. This
stems in part from the lack of a coordinating disaster management agency,
as mentioned above, but it is reinforced by the fact that sector agencies
such as INETER (Institute for Research on Earth Sciences), MAGFOR
(Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry), MTI (Ministry of Transportation
and Infrastructure) and MARENA (Ministry of Environment and Renewable
Resources) have limited technical capacity to forecast, gather, analyze
and share information on natural hazards. Furthermore, basic studies
(vulnerability and policy assessments) need to be carried out in key areas
of: watershed management; building codes; seismic risk (particularly for
Managua) and involuntary resettlement. These studies could lead to
development of a national mitigation strategy and programs. (3) Public
Awareness of Disaster and of Prevention LimitedNotwithstanding the
frequency and impact of natural disasters in Nicaragua's national history,
disaster awareness and a "culture of prevention" is largely absent from
the formal education system and from the media. By the same token, few
national agencies and ministries take natural disaster emergencies into
account either in their outreach programs or in their internal planning.
(4) Emergency Preparedness, Hazard Analysis, Vulnerability Assessments
not Carried out at Local Levels. Despite their vulnerability to
disasters, local governments do not include hazard analysis or emergency
preparedness in municipal planning exercises. Local governments in
Nicaragua are currently assuming more responsibilities for their own
development planning and, with support from different agencies, are
increasingly identifying and carrying out priority investments for social
and environmental needs through participatory methodologies. Vulnerability
analysis and mitigation actions, however, have yet to be included in the
planning process or among priority investments, as emergency response
plans and preparedness have been relegated to the national agencies.
Lacking technical capacity to evaluate risks and to specify appropriate
measures, local governments have not been able to take needed steps to
identify areas at risk and to avoid the growth of settlements in these
- 2 -



areas, or to encourage appropriate land use and building standards. (5)
Lack of Financing for Disaster Mitigation Measures at Local
LevelNicaragua's municipalities continue to depend on national budget
transfers and on national programs to finance investments. Thus,
investment financing generally conforms to sector programs set by line
Ministries. To date, these have not included disaster mitigation. Although
FISE and INIFOM work closely with local governments to encourage
responsible development planning and to finance local implementation of
projects, neither agency includes risk analysis in its planning
procedures, or disaster mitigation in its menu of "eligible" works.
Government Strategy Following Hurricane Mitch, government took decisive
measures to reduce Nicaragua's vulnerability to natural disasters. To deal
with the short term, government, with help from the World Bank, identified
specific critical areas endangered in the aftermath of Mitch, and carried
out priority mitigation measures through two on-going projects implemented
by FISE and INIFOM (PROTIERRA). Looking to the long term, the Nicaraguan
government decided to develop a national disaster management system. With
help from UNDP, the governments of Spain and Colombia, a task force headed
by the Vice President designed a plan for a National System for Disaster
Prevention, Mitigation and Response. The plan led to the passage of Law
337 of 2000, published in the National Gazette April 4, 2000 which created
the Sistema Nacional para la Prevenci6n, Mitigaci6n y Atenci6n a los
Desastres (hereafter "the System"). To coordinate the System's members,
the Law established the Executive Secretariat for Disaster Prevention,
Mitigation and Response (hereafter "the Secretariat") lodged within the
Office of the Vice-Presidency and appointed an Executive Secretary, who at
the moment is the same person who managed the national response effort
during and immediately after Hurricane Mitch. The regulatory framework
required to apply and execute Law 337 was established through Decree
53/2000, which became effective on June 28, 2000. At the same time, the
detailed responsibilities of all entities comprising the National System
were assigned officially through Decree 98/2000 (effective since October
5, 2000).Among the priority actions identified under the Law #337, the
Secretariat is charged with:n making the System operational, ensuring
appropriate staffing of the Secretariat and of member agencies; n
preparing and activating a National Emergency Plan, clarifying policies,
procedures and standards to be applied, and training System members in the
Plan and, specifically, in their respective roles in disaster response,
prevention and mitigation; n establishing a Disaster Management Fund to
assure sustained financing for emergency response and relief;f
establishing and maintaining a data base, supported by geographical
information systems (GIS), relevant to disaster management, including
information on hazard and vulnerability assessments, as well as on
programs, projects and actions relevant to disaster prevention, mitigation
and response; andn establishing and coordinating working committees on
sector issues and on territorial issues to support disaster prevention and
mitigation through national agencies and local governments respectively.
2. Objectives
The development objective of this project is to improve Nicaragua's
disaster management capacity by:(a) strengthening institutional capability
in disaster management at the national level;(b) building institutional
capacity to program disaster mitigation at the national level;(c)
promoting disaster awareness and "preventive thinking" through public
sector education and awareness programs;(d) building local capacity to
-3 -



manage disaster emergencies, to assess risk and to identify mitigation
measures; and (e) implementing vulnerability reduction and mitigation
measures at the local level.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will be able to bring technical expertise from other countries
and experiences from its own disaster management projects to help the
Nicaraguan government orient its policies and investments.
4. Description
A. Strengthening of National System Capacity for Disaster Management This
component would be carried out by the Executive Secretariat through its
Planning Department. It would assure the sustainable establishment of the
National System while strengthening its capacity to respond to, prevent
and prepare for natural disasters through the following sub-components:
A.1. Institutional Strengthening of the Executive Secretariat through: (a)
Organizational Development and the Establishment of Capabilities in
Planning and Project Management, which will finance: consultancies to
carry out specific tasks for organizational development and project
management; training for Secretariat and System personnel in disaster
management and in the maintenance and use of specialized equipment; and
operating costs of the Secretariat on a declining basis; (b) Improvement
of Physical Plant and Equipment which will finance: engineering designs
and the civil works involved in the refurbishing a building donated to the
National System; purchase and installation of furnishings and equipment
for the Secretariat's use, including computer and communications systems;
purchase and installation of specialized equipment for an Emergency
Operations Center (EOC); and training in the use and maintenance of the
EOC.A.2. Strengthening of the National System through: (a) Development of
National Emergency Plans, (b) Improving National Emergency Response
Capability; and (c) A National Program of Emergency Simulations. The
sub-component will finance consultancies to design procedural guides, to
work out legal agreements, to carry out diagnostics of emergency response
equipment, and to prepare plans and programs under (a) and to assist in
design and implementation of simulation exercises under (c). It will also
finance purchase and distribution of emergency response equipment for the
National System and of supplies for emergency simulation exercises under
(b) and (c). Finally, it will include training activities in emergency
procedures, including disaster simulations, in the use and maintenance of
equipment.B. Development of National Mitigation Program and Strategy This
component will be the responsibility of the Inter-Institutional Commission
of the Executive Secretariat, which will work closely with technical
agencies such as INETER, MAGFOR, MARENA and MTI. The objective is to
improve the capacity of key technical agencies to gather, analyze and
share scientific knowledge and to develop studies leading to the
development of mitigation policies and strategy. In addition to a Sectoral
Coordinator to manage the component, the following sub-components would be
financed: B.1 Mitigation Information System through: (a) consultancies to
design and set up an information management system linking key technical
agencies of the National System; and (b) acquisition and installation of
needed hardware and software, and training to staff from the participating
agencies. B.2 Development of a resettlement policy for application in
cases of homes at risk from natural disasters.B.3 Strategic Mitigation
Studies to define a national mitigation program through consultancies to:
(a) prepare a Seismic vulnerability assessment for Managua; (b) Assess
-4 -



watershed vulnerability overall and to carry out a pilot mitigation plan
in a priority watershed; and (c) Review and update the national building
codes.B.4 Prepareation of a long term National mitigation program and
strategy based on findings of other studies.B.5 Provision of Expert
Technical Assistance in local vulnerability analyses and identification of
mitigation measures in support of sub-component D.2. C. Building Public
Awareness of Disaster Prevention This component is focused on making
disaster prevention a part of daily life and culture and will be managed
by the Public Relations Department of the Executive Secretariat. In
addition to a Public Relations expert to manage the component, various
activities under the following sub-components would be financed: C.1
Mainstreaming Disaster Awareness into Formal Education: In conjunction
with the Ministry of Education (Direcci6n Didactica) this sub-component
would include: (a) consultancies to update methodological guides for
teachers to design and produce instructive materials for application in
formal school programs; and to evaluate the incorporation of disaster
awareness into the formal education system; and (b) training for teachers
in the use of the new methodological guides and teaching plans. C.2 Public
Awareness Program, covering (a) consultancies to design a public awareness
campaign, including information on disaster management and the National
System and to design graphic, radio and visual programs to promote
disaster knowledge; and (b) production of multi-media materials and
dissemination through the media.C.3 Strengthening Disaster Knowledge in
the Communications Media through: (a) training for journalists and
communications employees; and (c) consultancies to review and propose
reforms in the education curricula for communications professionals.D.
Strengthening Local Capacity for Disaster Risk Management The Territorial
Commission of the Executive Secretariat will be responsible for the
implementation of this component, in coordination with local governments,
FISE, Civil Defense, and supported by an advisory group from INETER. In
addition to financing a Territorial Coordinator to manage the component,
the sub-components listed below would be financed with the objective of
reducing vulnerability at the municipal level: D.1 Consolidation of
Committees for Disaster Management. Responsibility for disaster response
in Nicaragua rests with local governments. The objective of this
subcomponent is to organize, equip and train committees for disaster
emergency response throughout the country's municipalities. The Executive
Secretariat will work with the Civil Defense in the purchase of emergency
response and disaster prevention equipment (first aid needs, search and
rescue materials, communications equipment and uniforms). It will also
finance the Civil Defense to carry out training of two kinds: (a)
organization of the committees, including distribution of equipment for
emergency response; and (b) training in use of equipment and in emergency
response including development of local emergency response plans, and
local simulation exercises. D.2 Promotion of "Preventive Planning." With
the objectives of strengthening municipal planning and technical units in
disaster prevention, this component will introduce techniques of
vulnerability assessments and mitigation planning to a pilot group of 25
municipalities, identified as the most vulnerable to natural disasters.
(See PAD Annex 13). Financing under this sub-component will support
consultancies for teams which combine technical expertise in disaster
assessments with experience in participatory planning and community
development to (a) carry out hazard analyses, vulnerability mapping,
identification of mitigation measures and prioritization of these
measures in each selected municipality; and (b) prepare long-term land use
- 5-



plans which identify areas at risk and actions to avoid inappropriate
settlement or land use.E. Implementation of Local Vulnerability Reduction
Measures This component would be the responsibility of FISE, but would be
supervised by the Territorial Coordinator of the Executive Secretariat.
Support to FISE for project financial management will be provided through
Component F. FISE will develop annual operating plans in conjunction with
the Territorial Coordinator for municipalities participating in
subcomponent D.2 (see above) and will carry out activities described under
the following sub-components:E.1 Selection of Sub- Projects and
Preparation of Municipal Investment Plan: Following FISE's normal planning
sequencing this component will finance consultancies to supplement FISE's
work with local governments on municipal investment plans (MIP), to
prioritize and to incorporate the mitigation measures identified earlier
(under Subcomponent D.2) into the "MIP." FISE's consultants will also
review proposed mitigation measures according to agreed on economic,
technical and financial criteria (see Annex 2 and also Summary Analysis)
and select those which are eligible for implementation.E.2 Implementation
and Evaluation of Mitigation Measures. Measures to be implemented under
this sub-component will be limited to an agreed upon amount in each
municipality. Projects should focus on preventive planning, i.e.,
limiting future losses by avoiding construction on areas at risk and on
retrofitting key buildings and infrastructure before considering
protective works. As such, protective works would be chosen after
comparison of costs versus the number of persons and constructions
directly protected. As per FISE's standard implementation practices, this
subcomponent would finance: (a) consultancies to develop engineering
designs and bid packages for mitigation measures and to evaluate the
proposed mitigation measures, from technical, financial and environmental
points of view, (including contracting of specialists in the case of
protective works, to assure that adequate standards are applied); and (b)
implementation of mitigation measures which are not on the "negative list"
(see below). F. Project Financial Management This component refers to
the development of project financial administrative capacity to take
responsibility for procurement, contracting and acquisitions, flow of
funds, disbursements, payments, internal and external auditing and
financial reporting to IDA. As shown in PAD Annex 6, Chart 6-1, financial
administration will be shared between the Public Sector Reform Project
Unit - UCRESEP (components A-D) and FISE (component E), both of which will
report to the Planning Department in the Executive Secretariat, which is
charged with project management. Both UCRESEP and FISE are experienced in
financial management and in implementation of Bank projects. Under this
component, the project will finance their additional needs for staffing,
office equipment, hardware and software, and training. Financing will
cover costs of: (a) consultancies to cover additional procurement and
accounting needs for UCRESEP; (b) acquisition of software, computers and
office furnishings; and (c) consultancies to cover additional procurement
and accounting needs for the Executive Secretariat. A projected sequence
of activities for each Component and Subcomponent is presented in Annex
2, Chart 2-2.
A. Strengthening of National System Capacity for Disaster Management
B. Development of National Mitigation Program and Strategy
C. Building Public Awareness of Disaster Prevention
D. Strengthening Local Capacity for Disaster Risk Management
E. Implementation of Local Vulnerability Reduction Measures
F. Project Financial Management
- 6-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       16.05
6. Implementation
The Executive Secretariat will be responsible for overall project
management and, ultimately, for its successful implementation. Within the
Secretariat, project management will be the direct responsibility of its
Planning Department, as shown in Chart 3, below. The Planning Department
of the Secretariat will also be responsible for the implementation of
Component A, relying on its various units, on the Secretariat's Department
of Finance and Administration and on Civil Defense for implementation of
specific sub-components as shown in Chart 3.The remaining project
components are each the responsibility of different Departments of the
Secretariat or agencies of the System, as follows: Component B, Sectoral
Coordination Department of the Secretariat; Component C, Public Relations
Department of the Secretariat; Component D, Territorial Coordination
Department of the Secretariat; Component E, FISE and Component F, UCRESEP.
These departments and agencies together form the Technical Committee for
Project Implementation, which is headed by the Planning Department of the
Executive Secretariat.Technical Committee members will prepare annual
operating plans and budgets, and project progress reports for submission
to the Planning Department of the Secretariat, which will pass them to
UCRESEP for use in financial management. Technical Committee members will
also prepare terms of reference for contracts financed under the project
and submit them to the Planing Department of the Secretariat for approval.
The Planning Department will, in turn, pass them to UCRESEP which will
obtain a "no objection" from IDA and carry out the appropriate procurement
process. The Planning Department of the Secretariat is responsible for
passing on approved operating plans, budgets, and terms of reference to
UCRESEP in a timely way so that UCRESEP can manage procurement and
financial reporting. The Planning Department of the Secretariat will
receive PMRs (Integrated Project Management Reports) from UCRESEP, review
them and share them with IDA and with the Technical Committee and will
also be responsible for presenting semi-annual progress reports to
IDA.Chart 3 Executive Secretariat Organization and Project Management
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of project objectives depends on two key variables; one
the successful mainstreaming of disaster awareness concerns into
operations by other Ministries and agencies; and two, the ability of the
National System to operate during and beyond the next two presidential
administrations. Regarding the first, supervision teams from both this
and other projects should review the adoption of risk analysis and
disaster planning in standard municipal development plans, and in the
participatory planning exercises carried out by FISE and local governments
in all municipalities. Continued IDA involvement in decentralization
projects and in participatory planning exercises will certainly encourage
the sustained application of disaster analysis and mitigation to local
governments. Regarding the second, the three year implementation period
should give a clear impetus for establishing the Secretariat and the
System it coordinates.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design and content draw on several lessons learned from the
- 7-



Association's experience in emergency disaster operations as well
experiences garnered under the fifteen project portfolio in Nicaragua. In
terms of disaster response operations, ex-post evaluations emphasize the
importance of investing in measures which enable the borrower to better
mitigate the effects of future disasters. This project will focus
significantly on mitigation and prevention, as distinct from
reconstruction (the traditional focus of the Association's post-disaster
projects) and relief (the focus of emergency assistance agencies like the
Red Cross). It should result in a mainstreaming of disaster awareness and
disaster prevention measures in local planning and in future IDA
operations as well. Ex-post reviews have made two other strong
recommendations for local ownership and for strong government commitment
in project design. In this case, the project has been developed on the
basis of the Nicaraguan government's proposed National Plan for Risk
Reduction and in response to a law enacted by the Congress. The components
for municipal investment call for participatory planning to build local
ownership of measures identified and implemented.A final lesson which
emerges from the post-disaster reviews concurs with Association experience
in Nicaragua: strengthening existing institutions rather than creating new
ones. In this case, while the National System and the Executive
Secretariat clearly constitute new institutions, the project components
for national and local support will be carried out through existing
agencies, through the Executive Secretariat's working groups for sector
issues and for territorial issues. The fortunate existence of strong
institutions like FISE, INETER and Civil Defense working successfully with
and through local governments means that the Secretariat can rely on
experienced support and focus on a role as coordinator or emergency
response and promoter of long-term mitigation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is considered to be a Category "B"
project, as recommended by the QAT clearance memo dated July 6, 1999. The
majority of civil works will involve restoration and protection of the
environment, retrofitting of existing infrastructure, and are not expected
to have any negative environmental effects. Although the project will not
finance any physical resettlement, only feasibility studies and cost
estimates, the Government's policy guidelines, and experience in
resettlement will be analyzed in Component B as part of a study to develop
a resettlement policy acceptable to the Bank. Additionally, a checklist
has been prepared which details the environmental screening and impact
evaluation process for approving mitigation measures (Annex 2 in PAD).
This checklist is to be presented to and accepted by IDA prior to credit
effectiveness.As the agency charged with implementing Component E, FISE
will be charged with assuring that no adverse environmental impact results
from the mitigation measures. FISE's task will be aided in part by the
maximum of US$100,000 for expenditure on any one municipality, which
necessarily limits the size and impact of projects. Furthermore, FISE will
implement only projects which do not appear on the "negative list" (below)
and which are in compliance with the afore-mentioned checklist, requiring
impact analysis of certain types of projects. Priority mitigation
measures identified as financially feasible would be integrated into an
investment program to be included in the Municipal Investment Plan. To
accomplish this objective, FISE would follow its participatory planning
- 8 -



methodology, which promotes leadership on the part of the municipal
government, and close partnerships between thelocal government and central
agencies and ministries, and civil society. Financing for Implementation
of sub-projects (component E.2) will be conditional on FISE's presenting
thefollowing formulae found acceptable by the Association: 1. For
evaluating project costs: Pre-established costs for standard items as
noted in guidelines, Maximum cost perperson protected, or formula for
cost/benefit analysis based on insurance or reconstruction costs 2. For
evaluating environmental impact: Terms of Reference for an independent
environmental impact assessment 3. For evaluating technical design: Codes
to be applied in cases of construction in areas at risk of flood,
landslide, windand seismic events and Terms of Reference for special
review by experts in disaster resistant construction Negative list The
project will not finance any subproject which will be classified as
category A under the Bank's EA policy, or subprojects which are
implemented in violation of Nicaragua's environmental laws and
environmental impact assessment procedures, or Nicaragua's laws on
treatment of cultural heritage. Nor will any physical or economic
involuntary displacement (as interpreted in accordance with the
Association's Operational Directive (OD) 4.30) take place as a consequence
of the execution of the Subprojects; specifically, no person shall have -
as a consequence of the execution of the Subprojects - his or her: (i)
right, title or interest in any house or any other fixed or movable goods
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (ii) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected;
Specifically, subprojects involving the following activities will be
excluded from financing:    Dam construction, reconstruction,
rehabilitation or strengthening. Activities affecting natural protected
areas recognized by central, departmental, regional or municipal
governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than to rehabilitate areas
damaged by a previous natural disaster. Land reclamation (i.e., drainage
of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create land).     Land clearance
and leveling (when affecting natural habitats and natural land contours,
natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where
most of the original plant and animal species are still present), except
for clearing of debris resulting from an emergency. (For more details on
natural habitats, Bank Operational Policy (OP) 4.04 can be consulted at
www.worldbank.org). Hazardous waste management and disposal as well as
manufacture, transport and use of pesticides and other hazardous and/or
toxic materials (except small amounts of solvents, degreasing materials,
paints, fuels, and the like used during construction). River training
(such as realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing river
channel, or excavation of a new river channel).    Activities involving
industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates. New road
construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads ("major" means
changing the road category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or
secondary to primary; adding new lanes; or changing road surface).     New,
large-scale irrigation, drainage or flood control works. Activities which,
when being carried out, will affect, or involve the use of, water of
rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow
through or are bordered by countries other than Nicaragua, in such a
manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water
flowing to or bordering said countries; and (b) activities involving the
installation or construction of facilities which, when operated after
their construction or installation, will affect, or involve the use of,
-9-



water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which
flow through or are bordered by countries other than Nicaragua, in such a
manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water
flowing to or bordering said countries (unless such bordering countries
have formally expressed in writing to the Bank and to the Guarantor their
no-objection to the activities referred to in (a) or (b) herein).
Activities relating to forestry production other than reforestation of
areas at risk. Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and
harbors.   Aquaculture and mariculture activities.    River basin
development activities. Development of new, or expansion of existing,
thermal power and hydropower facilities. Activities of any type
classifiable as category A for environmental purposes pursuant to Annex B
of   the Association's December 1998 policy document entitled Good
Practices (GP) 4.01. Conversion or degradation of critical natural
habitats (as defined in the Association's September 1995     Operational
Policy (OP) 4.04, Annex A, on natural habitats).FISE is well aware of the
Bank's policy on environmental impact and FISE has already established a
capable staff and adequate procedures to evaluate environmental risks
linked to sub-projects. Its Environmental Unit has been in place since
1997, staffed by three professionals (two environmental engineers and one
ecologist) who are responsible for monitoring environmental issues. Among
other tasks, this unit is responsible for: (a) review of a sample of
projects (both desktop and in the field) to ensure that environmental
impacts are identified and mitigated throughout all stages of the project
cycle; (b) reviewing proposals for projects that have more significant
environmental impacts (i.e., water and sanitation, roads, etc.); (c)
designing and managing environmental projects (reforestation, watershed
protection, and solid waste management); (d) providing training to both
FISE staff and external supervisors in environmental impact assessment and
mitigation; (e) produce monthly reports on the state of environmental
issues related to FISE. The Association has regularly supervised this
system, such as under the Nicaragua Poverty Reduction and Local
Development Project, and found it adequate, meeting Association
requirements, as provided for in OP 4.01 paragraph 9 (January, 1999).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Tova M. Solo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4760
Fax: 202-522-3552
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
- 10 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 2, 2001.
- 11 -



