Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
September 19 ,2002 
 
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas 
Minister  
Ministry of Finance & Public Credit 
Edificio Nuevo MIFIN 
Fte a la Asamblea Nacional 
Managua 
NICARAGUA 
 
Re:  
Japan Social Development Fund Grant for  
 
Community-Level Vulnerability Reduction Project 
 
Grant Number 051374
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social 
Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding US$1,489,300 (one million, four 
hundred eighty-nine thousand, three hundred United States dollars) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Nicaragua (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance for the 
project described in paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the Project and on the 
said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  This Letter Agreement will 
become effective on the date IDA dispatches to the Recipient notice that it has received: (a) the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you; and (b) evidence, satisfactory to IDA, that: (i) 
a
manual, satisfactory to IDA, establishing all the operational procedures required for Project 
Page  2
-2-  
 
execution (the Operational Manual) has been adopted for the Project; and (ii) the agreement 
referred to in paragraph 2.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement has been entered into between 
the parties thereto.  If such conditions are not fulfilled within 90 days from the date of signing of 
this Letter Agreement by the Bank, this Letter Agreement will terminate, unless the Bank 
establishes, by notice to the Recipient, a later date for that purpose. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/Suzana Campos Abbott 
Acting Director 
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By  
/s/Eduardo Montealegre 
Name Eduardo 
Montealegre 
Title  
Ministro de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Date: 1 de Octubre de 2002 
Page  3
-3-  
 
ANNEX
Objective, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. 
Objective and Description of the Project
1.1. 
The objectives of the Project are to: 
(a) complement the activities under the Natural 
Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project being financed by IDA pursuant to the 
Development Credit Agreement, dated May 2, 2001, between the Recipient and IDA for 
Credit No. 3487-NI; (b) build and strengthen capacity for environmental risk assessment 
and management; (c) to formalize and expand the partnership between the local non-
governmental organizations and the Municipality of Managua for dealing with social 
issues and community building in identifying and addressing the environmental risks and 
proposing solutions for such risks; (d) develop new techniques for risk management, 
management planning, and financial and technical decision-making at the community 
level; and (e) develop new technical solutions based on community design, construction 
and management, and to reduce environmental risks, in particular those emanating from 
landslides and floods.
 
1.2. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following 
activities (Activities): 
 
Part A
.
Community-driven Risk and Vulnerability Assessments
Carrying out, on a participatory basis, of risk and vulnerability assessments by target 
communities in Managua.  This Activity will also include training of such communities in 
emergency mobilization, disaster awareness, and risk assessment, as well as provision to 
environmental risk prevention brigades of specialized equipment and training in first aid, search 
and rescue techniques, and environmental risk monitoring.  This Activity is estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$263,000. 
 
Part B
.
Community-Level Vulnerability Reduction Action Plans
Preparation of action plans, based on the respective assessments carried out under Part A 
above, to reduce environmental risks in the communities included in said Part A.  This Activity is 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$90,800. 
 
Part C
.
Works
Carrying out of small works (such as cleaning and deepening drainage channels, planting 
trees, building retaining walls) and other activities identified in the action plans referred to in Part 
B
above.  This activity will also include additional training, inter alia,  in risk management and 
environmental management.  This Activity is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1,047,750. 
 
Page  4
-4-  
 
Part D
.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of a mid-term review and an ex-post review of the Project results and 
support for the carrying out of the audits referred to in paragraph 5.1 (b) of this Annex.  These 
Activities are estimated to cost the equivalent of US$87,750. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. The 
Recipient 
shall, 
through 
Secretaria Ejecutiva para la Prevención, Mitigación y Atención 
a
los Desastres 
(the Executive Secretariat) and 
Unidad de Coordinación del Programa de Reforma y 
Modernización del Sector Público
 (UCRESEP), pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2.2 below: 
(a) carry out the Project  with due diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with the Operational 
Manual; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as 
IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on 
the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to 
visit the Recipient’s territory for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, 
the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of 
the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the 
Project. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall, through the Executive Secretariat and UCRESEP, enter into an 
agreement, satisfactory to IDA, with the Municipality of Managua, whereby such Municipality will 
undertake to collaborate in the carrying out of the Project and the Recipient will undertake to transfer 
the proceeds of the Grant and the counterpart funds to such Municipality, all as set forth or referred 
to in this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under such agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and IDA and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such agreement of any provision thereof.  
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
3.2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant. 
Page  5
-5-  
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(in U.S. Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’                                                     
services 
 
273,500 91% 
 
(2) Training  
 
90,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Goods 
 
113,300 
 
85% 
 
(4) Works 
                          1,012,500
85% 
 
TOTAL 
 
1,489,300 
======= 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “training” includes expenditures for training 
materials and facilities and subsistence costs of trainees. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) or for goods produced in or services supplied from such territories; or 
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods if such payment 
or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2005 or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date); 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures; and 
 
(d) 
The percentages of expenditures to be financed, set forth in the table in paragraph 
4.2 above, have been established taking into account the existing taxes levied on or in respect of the 
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, as provided in subparagraph (a) (ii) above.  If 
the amount of any such taxes decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, 
increase or decrease the corresponding percentage of expenditures to be financed in such table as 
required to comply with subparagraph (a) (ii) above. 
 
Page  6
-6-  
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Director of UCRESEP 
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Project.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) consulting firms’ services and individual consultants’ 
services under contracts costing less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent each, respectively; 
(b) goods and works under contracts costing less than US$25,000 and US$150,000 equivalent each, 
respectively; and training, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars, a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain in UCRESEP a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  7
-7-  
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
5.2. 
  (a)  The Recipient, through UCRESEP, shall prepare and furnish to IDA a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Activities, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses 
of such funds; 
 
(ii)  describes physical progress in the implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned implementation of the Project ; and 
 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to IDA not later than 45 days after the end of the 
first calendar quarter after the effectiveness of this Letter Agreement, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to IDA not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or under any 
development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.  
 
Page  8
-8-  
 
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part C
:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with the 
procurement plan prepared by the Recipient and approved by IDA, and with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Page  9
-9-  
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a)  With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for works 
to be awarded in accordance with Part B.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)  With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for works 
to be awarded in accordance with Parts B.2 and B.3 above, respectively, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Recipient shall provide 
to IDA a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to IDA a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consulting firms’ services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  10
-10-  
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Selection of
 all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with the plan, 
submitted by the Recipient and approved by IDA, for selection of consultants, which plan 
includes contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and 
procedures. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms 
shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000, the terms of reference of the consultants 
shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (c) of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  11
-11-  
 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$150,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under 
the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  12
-12-  
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  13
-13-  
 
WB76939 
M:\Nicaragua\JGAGrants\JSDF - Community-Level Vulnerability Reduction Project.doc 
October 9, 2002 6:02 PM
 
