Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3487-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 2, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3487-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA  (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Municipality" means any of the 25 most highly vulnerable 
municipalities of the Borrower listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement or any other 
municipality as the Borrower and the Association may agree from time to time;
(d)
"Executive Secretariat" means the Secretariat established by the Borrower 
by virtue of Section 14 of Law No. 337, published in the Official Gazette of the 
Borrower, on April 7, 2000;  
(e)
"FISE" means the Borrower’s Social Investment Emergency Fund (Fondo de 
Inversión Social de Emergencia), as established and regulated by Decree No. 59-90 and 
related regulations of the Borrower; 
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the Borrower’s letter, dated February 13, 
2001, addressed to the Association, setting forth the monitoring indicators to be used 
in the evaluation of the Project; 
(g)
"INETER" means the Borrower’s Institute for Land Studies (Instituto 
Nicaragüense de Estudios Territoriales), as established and regulated by Law No. 311 
and Decree 120-99 of the Borrower; 
(h) 
"National System" means the Borrower’s national system for disaster 
prevention, mitigation and response, as established and regulated by the Borrower’s 
Law No. 337;
(i) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to under Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(l)
"Subprojects" means the mitigation measure subprojects to be carried out 
by FISE in the Eligible Municipalities under Part E of the Project; and
(m)
"UCRESEP" means Unidad de Coordinación del Programa de Reforma y 
Modernización del Sector Público, as established by the Borrower’s Decree No. 44-94 
(as amended by Decree No. 10-98 and Decree No. 102-2000).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2011 and ending March 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
Page  4
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Unless the Association receives written notification to the 
contrary by the Minister of Finance of the Borrower, the Technical Coordinator of 
UCRESEP (Coordinador Técnico, as mentioned in Section 13 of Decree 44-94 as amended) 
is hereby designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Executive Secretariat (with the assistance of FISE with 
respect to Part E of the Project and the assistance of INETER with respect to Parts 
B.3 and D.2 of the Project), with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above and except 
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with a manual satisfactory to the Association. In case 
of any conflict between the provisions of the Operational Manual and the ones of this 
Agreement, the ones of this Agreement shall prevail. 
(c)
The Borrower, through the Executive Secretariat, shall:
(i)
enter into an agreement with FISE, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the execution, by FISE, of Part E of the Project; 
(ii) 
enter into an agreement with INETER, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the execution, by INETER, of certain studies 
under Part B.3 of the Project and for the provision of assistance 
from INETER to the Executive Secretariat for the execution of Part 
D.2 of the Project;
(iii)
enter into an agreement with UCRESEP, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the assistance, by UCRESEP, in the procurement 
and financial management of the Project; and 
(iv) 
present a plan, acceptable to the Association, for storage, 
maintenance, distribution and utilization of all emergency 
response equipment to be purchased under Part A.2 of the Project, 
and enter into the relevant agreements with the corresponding 
agencies and members of the National System, as required by, and 
on terms acceptable to, the Association, to ensure appropriate 
usage of such emergency equipment.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the Executive 
Page  5
Secretariat, shall comply with its obligations under, and not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive, the agreements referred to in subparagraphs (i), (ii) or (iii) above or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to Section 3.01 (a) above, the Borrower shall:
(a)
include in its annual budget proposals submitted to its legislative 
branch the following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of the 
Project:
(i)
$275,000 equivalent for calendar year 2001;
(ii)
$ 1,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 2002;
(iii)
$ 1,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 2003; and
(iv)
$ 275,000 equivalent for calendar year 2004; and
(b)
advance, from the amounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, no later 
than the fifteenth day of each month, amounts sufficient to cover the counterpart 
funding requirements for the Project during such month.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provision of paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
Section 3.01 above, the Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree: 
(a) 
Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, approved, carried 
out and monitored by FISE in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in the Operational Manual, including a clearance in writing issued by FISE, prior to 
commencement of each Subproject, confirming that the Subproject is environmentally 
sound as determined by FISE’s environmental screening of such Subproject proposal; 
(b)
no physical or economic involuntary displacement (as interpreted in 
accordance with the Association’s Operational Directive (OD 4.30) shall take place as 
a consequence of the execution of the Subprojects; specifically, no person shall have, 
as a consequence of the execution of the Subprojects, his or her: (i) right, title or 
interest in any house or any other fixed or movable goods acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (ii) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected; 
(c)
no Subproject may involve any of the activities listed under Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and 
(d)
if any Subproject affects indigenous people, the Borrower, through FISE, 
shall ensure that such people shall be allowed to have informed participation with 
regard to the design and implementation of such Subproject, participate systematically 
in the monitoring and evaluation thereof and, in general, derive benefits from such 
Subproject.
Section 3.05. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the Borrower 
shall provide and maintain throughout the execution of the Project and after its 
completion, the building located at kilometer 6.5, south road (carretera sur, i.e., 
carretera Panamericana), west side (lado oeste), Managüa, Nicaragüa -or any other 
building acceptable to the Association- to house the Executive Secretariat’s 
headquarters.
Section 3.06. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the Borrower 
shall provide FISE with the required resources (including staff in adequate numbers 
and with the necessary qualifications) to, in the view of the Association, carry out 
Part E of the Project (including the environmental screening of Subprojects).
Section 3.07. Notwithstanding and without limitation to the provisions of 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  6
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August and February each year during Project 
implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September and March each year during 
Project implementation, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation and the sustainability of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish within UCRESEP, and thereafter 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested (including, as 
part of the information to be provided in each such report, a 
management letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls); 
(iii)
ensure that no restrictions for the signing and issuance of said 
opinion and report are imposed on said auditors; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  7
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
February 15, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said 
report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  8
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that Law No. 337 of the Borrower 
(referred to in Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement) shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect, in 
the opinion of the Association, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 above shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been submitted to the Association;
(b)
the financial management system mentioned in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, has been established within UCRESEP; 
(c)
an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into 
between the Executive Secretariat and FISE for the execution, by FISE, of Part E of 
the Project; 
(d) 
an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into 
between the Executive Secretariat and INETER for the execution, by INETER, of certain 
studies under Part B.3 of the Project and for the provision of assistance from INETER 
to the Executive Secretariat for the execution of Part D.2 of the Project; 
(e)
an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into 
between the Executive Secretariat and UCRESEP for the assistance, by UCRESEP, in the 
procurement and financial management of the Project; and
(f)
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, have been appointed to carry our the audits referred to in said Section.
Section 6.02. The date July 31, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Edificio Nuevo MIFIN
Fte. a la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Facsimile:  
505-222-3033
Page  9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Leopoldo Navarro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a) Works under
500,000
85% of local
Part A.1(h)
expenditures
of the Project
(b) Works other than
10,000
85% of local
for Part A. 1 (h) of 
expenditures
the Project (except 
as covered by
Category 5 below)
(2)
(a) Goods under Part B.3
70,000
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(b) Goods under Part 
560,000
100% of foreign
Page  10
A.2 of the Project
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(c) Goods other than for 
1,630,000
100% of foreign
Parts B.3 and A.2 of
expenditures and
the Project (except
85% of local
as covered by
expenditures
Category 6 below)
(3)
(a)
Consultants’ services
560,000
100% 
under Part B.3
of the Project
(b) Consultants’ services
60,000
100%
under Part A.1 (h)
of the Project
(c) Consultants’ services
3,210,000
100%
other than for Parts B.3 
and A.1(h) of  the Project
(except as  covered by 
Categories 4, 5 or 6 below;
includes audits)
(4)
Training
1,160,000
100%
(5)
Goods, works
1,980,000
85%
and services financed
under Subprojects
(6)
Incremental operating 
400,000
60% until withdrawals
costs
under this Category
have reached an 
aggregate amount
equivalent to SDR
$200,000; 40% until
withdrawals under this
Category have reached
an aggregate amount
equivalent to SDR 
320,000; and 25%
thereafter
(7)
Unallocated
360,000
_________
TOTAL
10,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
"Incremental operating costs" means reasonable expenditures (as such 
reasonability shall be determined by the Association) for costs associated with the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, such as: (i) maintenance of equipment; (ii) 
electricity, phone and other utility expenses; (iii) office supplies; and (iv) 
salaries of staff of the Executive Secretariat; and
(d)
"Training" means reasonable expenditures incurred in the carrying out of 
workshops, conferences, seminars, courses and study tours, as well as expenses 
(including travel and per diem) related to training attendance, as such expenditures 
shall be submitted for prior approval by the Association in the annual operative plan 
described in the Operational Manual.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
Page  11
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
390,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within 
twelve months before that date but in no case prior to November 30, 2000; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under disbursement categories 2 (a) and 3 
(a) above, unless an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the execution 
of these Parts of the Project, showing a detailed description and phasing of 
sub-activities and tasks, and indicating the agencies’ and sub-departments of the 
Borrower responsible for each activity, has been submitted to the Association; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under disbursement category 2 (b) above, 
unless the Borrower has presented a plan, acceptable to the Association, for storage, 
maintenance, distribution and utilization of all emergency response equipment and has 
entered into the relevant agreements with the corresponding agencies and members of 
the National System, as required by, and on terms acceptable to, the Association, to 
ensure appropriate usage of the emergency equipment to be purchased under Part A.2 of 
the Project;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under disbursement categories 1 (a) and 3 
(b) above, unless the Borrower has submitted evidence of arrangements, satisfactory to 
the Association, of ownership or long-term leasehold by the Executive Secretariat of 
the building which will house the Executive Secretariat’s headquarters; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures under disbursement category (5) above, 
unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association, and the Association is satisfied 
with, the engineering and architecture designs, cost estimates and environmental 
procedures for standard mitigation Subprojects to be carried out under this Part E of 
the Project, and the procedures for economic and environmental analysis and the terms 
of reference to be applied in the case of non-standard mitigation Subprojects (as such 
standard and non-standard mitigation Subprojects are defined in the Operational 
Manual).
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods and works costing less than 
$150,000 per contract; (b) consulting services provided by firms costing less than 
$100,000 per contract; (c) consulting services provided individuals costing less than 
$50,000 per contract; (d) Subproject expenses; (e) Training expenditures; and (f) 
expenditures for Incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5.
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the Credit Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association for deposit into the Credit Account, an amount equal to the amount 
so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Association.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
Page  12
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Page  13
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $1,250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  14
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report, provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,600,000.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower’s disaster management 
capacity by: (a) strengthening institutional capacity in disaster prevention, 
preparedness and response at the national level; (b) building institutional capacity 
to program disaster mitigation at the national level; (c) promoting disaster awareness 
in society; (d) building local capacity to manage disaster emergencies, assess risk 
and identify mitigation measures; and (e) implementing mitigation measures at the 
local level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity for disaster management
1.
Building of capacity within the Executive Secretariat to coordinate the National 
System by carrying out, inter alia, the following activities: (a) coordination of 
legal aspects in the assignment of institutional responsibilities within the National 
System; (b) design and setting up of a national disaster fund; (c) design and 
development of a liaison program to participate in disaster management for the 
American continent; (d) design and development of a strategy to obtain external 
financing for the National System; (e) definition of standards and procedures 
(including the elaboration and distribution of operational manuals) for disaster 
management, for evaluation of construction codes currently observed in the Borrower’s 
territory and for maintenance and evaluation of the National System’s emergency 
response equipment and supplies; (f) development of data bases regarding, and 
information systems for management of, disaster management information; (g) training 
of Executive Secretariat staff on disaster management procedures, operations and 
systems; and (h) rehabilitation of the building housing the Executive Secretariat’s 
headquarters, establishment of an emergency operations center and training of 
Borrower’s officers in the operation of such emergency operations center and in the 
use and maintenance of the equipment therefor.
2.
Design of a national emergency response plan, including the preparation of 
procedural guides defining responsibilities and actions to be taken upon an emergency 
by staff of the different institutions within the National System, the inclusion of 
those responsibilities in inter-governmental agreements among different agencies of 
the Borrower, the acquisition of needed emergency equipment, and the carrying out of 
emergency simulations at the national level.
Page  16
Part B: 
Development of a national mitigation program and strategy
1.
Design of an information management system linking key technical agencies of the 
National System, including the provision of equipment and training to staff of the 
relevant agencies of the Borrower.
2.
Development of a national policy for involuntary resettlement in case of risk of 
natural disasters.
3.
Carrying out of studies and pilot assessment activities to identify long-term 
disaster mitigation needs and to test methodologies for meeting such needs, including, 
inter alia, with respect to watershed vulnerability, building codes and seismic 
vulnerability of the city of Managua. 
4.
Design of a long-term national disaster mitigation program.
5.
Building of technical capacity within INETER to support vulnerability analyses, 
including those to be carried out under Part D.2 of the Project.
Part C:
Building disaster prevention awareness into society
1
Updating of formal education curricula on disasters by, for example, updating 
methodological guides for teachers, providing training for teachers, and designing and 
producing training materials related to disaster prevention.
2.
Design and implementation of a communications strategy to guide the 
implementation of periodic public awareness programs, and production and dissemination 
of the materials related to such programs.
3.
Strengthening of disaster awareness in the communications media through the 
production and dissemination of information on risk analysis, the training of 
journalists and communications specialists in concepts related to disaster management, 
and the review and reform of the education curricula for communications professionals.
Part D: 
Strengthening local capacity for disaster risk management
1.
Creation and maintenance of the local committees established under Law No. 337 
of the Borrower, including the provision to such committees of equipment and training 
in emergency response.
2.
Strengthening of planning and technical capacity for disaster mitigation and 
prevention through the carrying out of hazard and vulnerability assessments and the 
preparation of long-term development plans (identifying, inter alia, areas at risk and 
appropriate land uses) for the Eligible Municipalities.
Part E:
Implementation of local vulnerability reduction measures
Carrying out of mitigation measure subprojects in Eligible Municipalities, such 
as retrofitting schools and hospitals; identifying high risk areas and posting 
warnings or barriers to prevent unsuitable occupation; providing a system for 
identifying refuges, unsafe areas and escape routes; preventing settlements in 
unpopulated high risk areas through the creation of parks and sport facilities in 
those areas; controlling landslides and erosion through reforestation programs and the 
construction of retaining walls and terracing; installation of waste water and storm 
water drainage systems in high density areas and roadways subject to erosion or 
flooding; removing sediment deposits originated in earlier disasters; and carrying out 
protective works, reinforcing and retrofitting vital infrastructure (roads, bridges, 
cross walks and water supply and energy systems).
Part F:
Project Management
 
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to the Executive 
Secretariat, UCRESEP and FISE, for the general management and coordination of the 
Project, the financial management of the Project and the carrying out of the 
Subprojects, respectively.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (a) 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. To the extent practicable, 
contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract or bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $265,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract or bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $390,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract (including 
works under Part E of the Project), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  18
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part B hereof and the 
first two contracts procured pursuant to Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured pursuant to Part C.2 
hereof and the first two contracts procured pursuant to part C.3 hereof, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received, a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the following 
Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection/ Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assignments of a standard or routine nature such as, inter alia, 
auditing or engineering design of non complex works estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract and up to an aggregate amount of $210,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of: (a) paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines and paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto; or (b) 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines and paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  19
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference of the 
consulting firms shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Non-Participating Countries and Non-Eligible Countries
Set forth below are: (i) the list of countries which do not meet the 
requirements to be considered Participating Countries as referred to in Section 2.01 
(12) of the General Conditions (Non-Participating Countries); and (ii) the list of 
countries which are not members of the Association and therefore are also not eligible 
for participating in procurement financed by the Association, as the case may be 
(Non-Eligible Countries).
Non-Participating Countries 
·
The Bahamas
·
Bahrain
·
Barbados
·
Brunei Darussalam
·
Cyprus
·
Oman
·
Qatar
·
Singapore
·
United Arab Emirates
Non-Eligible Countries
·
Andorra
·
Cuba
·
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea)
·
Liechtenstein
·
Monaco
·
Nauru
·
San Marino
·
Tuvalu
SCHEDULE 4
Page  20
Subprojects Negative List
1.
Non-investment activities, including, inter alia: (i) mere consumption or 
transfer of ownership; (ii) financing of debts and liabilities; (iii) purchase or 
rental of land; (iv) provision of welfare or other social assistance; and (v) 
containment or extinguishment of existing fires.
2.
Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
3.
Activities affecting natural protected areas recognized by central, 
departmental, regional or municipal governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than 
to rehabilitate areas damaged by a previous natural disaster. 
4.
Land reclamation (i.e., drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to 
create land).
5.
Land clearance and leveling (when affecting natural habitats and natural land 
contours, natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most 
of the original plant and animal species are still present), except for clearing of 
debris resulting from an emergency.
6.
Hazardous waste management and disposal, as well as manufacture, transport and 
use of pesticides and other hazardous and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of 
solvents, degreasing materials, paints, fuels and the like used during construction).
7.
River training (i.e., realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing river 
channel, or excavation of a new river channel).
8.
Activities involving industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates.
9.
New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads (major means:  
changing the road category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to 
primary; adding new lanes; or changing road surface).
10.
New large-scale irrigation, drainage or flood control works.
11.
(a)
Activities which, when being carried out, would affect, or involve the 
use of, water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow 
through or are bordered by countries other than Nicaragua, in such a manner as to in 
any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said 
countries; and (b) activities involving the installation or construction of facilities 
which, when operated after their construction or installation, would affect, or 
involve the use of water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) 
which flow through or are bordered by countries other than Nicaragua, in such a manner 
as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or 
bordering said countries (unless such bordering countries have formally expressed in 
writing to the Association and to Nicaragua their no-objection to the activities 
referred to in (a) or (b) herein).
12.
Activities relating to forestry production.
13.
Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and harbors.
14.
Aquaculture and mariculture activities.
15.
River basin development activities.
16.
Development of new or expansion of existing thermal power and hydropower 
facilities.
17.
Activities of any type classifiable as category A for environmental purposes 
pursuant to Annex B of the Association’s December 1998 policy document entitled Good 
Practices (GP) 4.01.
18.
Conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats (as defined in the 
Association’s September 1995 Operational Policy (OP) 4.04, Annex A, on natural 
habitats).
Page  21
SCHEDULE 5
Eligible Municipalities
DEPARTMENT
MUNICIPALITY
1.
RIVAS
San Juan del Sur
2.
CHINANDEGA
Chinandega
3.
ESTELI
Esteli
4.
RIVAS
Tola
5.
ESTELI
Condega
6.
RIVAS
Altagracia
7.
LEON
Nagarote
8.
ESTELI
Pueblo Nuevo
9.
CARAZO
Diriamba
10.
CHINANDEGA
Posoltega
11.
CARAZO
Jinotepe
12.
RIO SAN JUAN
San Carlos
13.
JINOTEGA
Jinotega
14.
CHINANDEGA
El Realejo
15.
MATAGALPA
Ciudad Dario
16.
NUEVA SEGOVIA
Dipilto
17.
CHINANDEGA
El Viejo
18.
MANAGUA
Tipitapa
19.
LEON
Telica
20.
ESTELI
San Juan de Limay
21.
GRANADA
Granada
22.
CHINANDEGA
Chichigalpa
23.
LEON
Leon
24.
ESTELI
La Trinidad
25.
LEON
La Paz Centro
