                                          Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                         Report No: ICR00001015




                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-34870 IDA-3487A TF051374)



                                             ON A

                                            CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLIONS
                              (US$ 16.05 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                             FOR A

               NATURAL DISASTER VULNERABILITY REDUCTION PROJECT



                                        August 27, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panamá Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective 06/04/2009)

                                 Currency Unit = Córdobas
                                 Córdobas 1.00 = US$ 0.05
                                 US$ 1.00 = [19.79 NIO ]


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL           Adaptable Program Loan
BRIMUR        Municipal Response Brigades
CAPRA         Central American Probabilistic Risk Assessment
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEPREDENAC    Central American Center for the Coordination of Disaster Prevention
CIGEO         Center for Geophysical Research
CPPR          Country Portfolio Performance Review
CODE/EOC      Emergency Operations Center
DRM           Disaster Risk Management
EDAN          Needs Assessment Information Subsystem
FISE          Fund for Social Investments
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
INETER        National Institute for Territorial Studies
ISR           Implementation Status Report
JSDF          Japanese Social Development Fund
MAGFOR        Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MARENA        Ministry of Environment and Renewable Resources
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MTI           Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PDO           Project Development Objective
QAG           Quality Assessment Group
RAAN          North Atlantic Autonomous Region
RAAS          South Atlantic Autonomous Region
SE-SINAPRED   Executive Secretariat, National Disaster Prevention System
SIGER         Information System on Risk Management
SINAPRED      National Disaster Prevention System
UCRESEP       Coordination Unit for the Public Sector Reform and Modernization Program
UNISDR        United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction



                                Vice President: Pamela Cox
                              Country Director: Laura Frigenti
                               Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
                          Project Team Leader: Joaquin Toro
                             ICR Team Leader: Nara C. Meli
                                    NICARAGUA
                 NATURAL DISASTER VULNERABILITY REDUCTION PROJECT




                                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................................14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes .....................................................................................18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance....................................................................................18
6. Lessons Learned......................................................................................................................................20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Institutions/Partners......................................21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................................................23
Annex 3. Lessons Learned from Ex-Post Evaluation (Borrower) ..............................................................32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...........................................35
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................................37
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................................................39
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Natural Disaster
Country:                Nicaragua               Project Name:
                                                                          Vulnerability Reduction
                                                                          IDA-34870,IDA-
Project ID:             P064916                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          3487A,TF-51374
ICR Date:               08/28/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NICARAGUA
Original Total
                        XDR 10.5M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 10.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 10.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretaria Ejecutiva del SINAPRED
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/29/1999     Effectiveness:                               10/16/2001
Appraisal:            01/08/2001     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/03/2001     Mid-term Review:                             01/26/2004
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2005        02/28/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     67                  67
Other social services                                                 7                      7
Sub-national government administration                                26                  26


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                         33                  33
Natural disaster management                                           67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Laura Frigenti                       D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Guang Zhe Chen                       Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:       Jose C. Joaquin Toro Landivar        Tova M. Solo
ICR Team Leader:           Jose C. Joaquin Toro Landivar
ICR Primary Author:        Nara C. Meli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The development objective is to improve Nicaragua's disaster management capacity by:
  (a) strengthening institutional capability in disaster management at the national level;
  (b) building institutional capacity for disaster mitigation at the national level;
  (c) promoting disaster awareness and "preventive thinking" through public sector
education and awareness programs;
  (d) building local capacity to manage disaster emergencies, to assess risk and to
identify mitigation measures; and


                                                ii
    (e) implementing vulnerability reduction and mitigation measures at the local level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
-

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                 Number of international projects in disaster management, for which the SE-
Indicator 1 :
                 SINAPRED is the executing agency
Value
quantitative or 0                        2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2001                 02/28/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Square meters of SINAPRED (HQ), EOC, and Civil Defense buildings designed
Indicator 2 :
                and constructed
Value
                                         1565 m2 designed
quantitative or 0 design, 0 construction
                                         and constructed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2001                 02/28/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of studies completed, disseminated and in use
Value
quantitative or 0                        4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2001                 02/28/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Changes to the curriculum - formal education (pre-school, primary, secondary)
Indicator 4 :
                and in communications programs (university level)
                                         Changes to the
                                         curriculum in
Value
                                         formal education
quantitative or none
                                         and in
Qualitative)
                                         communications
                                         studies
Date achieved 10/31/2001                 02/28/2009
Comments
(incl. %



                                              iii
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
  Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Fulfillment of SE's coordinating role vis-a-vis SINAPRED
Value
(quantitative   0                        All roles fulfilled
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2001                 02/28/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                             IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1    06/26/2001         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
  2    12/21/2001         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      1.00
  3    05/16/2002         Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     1.00
  4    12/16/2002         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      1.50
  5    01/17/2003         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      1.71
  6    06/16/2003         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.53
  7    12/17/2003         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      3.21
  8    06/10/2004         Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     4.07
  9    12/14/2004         Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     4.99
 10    03/19/2005     Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory               5.66
 11    11/04/2005     Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      9.06
 12    04/29/2006     Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             10.98
 13    10/19/2006     Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             11.89
 14    02/27/2007         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    12.36
 15    10/01/2007         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    12.99
 16    04/17/2008         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    14.12
 17    11/11/2008         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    15.10


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Nicaragua's economic development is often negatively affected by devastating natural
disasters which set back the country's social and economic progress. Its geographic location
makes it vulnerable to hurricanes, droughts and fires, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, and
particularly severe earthquakes. Among Central American countries, Nicaragua stands out in
both the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes. On average, between 1970 and 2000
annual deaths due to disasters in Nicaragua amounted to approximately three thousand, with the
number of persons injured or left homeless running up to some six thousand per year, according
to the International Red Cross figures. Each disaster has left the country more vulnerable to the
next round of natural catastrophes. Based on data from the second half of the 20th century, the
International Institute for Advanced Systems Analysis estimated that Nicaragua "should expect
to lose approximately 0.4% of capital stock, that is US$20 million annually from natural
catastrophes, with possible extreme events reaching US$800 million in direct losses," assuming
that no mitigation measures are undertaken. Following Hurricane Mitch in 1998, national
vulnerability to natural disasters was seen as fundamental to all sector development issues.

2.      Hurricane Mitch led the Bank, other international organizations, donors, and Central
American governments, to look at disasters differently. It became clear that many of the victims
suffered because of poor land-use planning, construction standards and institutional response by
all levels of government. As a result of the damage Mitch caused all actors were pushed to search
for ways to mitigate the impact of future disasters by building institutional mitigation and
response capacity.

3.      Prior to 2000, Nicaragua had some juridical and operational instruments, mainly for
disasters response, such as the Civil Defense Law, the National Commission of Central
American Center for the Coordination of Disaster Prevention (CEPREDENAC), the National
Urban System, and building codes, etc. However, the country had no national system for disaster
risk management or a coordinating agency to promote long term plans for disaster prevention
and emergency response. As illustrated by the ravaging effects of Hurricane Mitch, Nicaragua
had no disaster mitigation programs or long term plans, only limited public awareness of
disasters and how to prevent them, no local emergency preparedness, no hazard analyses or
vulnerability assessments, and no system for financing local disaster mitigation measures.

4.      The passage of Mitch prompted the Government to take decisive measures to reduce
Nicaragua's vulnerability to adverse natural events. To deal with the short term impact, the
Government, with help from the International Development Association (IDA), identified
specific critical areas of focus, and carried out priority mitigation measures through two on-going
projects implemented by FISE (Social Investment Fund project) and INIFOM (Instituto
Nicaraguense de Fomento Municipal). For the long term, the Nicaraguan Government decided to
develop a comprehensive national disaster risk management system, thereby introducing a
preventive approach to disasters. With help from the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) and the Governments of Spain and Colombia, a task force headed by the Vice President

                                                1
designed a plan for a National System for Disaster Prevention, Mitigation and Response. The
plan led to the passage of Law 337 of 2000, published in the National Gazette April 4, 2000
which created the Sistema Nacional para la Prevención, Mitigación y Atención a los Desastres
(hereafter "SINAPRED" or the System). The System links various ministries (such as Education,
Agriculture and Forestry, Environment, Transportation and Infrastructure, etc) in the
coordination of disaster risk management in the country. Heading this coordination effort is the
Executive Secretariat for Disaster Prevention, Mitigation and Response (hereafter "SE-
SINAPRED" or the Secretariat), lodged within the Office of the President. The regulatory
framework required to apply and execute Law 337 was established through Decree 53/2000,
which became effective on June 28, 2000. At the same time, the detailed responsibilities of all
entities comprising the National System were assigned officially through Decree 98/2000
(effective October 5, 2000).

5.      Among the priority actions identified under the Law 337, the SE-SINAPRED is charged
with: a) making the System operational and ensuring appropriate staffing of the Secretariat and
of member institutions, which must in each case name a representative to liaise with SE-
SINAPRED; b) preparing and activating a National Emergency Plan; clarifying policies,
procedures and standards to be applied; and training System members in the Plan and,
specifically, in their respective roles in disaster response, prevention and mitigation; c)
establishing and maintaining a data base, supported by Geographical Information Systems (GIS),
relevant to disaster management, including information on hazard and vulnerability assessments,
as well as on programs, projects and actions relevant to disaster prevention, mitigation and
response and; d) establishing and coordinating working committees on sector and territorial
issues to support disaster prevention and mitigation through national institutions and local
governments respectively.

Rationale for Bank Engagement

6.     The Hurricane Emergency Project (P064084), which assisted Nicaragua post-Mitch,
paved the way for a radical paradigm shift in the Bank's approach to disaster risk management,
which went from a reactive perspective to an ex-ante one, focusing on vulnerability reduction.
Along with Honduras, this was the Bank's first Natural Disaster and Vulnerability Reduction
(NDVR) project.

7.      The Bank brought technical expertise from other countries and experiences from
involvement with other disaster management projects to help the Nicaraguan government orient
its policies and investments. In addition, IDA support fomented overlap and transference of
disaster concerns into other IDA supported projects related to themes of local development and
environmental protection.

8.     At the time of Hurricane Mitch, the Bank was financing three on-going projects in the
environmental and urban sectors and had two more in preparation. In response to Mitch, the
Bank reallocated investment funds from two existing operations (PROTIERRA, and an Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit) to finance the fast-disbursing Hurricane Emergency Project
(P064084). A team of disaster experts also visited the country and identified a series of small-
scale emergency investments designed to contain the damage of Mitch and prevent greater

                                               2
flooding and landslide damage at local levels. The FISE (Social Investment Fund project) credit
was restructured to carry out US$4 million in small-scale mitigation works.

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)

9.     The 1998-2002 CAS for Nicaragua focused on three core themes: (i) private sector
development; (ii) rural sector development and environmental protection; and (iii) development
of human capital and poverty alleviation.

10.     The NDVRP responded to each of these as follows:
  (i)   Insofar as the frequency of catastrophic natural events in Nicaragua discourages private
        sector investment and hampers its growth, measures taken to reduce the adverse impact
        of catastrophic events contribute to a more conducive environment for private sector
        development.
  (ii) Rural development is also set back whenever disasters occur. Hurricane Mitch, for
        example, dealt a major blow to agricultural lands, damaging export crops, such as
        bananas, sugar and the production of basic grains. Besides providing planning tools and
        financing mitigation measures to protect lives and property in vulnerable communities of
        rural municipalities, the NDVRP also financed an initiative specifically focused on rural
        sector development and on environmental protection.
  (iii) Poor communities are most vulnerable to disasters. The disaster mitigation measures
        supported by NDVRP helped to alleviate the risk of accelerated poverty in communities
        by reducing their vulnerability.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

11.      The original PDO was to improve Nicaragua's disaster management capacity by: (a)
strengthening institutional capacities in disaster management at the national level; (b) building
institutional capacity for disaster mitigation at the national level; (c) promoting disaster
awareness and "preventive thinking" through public sector education and awareness programs;
(d) building local capacity to manage disaster emergencies, to assess risk and identify mitigation
measures; and (e) implementing vulnerability reduction and mitigation measures at the local
level.

12.     Key indicators (listed in Annex 2) were established in order to monitor: (a) increased
capacity of SINAPRED in performing its assigned functions and responsibilities (with all costs
covered by the National Government); (b) improved technical knowledge and increased local
government capability for disaster management; and (c) reduced vulnerability of the population
in highly vulnerable municipalities.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project Development Objective and Key Indicators were not revised.




                                                3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     Given the pattern of disasters triggered by natural events in Nicaragua, groups at risk
occupy marginal urban settlements and rural communities, and are poor. According to the PAD,
the target population constituted "Populations at risk from natural disasters". The selection
process used to identify highly vulnerable municipalities included a poverty analysis as well as
hazard risk mapping (see Annex 13/ PAD, p. 12.). The project directly benefitted the SE-
SINAPRED, the Nicaraguan Institute for Territorial Studies (INETER), the Army's Civil
Defense (from here Civil Defense), the Ministry of Education and teachers trained, and the
selected municipalities. Indirectly, the targeted beneficiaries were the populations exposed to
natural hazards.

1.5 Original Components (Table taken from PAD p.10)

Components                                                Indicative   % of      Bank      % of Bank
                                                            Cost       Total   Financing   Financing
A. Strengthening of National System Capacity for             4.82       30        3.59        26.2
Institutional Disaster Management
B. Development of National Mitigation Program and           1.65       10.3       1.5        11.1
Management
C. Building Public Awareness of Disaster Prevention         0.97         6       0.88         6.5
D. Strengthening Local Capacity for Disaster Risk           3.69        23       3.34        24.7
Management
E. Implementation of Local Vulnerability Reduction          4.16       25.9      3.56        26.4
F. Project Financial Management                             0.76        4.7      0.63         4.7
Total Project Costs                                         16.05      100       13.5        100

1.6 Revised Components.

No components were revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The closing date of the project was extended 5 times, for the cumulative amount of 4 years as
described in Section 2.2.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry: Moderately satisfactory



                                                      4
Background Analysis

14.     The project was designed to support the National Plan for Risk Reduction, part of the
Government's long term strategy to prioritize risk management. The National Plan itself
identified five sector needs.

· Need for institutional coordination for disaster prevention, preparedness, and response. The
  recent establishment of SE-SINAPRED meant that it needed strong capacity building to
  enable it to fulfill its mandate.

· Need for a national disaster mitigation program and strategy. Nicaragua had no disaster
  mitigation (i.e. risk identification, management, reduction, transfer) programs, and sector
  institutions such as INETER (Institute for Research on Earth Sciences), MAGFOR (Ministry
  of Agriculture and Forestry), MTI (Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure) and
  MARENA (Ministry of Environment and Renewable Resources) had limited technical
  capacity to forecast, gather, analyze and share information on natural hazards and
  vulnerability.

· Need to increase public awareness of disaster prevention. A "culture of prevention" was
  largely absent from the formal education system and from the communication media.

· Need to carry out emergency preparedness, hazard analysis, and vulnerability assessments at
  local levels. Due to the lack of continuing growth of technical capacity to evaluate risks and to
  specify appropriate disaster countermeasures, local Governments have not yet been able to
  take the required steps to identify areas at risk, prevent the growth of settlements, or
  encourage adequate land-use and building standards.

· Need for disaster mitigation measures at the local level. Nicaragua's municipalities depend on
  national budget transfers and on national financial programs to finance investments.
  Investment financing generally conforms to sector programs set by line Ministries, and at the
  time of appraisal, did not include disaster mitigation.

Assessment of Project Design

15.      The Bank team designed a comprehensive and well-targeted project that introduced a
`Culture of Prevention' in Nicaragua, while reducing vulnerability and building institutional
capacity at the municipal and national levels and through an educational initiative. The project
was also holistic in its approach at the governance level: the desire to work beyond national
institutions was strong, as approximately half of the project's funds were directed to
strengthening capacity and reducing vulnerability at the local level. Furthermore, the project
showed its willingness to support an existing (although very young) institution in the country,
providing SE-SINAPRED a chance to strengthen itself. However, in the end it proved too much
for the institution to execute the project without more capacity- building support.

                                                5
16.         In addition, three strategic choices were made (see PAD Section B.3):

           (i) The decision to support a relatively short (three year) project left open the possibility
                of a follow-on operation. In line with this, the NVRDP called for development of
                plans and studies which could lead to future activities, or projects, and for an
                evaluation of the Secretariat's performance at the beginning of the final year of the
                project. In hindsight, the project's comprehensive approach (including the large
                number of components, subcomponents, and working at different levels in the
                country) would have benefited from a longer timeframe.
           (ii) The project was designed to complement the work of other donors1, and was based on
                a careful review of DRM technical assistance planned for or provided to the country.
                The operation was well-coordinated with other donors, and an agreement including the
                United Nations Development Program (UNDP), US Agency for International
                Development (USAID), and Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) determined the
                municipality of Managua (one of Nicaragua's most vulnerable municipalities) would
                be served better under a separate project, focusing on community-managed
                vulnerability reduction. This project gained the support of the Japanese government,
                which designed a grant, modeled on the NVDRP, for the municipality of Managua.
                The grant was attached to the project, and yielded very good results. (See Section 2.2)
           (iii) In order to assess the most vulnerable communities in the country, the NDVRP
                followed a careful study of comparative vulnerability among Nicaragua's 152
                municipalities, which was carried out by the Bank in association with Nicaraguan
                institutions, including the Instituto Nicaraguense de Estudios Territorales (INETER)
                and the Instituto Nicaraguense de Fomento Municipal (INIFOM). It also carried out an
                assessment of the institutional capacity of the institutional members of SINAPRED.
                While a key objective is to cover all the municipalities in the country in terms of
                emergency preparedness and response, the more costly prevention and mitigation
                activities initially focused on the country's twenty five most vulnerable municipalities.
                This pilot approach is a good way to test the receptiveness of the municipalities and
                the development of the works.

17.     Despite these strategic choices and in-depth background analysis, it must be noted that
disaster risk management encompassing prevention measures was a new approach both for the
Nicaraguan government and the World Bank2. There were no examples of best practices from
other vulnerability reduction projects to draw from within the Bank, which could explain the
maladapted scope of the project to the planned timeframe.

Implementing Agency Capacity



1
    ASDI, GTZ provided assistance on early warning systems; NOAA, NWS, OFDA and USGS assisted on hazard mapping;
    COSUDE, the Government of Norway, the Red Cross and PAHO assisted on disaster reconstruction; UNDP assisted on legal
    frameworks.

2
    This project was begun in 2001, well before the 2006 IEG Evaluation of World Bank Assistance for Natural Disasters which did
    not include any recommendations for mitigation.

                                                                6
In hindsight, project design underestimated the initial challenges of dealing with a new agency,
and therefore had an ambitious timeframe and scope. The Bank recognized SE-SINAPRED's
weak capacity on financial management and procurement matters, and as such they were
assigned to UCRESEP, the Coordination Unit for the Public Sector Reform and Modernization
Program3. Implementation under SE-SINAPRED also suffered from low disbursement rates,
caused by high rotation of staff (at administrative and managerial levels), poor knowledge
transfer to incoming staff, and weak leadership. This led to the creation of a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) to aid the implementation progress (See Section 2.2). The PAD mentions the desire
to strengthen SE-SINAPRED while it is still a new institution, while leaving open the possibility
of a follow-on operation. But the scope of the project was not designed as such. Instead, SE-
SINAPRED was put in charge of implementation at the same time as it was being strengthened,
which slowed implementation and created significant delays.

Assessment of Sustainability and Risks

18.        Sustainability was to be determined according to two factors:

               i.  The successful mainstreaming of disaster (i.e. risk management) awareness
               concerns into the operations of Ministries and other public and private institutions.
               ii. The ability of the System to operate during and beyond the next two presidential
               administrations.

ICR Assessment:

19.     The project successfully contributed to the mainstreaming of DRM in key ministries such
as the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, INETER,
and Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure. DRM was absent from public policy before
the project.

20.     The National System was developed in 1999, under Arnoldo Alemán's administration
and SE-SINAPRED survived the changes of administration from Alemán, to Enrique Bolaños,
and to Daniel Ortega. While it is difficult to predict what the next presidential administration will
bring, the inclusion of a line for SINAPRED and SE-SINAPRED in the national budget shows
that the system has gained considerable political weight, and that SE-SINAPRED is seen as a
regular ministry. Another positive manifestation of sustainability is the evidence that
coordination between institutions has improved substantially, with new initiatives in DRM
stemming from the pilot (see Annex 6).

21.     It is also important to note that the System itself has been consolidated through the
project. The ministers and institutions within the System now have clearer roles and
responsibilities with regards to disaster risk reduction. For example, in the Ministry of Education,
DRM was integrated in public schools' curricula; in the Ministry of Environment, watershed


3
    UCRESEP was an agency with Bank procurement and financial certification located in the Vice Presidency (as was SE-
    SINAPRED.


                                                               7
management is being examined from the DRM perspective; and INETER has better tools for
hazard mapping.

22.     Furthermore, SINAPRED and SE-SINAPRED have shown that coordination during
large, medium and small disasters has improved. Hurricane Felix demonstrated this improved
coordination between institutions, regional governments, international organizations and civil
society. Another example is how SE-SINAPRED led the coordination during the Managua
floods and floods resulting from Tropical Storm Alma, in May 2008.

Risks

23.     The overall risk for the project was rated as Substantial by the task team, in recognition
of the possible lack of ownership and commitment to implement the Disaster Risk Management
agenda.

ICR Assessment:

24.    The risky nature of the project was well-identified, which was evident when some of the
risks materialized: (i) nearly all the trained staff left the Secretariat, during the life of the project,
and re-training was not consistently organized; and (ii) there was limited capacity in the SE-
SINAPRED to fulfill its mandate within the project's original timeframe.

25.      The political context in Nicaragua is a major factor influencing the effectiveness of most
Bank operations in the country. In this project it was manifest in two aspects. First is substantial
staff turnover: From one administration to another (such as from Bolaños to Ortega), entire
institutions are drained of their staff, new casts are put in place, and training is not always
systematic upon assuming job functions. Second is discontinuity in policy priorities; that is,
financing of certain activities may get abruptly interrupted or redirected, depending on the new
administration's preference. This was the case for the national disaster awareness campaign
prepared under the project, which was ended following the Bolaños administration.

2.2 Implementation

26.      As mentioned above, the NDVR project was designed at a time where there was no basis
for best practice for disaster risk management, as it was the first (along with Honduras NDVRP)
of its kind in the Bank. This made implementation challenging because the design was ambitious
and didn't take into account the challenges in the country, including working with a new
institution (SE-SINAPRED), as well as taking disaster management in a different direction.

27.    The NDVRP was appraised in March 2001, and approved by the Board in April 2001 and
declared effective in October of the same year. After meeting disbursement goals the first year,
the project slipped behind showing serious lags such that by 2004 the Country Portfolio
Performance Review (CPPR) reported that after 30 months of implementation, only 27% of
funds had been disbursed (at the time, the closing date was still the original March 31, 2005).




                                                    8
28.     Slow disbursement began to threaten the continuity of the project, and faced with the risk
of closing the project and cancelling 70% of the funding, the Bank assisted with the creation of
an external Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in August of 2004. This decision was also based on
the fact that SE-SINAPRED had a high staff turnover at managerial levels, which was hampering
implementation progress.

29.     Additionally, in March 2005, the Bank team chose to grant (when requested by the
Borrower) project extensions limited to six months at a time, and increased its supervision within
the country, to maintain pressure on the Borrower. These actions drastically improved
disbursements between 2005 and February 2007, where the project disbursed close to 50% of the
total credit amount. A final two year extension until February 2009 saw the disbursement of the
remaining 20% in 24 months.




30.     SE-SINAPRED fully assumed all executing responsibilities from the PCU in 20074, and
ran into difficulties in hiring qualified staff, due to the limits imposed on civil servants' salaries5.
This temporarily translated into longer processing times for procurement activities and financial
management reports, as SE-SINAPRED worked to recruit the needed staff.

31.    Implementation was also affected by Hurricane Felix. Felix severely hit the north coast of
Nicaragua in August of 2007, stopping progress during the rest of the year, while SE-
SINAPRED turned its attention to responding to the disaster.

32.     UCRESEP, which had experience in financial management and implementation of IDA
projects, successfully managed procurement and financial reporting: it sent Integrated Project
Management Reports (PMRs) to SE-SINAPRED and semi-annual progress reports to the Bank.
The project covered the costs of: (a) consultancies for UCRESEP's additional procurement and
accounting needs; (b) software, computers and office furnishings acquisitions; and (c)
consultancies for the Executive Secretariat additional procurement and accounting needs. When

4
    UCRESEP, which had been involved from the beginning, continued its assistance with the fiduciary aspects of the project

5
    Among other changes, the new government used its executive and constitutional powers to impose salary ceilings for technical
    staff. The consequences, however, played out on the project as positions took time to fill, and new staff took time to become
    acquainted with procedures and project objectives.

                                                                 9
UCRESEP's functions were transferred to SE-SINAPRED, more formal capacity building for
the institution, especially for the fiduciary branch, should have been provided.

33.        Other specific delays that arose during implementation centered around:

·      The building of the headquarters of SE-SINAPRED, CODE (Emergency Operations
       Center) and Civil Defense

34.     As part of component A1, the project aimed at "refurbishing an existing building donated
to the National System"6 (including furniture and equipment). This was an important component,
as the building would be the official headquarters of the two main institutions promoting disaster
risk management in the country: SE-SINAPRED and Civil Defense (which focused on
emergency response). Though the building had been initially evaluated for its viability by
USAID's Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA), a Bank mission determined later
on that only 20% of the building was viable, and that its location was unsatisfactory (i.e. exposed
to flooding hazards, high traffic congestion, and lack of access to a heliport). It was therefore
recommended not to use it. The choice of a new site, legalization of land, design and bidding for
works took 16 months. At the time of this ICR, the new building was already occupied by the
SE-SINAPRED and is to be officially inaugurated soon. Civil Defense has not moved yet
because of the lack of furniture and a communications antenna (according to SE-SINAPRED, the
antenna was built and installed in May 2009).

·      The procurement issues with the risk maps

35.     FISE, the agency responsible for the pilot mitigation works requested an exception to the
Bank procurement guideline on the qualification of the technical and financial proposals for
consultancies for the risk maps of the municipalities (a change in the quality/cost ratio from
80/20% to 70/30%), to encourage local offers. Disagreements between FISE and UCRESEP
caused a delay of 9 months and led to the pilot mitigation works being executed without a priori
vulnerability assessment (i.e. the risk maps). It should be noted however that this did not affect
the relevance of the pilot mitigation works, as they were based on observation of recurring
events.

·      The additional JSDF Grant Activities

36.    In August 2002, the Government of Japan provided a Japanese Social Development Fund
(JSDF) grant to support a Community-Level Vulnerability Reduction Program in Managua, in
the amount of US$1,489,300. This grant was tied to the NDVR project, and its objective was to
complement the activities under the NDVRP, decreasing vulnerability to disasters in Managua's
poorest and most risk-prone neighborhoods by providing training, equipment, and civil
(mitigation) works. The grant was successfully implemented under the responsibility of Civil
Defense, as the agency in charge of coordinating disaster response, with support from the
Municipality of Managua (which provided in-kind contribution for two of the small mitigation

6
    From PAD, pg. 7


                                                  10
works and environmental studies) and SE-SINAPRED (through the PCU). UCRESEP also
provided assistance with financial management and procurement matters. The JSDF Grant
Reporting and Monitoring (GRM, 2006) stated smooth implementation by the PCU and good
coordination between UCRESEP, Civil Defense, and the Municipality of Managua7. While no
official follow-up operation was planned after grant closure, the Municipality of Managua
expressed satisfaction with the grant, and strong interest in obtaining more Bank funds for urban
sanitation issues. A relevant point of the GRM for the grant is that `Overall Outcome' and
`Sustainability' are rated `uncertain', mostly due to lack of or limited resources, a similar issue in
the NDVR project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
37.     The M&E framework in the PAD (Annex 1)8 presented the results9 indicators. At the
time of project design, Bank policy on indicator monitoring and definition was less strict than
nowadays, and there was more flexibility around the subject. Against today's criteria, the design
of indicators is too focused on outputs, and not enough on outcomes. Furthermore, the original
indicators were not monitored closely (there was not monitoring arrangements table in the PAD
yet), as would be expected today. As such, the Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7)
carried out in 2006 rated the results framework (including intermediate performance indicators)
and readiness for implementation arrangements for M&E as Unsatisfactory. A change in the
internal reporting system of the Bank, which reflected a decision to increase supervision and
reporting in projects, led to the introduction of a set of indicators in the Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs) from March 2005. While the 6 ISR indicators are not measuring outcomes, (as
they focus on outputs ­ Sq. meters of HQ and CODE, number of Government staff trained,
number of municipalities with risk maps and response plans), they give an idea on the
quantitative progress on the project development objective. These indicators were agreed upon
with the PCU staff, who kept track of the data in the country.

38.    Outputs. Original output indicators are numerous in the project. They were
complemented by additional indicators that were introduced in the ISRs during the project. With
the ISRs and through interviews with PCU and SE-SINAPRED staff the Bank was able to report
on all of the outputs. Furthermore, the ex-post evaluation revealed more information on the
works executed, providing a rich and comprehensive view of what was achieved in the project
(see Annex 2 for a list of outputs and their achievements).

39.    Outcomes. The project lacked intermediate outcome indicators, or an outcome-by-
component breakdown. Furthermore, of the four outcome indicators in the table (PAD Annex 1),
only one measures an outcome, the others focus on outputs. ("Long Term Disaster Mitigation

7
  The grant was completely disbursed within the original timeframe (it closed on December 31, 2005), and reaped the following
results: (a) 6 small mitigation works finished, (b) 5 community vulnerability assessments at district level and 42 at neighborhood
level, (c) 5 community vulnerability action plans at district level, and 42 at neighborhood level, (d) 5 organized local prevention
committees at district level, (e) 42 organized response brigades at neighborhood level, (f) Delivery of $113,300 worth of rescue
and communications equipment.

8
    Attached in Annex 2.

9
    Also known as output or product indicators


                                                               11
Plan prepared, and financing identified, by end of project", "National Disaster Emergency
Response plan developed by end of second year of project", and "Disaster Management
Committees organized and equipped in all municipalities by end of project"). The project team
missed an opportunity at the Mid-Term Review in January 2004 to introduce outcome indicators,
and also a year later, in 2005, following the implementation evaluation report.

40.      Impact. The project also included impact indicators. These indicators depended on the
results of studies to be carried out as part of project implementation, which were to evaluate
popular awareness of disasters and to quantify the number of persons and households (among
other variables) considered vulnerable to disasters. As specified in the Operations Manual, a
comparison of results of these studies and of the two disaster simulations programmed for the
first three years, would provide indicators of improvement or lapses in disaster awareness, in
vulnerability and in emergency response capability. Although the two simulations took place as
planned, neither the disaster awareness component nor the vulnerability assessments had been
initiated by the Project's Mid-Term Review. In the end, impact was measured in the ex-post
evaluation commissioned by SE-SINAPRED, in June 2009 (a summary of lessons learned is
included in Annex 3).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

41.     The project was classified as Environmental Category B (ratings are A to C), implying
that potential adverse environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally
important areas (including wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats) were not
likely to be significant. The Project relied on FISE's standard procedures for technical and
environmental reviews and screening procedures. No safeguard issues came up during Project
implementation

Financial Management and Procurement

42.     Financial and Procurement Management was irregular as it passed from UCRESEP to the
SE-SINAPRED. Each change translated into longer processing times for procurement activities
and financial management reports. Procurement lags during the first phase of project
implementation (under UCRESEP and SE-SINAPRED) are attributable to delays in SE-
SINAPRED's completion of technical terms of reference and evaluations, but also to a prolonged
dialogue ending with the Bank approving an exception to its guidelines on the standard 70/30%
quality/cost ratio to encourage local offers. Difficulties re-emerged when SE-SINAPRED
assumed all executing responsibilities and staffing became an issue, as the Ortega Government
set a limit on civil servants' salaries. The introduction of the National Project Financial
Management System - SIGFAPRO ­ resulted in additional delays as the SE-SINAPRED learned
to operate in the new system.

43.    Financial management and procurement suffered in particular toward the end of project
implementation. Under the administration of SE-SINAPRED, quarterly deadlines for the
submission of the Financial Management Reports to the Bank were not respected; Project Audit
Reports conclude that internal control issues had not been well addressed in the execution period
                                               12
of the project. As a result, FM ratings dropped to Moderately Satisfactory from April to October
2006, while procurement ratings fell to Unsatisfactory in January 2009.

44.     An Ex-Post Review of procurement was conducted at the end of the project and revealed
the weak capacity of SE-SINAPRED on Bank procurement processes: standard procurement
times took longer than average because procurement processes were not done properly, and files
were poorly organized.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

SE-SINAPRED has expressed interest in continuing investing in disaster risk management. This
is an encouraging step. Two main factors must be considered when designing follow-on
operations, one external and the other within SE-SINAPRED.

45.     The external role of SE-SINAPRED is to actively maintain DRM priorities on the
Government's agenda Disaster risk management, particularly prevention, is a necessary
investment for a country with high multi-hazard risk, and can yield tangible results, such as
reduced mortality and infrastructure damages caused by natural hazards. It is a never-ending
task, requiring steadfast commitment and resources. Unfortunately, in many municipalities it is
secondary to needs for food aid, education, or health care. The collective awareness of the
consequences of unplanned land used, or an unprepared population is rising, and peaks in the
wake of a hurricane or other recent disaster, but can be pushed aside when faced with other
development issues that may carry heavier political capital on a day-to-day basis. Thus, the
external role includes:

      a) The continued implementation and strengthening of early warning systems (i.e.
         beyond mere communications and natural hazards surveillance systems: e.g. protocols
         for authority and responsibilities distribution, cultural-ethnic adjustments, social
         communication procedures, quality control devices, linkage to full risk management
         systems, orderly evacuation and shelter management, long term territorial and
         development planning, etc.)

      b) The expansion of the risk assessments and mapping to more municipalities, with
         accompanying training and awareness building to the rest of the country's municipal
         authorities, particularly in the RAAN and RAAS (the two autonomous regions of the
         Atlantic watershed).

      c) The definition and elaboration, along with other institutions part of SINAPRED, of
         risk financing and financial risk transfer strategies, mechanisms and tools.

      d) The request for explicit political, technical and material support from the Government
         for the implementation of the Central American Probabilistic Risk Assessment project
         (CAPRA). Nicaragua, along with Costa Rica are the pilot countries CAPRA, a
         regional initiative led by the Central American Center for the Coordination of Disaster
         Prevention (CEPREDENAC) in collaboration with the United Nations International
         Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UN/ISDR) and the World Bank, with the
         participation of government entities and institutions of Central America. CAPRA will
                                              13
          enable Governments and scientific communities to identify and evaluate the sources of
          potential losses (both geographically and by sector) from adverse natural events, risk
          reduction investment opportunities, as well as government capacity to finance and
          manage recovery operations. This knowledge will nourish the formulation of strategies
          and policies to strengthen the national risk prevention and emergency management
          system, and to develop a risk financing strategy.

46.     Internally, to mitigate the effect of high staff turnover rates, SE-SINAPRED should
ensure new staff is trained on a continuous basis, to maintain the knowledge base. Reinforcing a
refresher course (at advanced second stage-level) for continuing staff would also be important.
To this effect, SE-SINAPRED has already begun a `mayors training' program, where the 69 new
mayors that were elected this year (in January 2009) and 152 municipalities received training in
DRM, thus building on the existing knowledge base created trough the project. At the technical
level, emergency equipment should also be kept up to date, and cared for (this includes regular
technical checkups, testing of existing equipment, provision of batteries).


3. Assessment of Outcomes


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

47.     The NDVRP's objectives are highly relevant to the needs of the country. It supports the
national initiative to mainstream disaster risk management at the central and local levels in
Nicaragua, in order to reduce the country's vulnerability to recurrent hazards. They are reflected
in the design and implementation of the project, conducted at the national and municipal levels,
the execution of mitigation works, and the increased public awareness and creation of a "Culture
of Prevention". The overall goal of the project is particularly pertinent to Nicaragua, due to its
high exposure to multi-hazard risks, and to the escalating impacts of climate change on the
region.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

48.   Based on the evidence collected through interviews (particularly with ex-PCU staff and
SE-SINAPRED staff), progress against the ISR indicators, and field visits, the Project
Development Objectives were mostly achieved, despite their delay.

A. Strengthening Institutional Capacity in Disaster Management At the National Level

49.     The inclusion of a budget line for SINAPRED and SE-SINAPRED in the national budget
since 2008 indicates that the system has gained considerable political weight and that SE-
SINAPRED is seen as a an integral part of the country's development strategy. Coordination
between institutions was improved substantially, with new initiatives in DRM stemming from
the project (see Annex 6).

50.    The international community recognized that SE-SINAPRED successfully led the
response to the Hurricane Felix emergency. This hurricane cannot be compared with Mitch, but

                                               14
the coordination between institutions and the general response of the government improved
substantially compared with previous emergencies10. Fully Achieved.

B. Building Institutional Capacity for Disaster Mitigation at the National Level

51.     The project conducted vulnerability studies (2 out of planned 3), which allowed for the
drafting of a disaster risk management plan. This plan is now in place, and was used during
Hurricane Felix with success (quick response time and good coordination between institutions).
While progress was made on its elaboration, a resettlement policy for populations living in high-
risk areas is still awaiting approval by the National Assembly. Partially achieved.

C. Promoting Disaster Awareness and "Preventive Thinking" through Public Sector
   Education and Awareness Programs

52.      DRM was introduced in educational curriculums as of 2008 through the training of
teachers, and educational material produced for schools. However, ex-post evaluation shows that
there has been no follow-up to this. While no media awareness campaign was officially launched
(it is awaiting approval from the new administration), SE-SINAPRED is currently elaborating a
communication strategy to promote a culture of prevention. This component was only partially
achieved.

D. Building Local Capacity to Manage Emergencies, to Assess Risk and to identify
Mitigation Measures

53.    This objective was surpassed in one aspect, with 30 municipalities producing preventive
land use plans instead of the original 25. While low resources (financial and staff) threaten the
sustainability of this achievement, an evaluation of project activities realized in 2007 reported
that the use of planning tools has gone up from 43% to 87% among municipalities. This
component was fully achieved.

E. Implementing Vulnerability Reduction and Mitigation Measures at the Local Level

54.     This objective was fully achieved. The eligible 15 municipalities have all implemented
mitigation measures. However, these were not based on risk assessments: pilot mitigation works
were chosen, designed and built before the vulnerability assessments and recommended land use
plans had been completed, but were based on local observation of recurrent events.

55.      In some of the municipalities, the project had an important multiplier effect. An example
is the case of San Juan del Sur, south of Managua. San Juan del Sur was part of the 30 selected
municipalities that received risk maps. It also was part of the 15 municipalities that were
provided with final designs for pilot mitigation works (though no financing to accomplish them).
The city used the designs and the risk maps to do their own mitigation works, and to do
territorial planning. These works were financed through tax collection and the issuance of
permits to regulate construction, in accordance with national law. Improved tax revenues led to
10
     Based on interviews with SE-SINAPRED staff, Civil Defense, and ex-PCU staff.


                                                              15
the municipality's budget rising from $4 million Córdobas (approx. US$210,000) to $50 million
Córdobas (US$2,600,000) in four years.

56.      The ex-post evaluation of the project reports the drafting of a new law on urban and
territorial planning, led by SE-SINAPRED, which would establish specific norms on the use and
occupation of the national territory.

57.    The involvement of the local community is an important factor in promoting
sustainability of the mitigation works. The ex-post evaluation reports however, that in most cases
there was no process of public consultation, and no active involvement of the community, which
explains the presence of waste deposits or other evidence of poor maintenance on the works
sites.

3.3 Efficiency

58.      At project close, at the end of February 2009, all activities had been completed, and over
its lifetime, the project disbursed 100%. However, the numerous delays in implementation (see
Section 2.2) led to the project lasting four years longer than originally planned (5 extensions).
While the objectives were mostly accomplished, and the positive results yielded are not
discounted by the project's extended life, inefficiency did increase the amount of time vulnerable
populations were exposed to risk in the country.

59.    Net Present Value was not estimated at the beginning of the project, nor at the end.
However, FISE conducted cost benefit analyses for sub-components it was responsible for,
ensuring that the most efficient option would be selected in the implementation of mitigation
works.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome

60.     The baseline for the outcomes of the project can be assumed to be very low because of
the lack of previous experience in DRM in the country. One unexpected and significant way the
capacity of the System was tested was through Hurricane Felix: the improved coordination
between the System's agencies during the emergency, and show of leadership from SE-
SINAPRED, revealed the increased strength of SINAPRED and its Secretariat. However, the
lack of outcome indicators does impede a full and clear assessment of the reach of the project.
To compensate for this weakness, some of the major outputs were viewed as proxies for project
achievements, such as: the building of the SE-SINAPRED, CODE and Civil Defense
headquarters, which lends credibility and legitimacy to the institution; and the educational
material in the schools, which contributes to the mainstreaming of DRM in regular activities.
Another output used as a proxy was the extent of the training and equipping of the local
emergency committees, which proved to work in the past two hurricane seasons, with reported
faster response times and better equipment to deal with emergencies.

Rating: Satisfactory.




                                                16
61.   The following chart shows rating by components and adjusted for importance of each
component.

Component                                       % of the project cost   ICR Rating
Component A: Strengthening National Capacity    30%                     Satisfactory
 for Disaster Management
Component B. Enhancing Institutional Capacity   10.3%                   Satisfactory
 for Disaster Mitigation at National Level
Component C. Heightening Public Awareness of    6%                      Moderately Satisfactory
Disasters and Prevention Heightened
Component D. Local capacity to assess risks     23%                     Satisfactory
identify mitigation measures and respond to
natural disaster strengthened
Component E. Local vulnerability reduction      26%                     Satisfactory
measures implemented
Component F. Project Management                 4.7%
Overall Rating                                  100%                    Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

62.     The project did not directly focus on aspects related to poverty, gender, ethnic and social
development issues, even if many of these issues are linked with disaster risk management.
Nevertheless, according to interviews, the project had direct and indirect influence on poverty
reduction, through improvements in safety, vulnerability reduction and better knowledge about
risk in communities (through risk mapping), employment during the construction of mitigation
works, and the introduction of the topic in the educational curriculum, etc.

(b) Institutional Change-Strengthening

63.     SE- SINAPRED has now been established and recognized as the authority responsible for
the coordination of risk management, and is moving to support mainstreaming of risk
management at the local level. The agency certainly needs further strengthening. These end
results are long-term and key for the development of disaster risk management in the country.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

64.    This project allowed the municipalities to improve participation, integration, and
organization around the topic of disaster risk management.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable.




                                                  17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes


Rating: Moderate

65.    There is moderate risk to the overall outcome of the operation. Specifically:

       9 Staff turnover: Large numbers of technical staff rotate during each change of
         administration. This jeopardizes the continuity of on-going and new initiatives at SE-
         SINAPRED and at the Municipal level. Whilst the Project outcomes are still in the
         process of consolidation, periodic knowledge and skills training are required at SE-
         SINAPRED staff levels (managerial, technical and scientific) to avoid the loss of the
         momentum already gathered.
       9 Government commitment to DRM: While disaster risk management has clear benefits
         and should be a continuous effort, sustainability depends on the commitment in the
         country to continue DRM mainstreaming and promotion of prevention activities. SE-
         SINAPRED has remained active through the last three administrations. The agency
         has coordinated and executed projects and activities with other sources of financing
         that consolidate the results yielded by this project (see Annex 6). These on-going
         activities show the agency's and the government's commitment to maintain DRM
         efforts in the country.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.     The Bank correctly identified the country's needs and the operation is highly relevant to
Nicaragua. However, the overestimation of the capacity and leadership of SE-SINAPRED was at
the root of several implementation problems. Also, the creation of a national system for disaster
emergency response and prevention was a difficult task to achieve in the original timeframe (3
years). This is consistent with the issues that arose during implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.    During supervision, five relatively limited project extensions were authorized by the
Bank, to maintain pressure on the country to perform. Missions were also timely and solution-
oriented, as the Bank team supported the borrower in reducing several operational set-backs and
helped ensure implementation arrangements with the Executive Secretariat; for example, to aid
implementation, the Bank assisted in the creation of a PCU. It also provided procurement

                                               18
assistance through the Country Office in Nicaragua. However the Bank missed an opportunity to
improve the outcome indicators during the Mid-Term Review.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68.     The Bank designed a project that was well-adapted to the needs of the country, and
provided adequate support during implementation to help resolve arising issues. From the
beginning, UCRESEP was designated as the financial management and fiduciary provider, to
help fill the capacity gap in SE-SINAPRED. When disbursement slowed, the Bank chose to
grant shorter extensions to maintain the pressure on the Borrower to perform.

69.    However, the Bank underestimated the challenges of supporting a nascent institution, and
tasking it with the implementation of a new type of project. It proved to be overly ambitious for
the timeframe of the project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government/Implementing Agency

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.      Throughout the project, SE-SINAPRED's capacity has been strengthened, and its focus is
now to maintain a strong presence institutionally. SE-SINAPRED received assistance from
UCRESEP on fiduciary matters, as well as from a PCU during implementation in 2004. Despite
the assistance provided by these two institutions, SE-SINAPRED suffered from inherent
institutional weaknesses, such as vertical decision-making and a slowing of the flow of
information, actions, and resolution of issues. An additional complication was the significant
staff turnover in essential positions such as the Executive Secretary of SE-SINAPRED (3
changes), due to the changing political context.

(b) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.     While the assessment of the implementing agency is rather negative, the overall outcome
of the project is a deciding factor in the rating: the project managed to accomplish positive
results, albeit within an extended timeframe. The outcome is that disaster risk management,
which was largely absent from public policy before the project, has now been introduced, and the
system has demonstrably worked.




                                               19
6. Lessons Learned


72.     A monitoring and evaluation framework that includes outcome indicators is necessary to
measure results, as is an effective supervision team. Ideas for possible outcome indicators could
include improvements in quality standards (for works), skills tests (for training), drills and
practical tests (for new equipment and procedures).

73.     Evidence from the interviews and the ex-post evaluation illustrate that low ownership and
awareness in the community leads to lower than ideal maintenance, and the presence of trash and
debris on the works sites. In most cases, the community was not introduced to the works, nor
invited to any process of public consultation. The involvement of the local community (through
town halls, consultations, informational events) is fundamental to ensure the sustainability of
mitigation works and outreach efforts made under the project. Stronger communities will lead to
improved coordination and leadership in times of crisis.

74.     Disaster risk management is an excellent basis for a national/municipal/territorial
development strategy. Including risk as a factor of consideration in development encourages
preventive and mitigating action across sectors, allowing for more sustainable achievements on
the path to development. It also allows for participatory processes developing consensus toward
a common future.

75.     Unlike emergency response, prevention entails a change in behavior. Establishing a
culture of prevention therefore takes time, and requires dedication and resources over multiple
years and activities. The project shows that a combination of analytical work (risk mapping)
followed by a concrete action (mitigation works) is a good way to keep actors involved through a
full project cycle leading to tangible change in perception, behavior and capacity to manage
risks.

76.     Clear roles and responsibilities should be assigned to the coordinating agency staff (in
this case SE-SINAPRED) in regular times and in times of crisis, to ensure there is enough
capacity at headquarters at all times for prevention and mitigation purposes. This is especially
important in countries with highly recurrent events.

77.    Disaster risk management institutions are frequently over stretched between regular
operations and emergencies. This means a project implementation unit should have clear roles,
so that staff can continue to work on on-going projects independent of staff tending to the
emergency. This would ensure continuity, and is especially important in countries with highly
recurrent events.

78.    Tensions often emerge from internal and external equity problems among institutions
funded by the Bank. The Country Management Unit (CMU) at the Bank should monitor
standards for PCU salaries according to the national levels and based on other institutions across
Bank projects. This will diminish the chance of a disconnect between PCU salaries with local
government pay.



                                               20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Institutions/Partners


(a) Borrower/implementing institutions

Design, planning, execution and evaluation of the project

79.    The final design should have taken into consideration the timeframe required for the
proposed objectives, including clear and measurable results indicators, and the cost and quality
of expected products. This has caused contradictions in the report, such as "the positive
manifestations of sustainability is the evidence that the coordination between the institutions has
much improved, with new initiatives in DRM that arose from the project."[W1]

80.     The overall risk for the project was qualified by the Bank team as "substantial", based on
the possible lack of ownership and commitment to apply the DRM program, but this is
contradicted in another part of the report, where it is mentioned that the "inclusion of a budget
line for SE-SINAPRED and SINAPRED in the national budget shows that the system has gained
much political weight, and that SE-SINAPRED is considered a ministry."

81.     The ICR rates the executing agency's capacity negatively, but the project did manage
positive results and the System has shown to function.

Context of the Project

82.    Before the year 2000, the SINAPRED system did not exist officially, and there was no
executing agency to coordinate DRM. However, there were juridical and operational instruments
for prevention and response. For example, the Civil Defense Law, the National Commission of
CEPREDENAC, the Chancery manual, Construction regulations, Land use plans, and the
National urban system.

Staff rotation and salaries

83.     Staff contracted in the beginning of the project was hired as consultants, not as public
servants (functionaries). In 2006, some consultants who had won contracts were integrated as
part of the personnel (functionaries) of SE-SINAPRED, and were as such paid conforming to
Government functionaries' salaries. This led to salary disparities between consultants and
functionaries in SE-SINAPRED. This is why in 2007 the Executive powers established the
ceiling for salaries.

Operational priorities following project closing

84.   It must be emphasized that there were actions and programs coordinated and executed by
SE-SINAPRED with other sources of funds, to maintain the results yielded by the project. Some


                                                21
of those initiatives are described in Annex 7. Recommendations should reflect that these are not
pending activities, but ongoing ones.

85.     INETER, which carried out vulnerability and risk mapping activities, insisted on the
importance of providing all municipalities with risk maps. The country does not have the
resources to currently extend this to the rest of the municipalities, and it should be prioritized in
future projects.

86.     Civil Defense used its experience to provide two kinds of training: (a) organization of the
committees, including distribution of equipment for emergency response; and (b) training in the
use of equipment and in emergency response. Civil Defense recognizes that although its
targeting for equipment distribution was good, its monitoring was poor, as much of it
disappeared or failed to be used effectively. This emphasizes the need for improved tracking and
delivery procedures.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A.




                                                 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal Estimate
                                         Actual Estimate (USD                           Percentage of
             Components                                          (USD millions)
                                          millions) IDA only                             Appraisal
                                                                Borrower and IDA
 STRENGTHENING OF NATIONAL
                                                  4.82                  3.59                  30
 SYSTEM CAPACITY
 DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL
 MITIGATION PROGRAM AND                           1.65                  1.50                 10.3
 STRATEGY
 BUILDING PUBLIC AWARENESS
                                                  0.97                  0.88                    6
 OF DISASTER PREVENT
 STRENGTHENING LOCAL
 CAPACITY FOR DISASTER                            3.69                  3.34                  23
 MANAGEMENT
 IMPLEMENTATION OF LOCAL
                                                  4.16                  3.56                 25.9
 VULNERABILITY REDUCTION
 PROJECT FINANCIAL
                                                  0.76                  0.63                 4.7
 MANAGEMENT

                Total Baseline Cost              16.05                 13.50                 100
 Physical Contingencies
                                                  0.00                   0.00                0.00
 Price Contingencies
                                                  0.00                  0.00                 0.00
                Total Project Costs               0.00                 13.50
 Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                  0.00                 .00
 Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                  0.00                 .00
        Total Financing Required                  0.00                 13.50


(b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                Type of                                     Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                    Estimate        Estimate
                                              Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                   2.55            2.55           15.8
 International Development Association
                                                            13.50          13.50          84.1
(IDA)
Total                                                       16.05          16.05          100




                                                     23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

    1. The attached Annex 1 from the Project PAD shows proposed project outputs and impacts
       by components at Appraisal.

                                  Nicaragua: Disaster Vulnerability Reduction

      Hierarchy of                    Key Performance                       Monitoring and                       Critical
       Objectives                        Indicators                          Evaluation                        Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:                  Sector / Country Reports:         (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Economic Growth and Poverty
Reduction


Project Development                 Outcome / Impact Indicators:        Project Reports:                  (From Objective to Goal)
Objective:

To improve Nicaragua's disaster     Executive Secretariat fully         Semi-annual Project Progress      Functioning of the National
management capacity by:             operational by end of project       Reports;                          System unhindered by electoral
                                                                                                          cycles
(a) strengthening institutional     Core institutions of the
    capability in disaster          NationalSystem fully on board       Copies of plans, and evaluation   Funding continues to be
    prevention preparedness         by end of project (Performance      of consultations and              adequate.
    and response at the national    levels of the Secretariat and the   dissemination workshops;
    level;                          System in general, will be
(b) building institutional          measured during the life of the
    capacity to gram disaster       project through the evaluation of
    mitigation at the national      selected disaster management
    level;                          activities).
(c) promoting disaster
    awareness and                   Long Term Disaster Mitigation       Semi-annual Project Progress
    "preventative thinking"         Plan prepared and financing         Reports;
    through public sector           identified by end of project.
    education and awareness
    programs;                       Disaster management
(d) building local capacity to      committees organized and            Impact Evaluations of Disaster
    manage disaster                 equipped in all municipalities by   Awareness Program of Disaster
    emergencies, to assess risk     end of project.                     Theme in School Curricula, and
    and to identify mitigation                                          of Mitigation Measures,
    measures; and                   Project impact will be assessed     including surveys of
(e) implementing mitigation         through:                            beneficiaries.
    measures at the local level.    (a) evaluation of success of the
    To improve Nicaragua's               national disaster awareness
    disaster management                  campaign and the
    capacity.                            mainstreaming of disaster
                                         themes in formal education
                                         curricula:
                                    (b) evaluations of preventative
                                         planning exercises and
                                         mitigation measures carried
                                         out in the eligible
                                         municipalities (This
                                         evaluation will look at
                                         indicators such as total
                                         number of schools
                                         retrofitted, total cost of
                                         investment per capita, etc.)



                                                               24
Output from each component:    Output Indicators:                    Project Reports:                   (From Outputs to Objectives)
 A. Institutional capability
    of National System for      Key staff of the Secretariat         Semi-annual Project Progress       Trained staff remains in the
    disaster management at      identified, hired and trained by     Reports;                           Secretariat
                                first year of project; Secretariat
    national level
                                has relocated to reconditioned       Copy of National Emergency
    strengthened.               offices with Emergency               Plan
                                Operations Center and supplies
 B. Institutional capacity      for emergency needs over five        Copy of national Disaster Fund
    for disaster mitigation     years, by end of second year;        Procedures;
    and national level          Legal procedures defined and
    enhanced.                   adopted for National Disaster        Copies of Operational Manuals
                                Fund by second year of project;      for Executive Secretariat and
                                                                     National System;
                               Operations manuals prepared
                               and published by second year of       Evaluations of simulation
                               project;                              exercises.
                                4 national simulation exercises
                               carried out by end of project;
 C. Public awareness of
    disasters and of           Studies to analyze vulnerability                                         Information sharing policy
    prevention heightened.     and identify mitigation programs      Semi-annual Project Progress       agreed and maintained.
                               for the city of Managua, for key      Reports
                               watersheds and for building                                              Local officials and functionaries
                               codes carried out by end of           Copies of final study reports;     of technical institutions
                               project and found satisfactory by                                        involved in and interested in
                               the Bank;                             Copy of official resettlement      applying vulnerability analysis
                               Policy for resettlement of            policy for persons at risk of      in policy and programs
                               persons at risk of natural disaster   natural disaster
                               adopted by second year of                                                Executive Secretariat remains
                               project.                                                                 involved in and interested in
 D. Local capacity to assess
                                                                                                        applying resettlement policy
    risks, identify                                                                                     Teaching and Communication
    mitigation measures         2000 formal school teachers          Semi-annual Project Progress       professions remain interested in
    and respond to natural      training in disaster prevention      Reports;                           and concerned for disaster
    disasters strengthened.     and given instructive materials      Copies of teaching guides and      prevention.
                                for use by 10,000 students by        materials on disaster awareness
                                end of project;                      for use in public schools;         National Disaster Awareness
                                Public Awareness Campaign on         evaluations of training modules    Raising Campaign reaches out
                                Disasters carried out by third       for teachers;                      to most vulnerable population
                                year of project;                     Copy of the Design and Plan for    Municipalities are interested in
                                150 communication media              Disaster Awareness Campaign;       participating in disaster
                                employees trained in disaster        evaluations of the campaign;       vulnerability reduction activities
                                reporting by end of project;         Evaluations of training results;
                                At least 124 municipalities have     Semi-annual Project Progress
                                prepared local emergency plans       Reports;
                                by end of project;                   Copies of local emergency
                                At least 20 eligible                 plans;
                                municipalities have carried out      Digital files of hazard and
                                vulnerability assessments and        vulnerability maps, copies of
 E. Local vulnerability         prepared "preventive" land use       vulnerability assessment
                                plans by end year of project;        reports; evaluations of
    reduction measures                                               participatory exercises;
    implemented.                At least 15 eligible
                                municipalities have                  Semi-annual Project Progress       Municipalities are interested in
                                implemented mitigation               Reports;                           participating in disaster
                                measures identified under            Copies of M'pal Investment         vulnerability reduction activities
                                component D by end of project        Plans; impact evaluations of
                                                                     mitigation measures.
                                                                                                        Municipalities are interested in
                                                                     Quarterly Project Progress         participating in disaster
                                                                     Reports; Copy of the Design        vulnerability reduction activities
                                                                     and Plan for National
                                                                     Awareness Raising Campaign

                                                           25
Project Components/Sub-            Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:             (From Components to
components:                              component)                                        Outputs)


 A.     Strengthening the                 US$4.82             Semi-Annual Project          Government contributes
 National System Capacity for                                 Progress Reports             operating costs of the
 Disaster Management                                                                       Executive Secretariat
 A.1 Institutional Strengthening                              Independent Audit Reports;   and National System;
 of the Executive Secretariat
 A.2     Strengthening of the                                 Supervision Mission          There is adequate
 National System                                              Reports;                     capacity in the
                                                                                           Secretariat to coordinate
 B.    Development of the                 US$1.65             National Emergency Plan      tasks across various
 National Mitigation Program                                                               institutions and to
 and Strategy                                                                              supervise consultants
 B.1 Mitigation Information                                   Semi-Annual Project
 System                                                       Progress Reports;
                                                              Independent Audit Reports;   Hiring of consultants and
 B.2 Strategic Mitigation                                     Supervision Mission          procurement of
 Studies                                                      Reports                      equipment is carried out
                                                              Study of Watershed           on a timely fashion
 C.    Building Public                    US$0.97             Vulnerability Study of
 Awareness of Disaster                                        Building Codes;
 Prevention                                                   Study of Managua
                                                              Vulnerability to
 C.1 Mainstreaming of disaster                                Earthquakes;
 awareness into formal                                        Resettlement Policy;
 education                                                    National Mitigation
 C.2 Public Awareness                                         Program
 Program                                                      Semi-Annual Project
 C.3 Disaster Awareness in                                    Progress Reports;
 Communications Media                                         Independent Audit Reports;
                                                              Supervision Mission
 D.      Strengthening of Local           US$3.69             Reports;
 Capacity for Disaster Risk                                   Copies of Teaching
 Management                                                   Materials developed for
 D.1 Consolidation of local                                   elementary school, for
 disaster response committee.                                 general public and for
 D.2 Promotion of preventive                                  communications training
 planning

 E.     Implementation of                 US$4.16
 Local Vulnerability Reduction                                Semi-Annual Project
 Measures                                                     Progress Reports;
 E.1 Identification of sub-                                   Independent Audit Reports;
 projects                                                     Supervision Mission
                                                              Reports;
 E.2 Design and
 Implementation of sub-
 projects
                                          US$0.76
 F.   Project Financial                                       PMRs delivered quarterly;
 management                                                   Semi-Annual Project
                                                              Progress Reports;
                                                              Independent Audit Reports;
                                                              Supervision Mission
                                                              Reports
                                                     26
Project Components/Sub-               Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:               (From Components to
components:                                 component)                                          Outputs)


(b) Technical knowledge and                                      Quarterly Project Progress
  skills                                                         Reports; Independent Audit
                                                                 Reports; Supervision Mission
                                                                 Reports
2.1(b) Training and technical
  assistance to improve natural
  hazard and disaster information
  gathering, analysis and sharing

2.2(b) Establishment of technical
  advisory group to assist in risk
  analysis and sub-project
  identification at the local level

2.3(b) Inventory and partnering
  of private sector institutions/
  firms working in scientific and
  technical areas

2.4(b) Promotion of disaster
  management information and
  experience exchange at the
  local and regional level

3. Strengthening of Local
Capacity to Mitigate and                      US$2.5
Respond to Natural Disasters

3.1 Establishment of local
emergency committees,
including provision of training,
equipment and specialized
support and monitoring

3.2 Preparation of local disaster
emergency plans

3.3 Local vulnerability analysis
and identification of mitigation
measures, including land use
planning

3.4 Design and implementation
of structural mitigation measures

3.5 Design and implementation
of non-structural mitigation
measures

4. Project Management
                                              US$2.0


                                                        27
2. Achievement of Outputs As Indicated in the Project Appraisal Document.

This information was collected from interviews with SE-SINAPRED and the PCU at project
closing.

Component A: Strengthening of National System Capacity for Disaster Management
 PAD Output Indicator          Achievement at Project Close       ICR rating
 Key staff of the Secretariat  Accomplished but not in specified  Satisfactory
 identified, hired and trained timeframe. This was done 7 years
 by first year of project      later.
 Secretariat has relocated to  Accomplished but not in specified  Satisfactory
 reconditioned offices with    timeframe. This was done 7 years
 Emergency Operations          later.
 Center and supplies for
 emergency needs over 5
 years by end of second year
 Legal procedures defined      Accomplished but not in specified  Satisfactory
 and adopted for National      timeframe. This was done 6 years
 Disaster Fund by second       later.
 year of project
 Operations manuals            Achieved within timeframe.         Satisfactory
 prepared and published by
 second year of project
 4 national simulation         2 simulation exercises             Satisfactory
 exercises carried out by end  accomplished, 4 theoretical
 of project                    simulation exercises accomplished.
Component B. Institutional Capacity for Disaster Mitigation at national level enhanced
 Studies to analyze           Accomplished.                         Satisfactory
 vulnerability and identify
 mitigation programs for the
 city of Managua carried out
 by end of project and found
 satisfactory by the Bank
 Studies to analyze           Not accomplished. A Regional          N/A
 vulnerability and identify   project funded by European
 mitigation programs for key  Commission (PREVDA) was doing
 watersheds carried out by    the same for the region. Therefore it
 end of project and found     was decided that this activity was
 satisfactory by the Bank     better addressed within the regional
                              project given the scale and
                              geographic scope, and was canceled
                              in this project.
 Studies to analyze           Accomplished.                         Satisfactory
 vulnerability and identify
 mitigation programs for
 building codes carried out
 by end of project and found
 satisfactory by the Bank
 Policy for resettlement of   Partially Accomplished. Policy        Moderately Satisfactory
 persons at risk of natural   elaborated but not approved by
 disaster adopted by second   National Assembly.


                                                     28
 year of project
Component C. Public Awareness of Disasters and Prevention Heightened
 2000 formal school teachers   Training was accomplished. Exact Satisfactory
 trained in disaster           number of trainees pending
 prevention and given          counterpart evaluation.
 instructive materials for use
 by 10,000 students by end
 of project
 Public Awareness                Partially accomplished: the           Moderately Satisfactory
 Campaign on Disasters           Campaign was designed but not
 carried out by third year of    executed.
 project
 150 communication media         Workshops were held, but exact        Moderately Satisfactory
 employees trained in            number of participants pending
 disaster reporting by end of    counterpart evaluation.
 project
Component D. Local capacity to assess risks, identify mitigation measures and respond to natural disaster
strengthened
 At least 124 municipalities Accomplished. 140 municipalities       Satisfactory
 have prepared local         with plans.
 emergency plans by end of
 project
 At least 20 eligible        Accomplished. 30 municipalities        Satisfactory
 municipalities have carried have prepared land use plans.
 out vulnerability
 assessments and prepared
 `preventive' land use plans
 by end year of project
Component E. Local vulnerability reduction measures implemented
 At least 15 eligible      Accomplished.                        Satisfactory
 municipalities have
 implemented mitigation
 measures identified under
 component D by end of
 project


It is worth noting that the Implementation Status Report (ISR) lists a different set of indicators.
These are listed below. These indicators were introduced during the implementation of the
project, in 2005.

ISR Indicators

PDO Indicators          Baseline value        Last ISR            ISR rating       ICR assessment
 Number of              0                      4: a. Managua      Satisfactory     Satisfactory
 international                                 JSDF (closed
 projects in disaster                          with
 management, for                               satisfactory
 which the SE-                                 results), b.
 SINAPRED is the                               Component 1
 implementing                                  of Hurricane
 agency                                        Felix ERL, c.

                                                      29
                                 PREVDA-EU;
                                 c. JICA-
                                 Community
                                 Disaster
                                 Management
Square meters of      0          1,871 m2          Satisfactory   Achieved. Satisfactory.
SINAPRED, EOC                    designed and
and Civil Defense                constructed
buildings designed
and constructed
Number of studies     0          3 studies         Satisfactory   Achieved. Satisfactory.
completed,                       completed,
disseminated and in              disseminated
use                              and in use, 1
                                 study pending
Changes to the        0          Changes in        Satisfactory   Achieved. Satisfactory.
curriculum- formal               formal
education (pre-                  education
school, primary,                 under way, 9
secondary) and in                student books
communications                   and 9 teacher
programs                         guides
(university level)               incorporated in
                                 curriculum.
                                 Curriculum
                                 design changes
                                 to
                                 communication
                                 s programs
                                 done but not
                                 yet
                                 implemented.
Intermediate Outcome Indicator
 Fulfillment of SE's 0           SE-               Satisfactory   Achieved. Satisfactory.
 coordinating role               SINAPRED's
 vis-à-vis                       budget has
 SINAPRED                        been approved
                                 and includes
                                 payment for
                                 staff
                                 previously
                                 paid by the
                                 project (this
                                 was assumed
                                 by the SE in
                                 2007). This
                                 shows
                                 Government
                                 commitment




                                        30
31
Annex 3. Lessons Learned from Ex-Post Evaluation (Borrower)

Following NDVR project completion, SE-SINAPRED commissioned an ex-post evaluation to
the Center for Geophysical Research (CIGEO), in May 2009. CIGEO conducted the evaluation
through semi-structured interviews, surveys, workshops and checklists. It selected 37
municipalities, the 30 that were part of the project, and 7 as a control group. The following
lessons learned are those drawn from the evaluation of the project.

On the Promotion of a Culture of Prevention.

·   Field visits revealed that various Prevention Committees were trained to strengthen the
    technical, operational, institutional and organizing capacities for the prevention and reduction
    of existing risk in the municipality.

·   In some of the territories, members of BRIMUR (Municipal Response Brigades) were
    preparing training with SE-SINAPRED and Civil Defense to improve their capacities.
    Brigades are composed mostly of professionals using their experience and knowledge to
    serve and protect the population.

·   Teachers and students were trained, though not 100%. Only those attending centers that
    operate as temporary shelters during emergencies in the municipality. The trainings focused
    on methodological guides that include themes and activities for risk management education.
    These teachers also participated in trainings given by Civil Defense on what to do in the
    occurrence of an adverse natural event.

·   Interviews with trained teachers reveal they still need more education on prevention and
    mitigation of disasters. There is also a lack of follow-up, once the training is over.

·   Teachers feel that trainings and guide books are insufficient, and ask for more presence from
    SINAPRED, not only in the case of emergencies, but also that the system bring more tools.

·   Teachers were very emphatic when speaking about the workshops that they were extremely
    important, as well as the inclusion of risk management in the education curriculum, which
    allows them to adapt the component to various areas and disciplines.

·   The activity notebooks were all used, improving the student's capacities, and enabling him to
    apply his knowledge in his own community.

·   A Culture of Prevention was developed among the population, training people from various
    civil organizations, community leaders that are responsible for transmitting the knowledge to
    others, and the extinct municipal development committees (CDM).

·   SE-SINAPRED has conducted campaigns of prevention to inform the population at the
    municipal level, and was generally well received in the communities. One request however,



                                                32
    was that those campaigns be more frequent instead of periodic: that they be conducted
    throughout the year, and not only during the dry and wet seasons.

On Strengthening Municipal Capacity in Risk Management

·   Staff remaining in the municipalities was able to maintain coordination with the various
    institutions, but institutional memory was lost in most of them, due to a high rotation of staff.
    Municipalities recognize this problem, as each new administration changes technical staff
    working in areas of prevention or planning, which can seriously delay implementation.

·   The majority of municipalities report not having the sufficient material resources to promote
    prevention and mitigation of adverse natural events. Some brigades use their own emergency
    equipment. Those that have received funds from SINAPRED have out of date or missing
    equipment and parts.

·   Of the municipalities visited, the departmental capitals have a larger presence of SINAPRED
    authorities, as opposed to the smaller towns, independent of the level of risk (which may be
    higher in those smaller towns). Since 2008 however, SE-SINAPRED has at least one
    delegate in each of the 153 municipalities.

·   Most municipalities have trained response brigades with technical staff and first response
    equipment.

·   In the municipalities that have received some communication materials from SINAPRED,
    some are in poor state, due to lack of maintenance and reparation. It is important to underline
    that the equipment was insufficient to safeguard all mitigation activities.

·   In almost all mayor offices there is at least one risk map. Some mayor offices have all the
    risk analysis maps, and it is considered that each institution knows its role in the occurrence
    of a disaster.

Final Recommendations on the Project

·   Interviews with the municipalities reveal that training and spreading of knowledge should be
    continued, online, where the Information System on Risk Management (SIGER) can be
    found, and a municipal training can be begun for the incoming officials on the instruments
    that were designed under the project.

·   It is necessary to complete the IT equipment, with at least a software developer, in Visual
    Studio 2005 and SQL 2005, to remain up to date, and for the unfinished designs.

·   It is important to re-engineer the Damage Evaluation and Needs Assessment Information
    Subsystem (EDAN), and move it to a more robust platform such as VS 2005, SQL 2005, and
    the programming language asp.net.

·   It is necessary to implement the Manual on Norms and Procedures.

                                                 33
·   It is necessary to implement the contingency plans.

·   It is necessary to automatically implement the password change for the users at least every 3
    months.

·   Document each information subsystem, beginning from the analysis and design, using case
    studies and UML, with technical and user manuals.

·   Establish a good backup system, for the storing of programs and archives.

·   Incorporate the Notice Board of Instruments, as a forecasting instrument, without overwhelm
    the database.

·   Incorporate early warning indicators.

·   Homogenize IT applications in a single development tool and data and information base.




                                                34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                           Responsibility/
            Names                                    Title                      Unit
                                                                                             Specialty
Lending/Supervision/ICR
Ana Campos Garcia               Consultant                                    LCSUW
Omar D. Cardona                 Consultant                                    LCSUW
Irani G. Escolano               Consultant                                    LCSPT
Augusto Garcia                  E T Consultant                                LCSSD
Ross Alexander Gartley          Operations Officer                            LCSUW
Maryse D. Gautier               Manager, Portfolio and Operations             EACPF
John V. Kellenberg              Sector Manager, Environment                   ECSSD
Alvaro Larrea                   Procurement Specialist                        LCSPT
Nelson Antonio Medina Rocha     Consultant                                    ETWAN
Rudy Morales                    Consultant                                    LCSUW
Alexandra Ortiz                 Senior Urban Economist                        MNSSD
Enrique Pantoja                 Senior Land Administration Specialist         LCSAR
Enrique Antonio Roman           Financial Management Specialist               LCSFM
Fernanda Ruiz Nunez             Young Professional                             YPP
Jose C. Joaquin Toro Landivar   Hazard Risk Management Specialist             LCSUW
Rafael Vera                     Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist          ETWAN
Nara Meli                       E T Consultant                                LCSUW
Sergio Mora                     Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist    LCSUW
Osmar Velasco                   Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist    LCSUW

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                    USD Thousands (including travel
                                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                                                and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                                  31.75
  FY00                                                  16                              48.93
  FY01                                                  27                              87.24
  FY02                                                   6                              17.65
  FY03                                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                                   0.00
                                   Total:               49                             185.57
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                                   0.00

                                                     35
FY01                    0.00
FY02             10    52.06
FY03             18   102.60
FY04             12    82.14
FY05             16    91.25
FY06              9    60.63
FY07             26   101.80
FY08             20    72.61
FY09              5     0.00
       Total:   116   563.09




                36
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary table of comments received from Borrower:

      Project theme as treated in the   Comments or Observations                 ICR response
      ICR
1.    Design, planning, execution and   The final design should have             Differences arise due to
      evaluation of the project         considered the time required for the     timing. SE-SINAPRED
                                        proposed objectives, such as clear       leadership has improved
                                        and measurable results indicators,       since early project
                                        timeframe, cost and quality of           implementation, and the
                                        expected products. This has caused       team recognizes it has grown
                                        contradictions in the report, such as    to an established ministry by
                                        with the "weak leadership of SE-         the end of the project.
                                        SINAPRED" and "the positive
                                        manifestations of sustainability is
                                        the evidence that the coordination
                                        between the institutions has much
                                        improved, with new initiatives in
                                        DRM that arose from the project."
                                        The overall risk for the project was     The difference comes from
                                        qualified by the Bank team as            the risk rating at appraisal,
                                        "substantial", based on the possible     versus after the project. The
                                        lack of ownership and commitment         risk to development
                                        to apply the DRM program, but this       outcomes has been
                                        is contradicted in another part of the   downgraded to moderate.
                                        report, where it is mentioned that
                                        the "inclusion of a budget line for
                                        SE-SINAPRED and SINAPRED in
                                        the national budget shows that the
                                        system has gained much political
                                        weight, and that SE-SINAPRED is
                                        considered a ministry."
                                        The ICR rates the executing              SE-SINAPRED's capacity
                                        agency's capacity negatively, but        was weak at the beginning of
                                        the project did manage positive          the project and has since
                                        results and the System has shown to      shown signs of
                                        function.                                strengthening, though
                                                                                 continuous capacity building
                                                                                 is needed.
                                        The Borrower noted that the              Noted, we have added this
                                        project's execution was under the        information to the report.
                                        responsibility of the SE-
                                        SINAPRED, and was completed
                                        successfully. The SINAPRED
                                        system functions well, as
                                        demonstrated in the last significant
                                        emergency, Hurricane Felix. The
                                        territorial policy was elaborated and
                                        sent to the National Assembly.
2.    Context of the Project            Before the year 2000, the                Noted, we have added this
                                        SINAPRED system did not exist            information in the report.

                                                   37
     Project theme as treated in the    Comments or Observations                ICR response
     ICR
                                        officially, and there was executing
                                        agency to coordinate DRM.
                                        However, there were juridical and
                                        operational instruments for
                                        prevention and response. For
                                        example, the Civil Defense Law, the
                                        National Commission of
                                        CEPREDENAC, the Chancery
                                        manual, Construction regulations,
                                        Land use plans, and National urban
                                        system.
3.   Staff rotation and salaries        The staff contracted in the
                                        beginning of the project was based
                                        on consultant modalities, not as
                                        public servants (functionaries). In
                                        2006, some consultants who had
                                        won contracts were integrated as
                                        part of the personnel (functionaries)
                                        of SE-SINAPRED, and were as
                                        such paid conforming Government
                                        functionaries' salaries. This led to
                                        salary disparities between
                                        consultants and functionaries in SE-
                                        SINAPRED. This is why in 2007,
                                        the Executive powers established
                                        the ceiling for salaries
4.   Operational priorities following   It must be emphasized that there        Noted, we have added this
     project closing                    were actions and programs               information in the report.
                                        coordinated and executed by SE-
                                        SINAPRED with other sources of
                                        funds, to maintain the results
                                        yielded by the project. Some of
                                        those initiatives are described in
                                        annex 7. Recommendations should
                                        reflect that these are not pending
                                        activities, but ongoing ones.




                                                  38
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Credit agreement, Project Operational Manuel, Implementation
Status Reports, Aide-Mémoires. Country Assistance Strategy (1998-2002), Country Portfolio
Performance Review 2004, 2005, Ex-post evaluation of the project submitted by the country.

Table A. List of Interviewees: Implementation Completion Report Mission, Nicaragua March 30
­ April 4, 2009

  No.     Name                                               Title and Institution
   1      Jorge Ramón Arnesto Sosa                           Executive Secretary, SINAPRED, from
                                                             January 2007 to date.
   2      Cristóbal Sequeira                                 Executive Secretary, SINAPRED, from
                                                             March 2005 to October 2006.
   3      Félix Hernández                                    Assessor     of     Executive   Secretary,
                                                             SINAPRED, from May 2008 to date.
   4      Laura Gutiérrez                                    Ex-Director of Planning, SE-SINAPRED
   5      Julio Icaza                                        Ex PCU Coordinator 2005-2007
   6      Silvio Cerda                                       Ex Chief of Mitigation and Infrastructure
                                                             Technical Unit, SE-SINAPRED.
    7     Wilfred Strauss                                    Director Geophysics, INETER
    8     Coronel Mario Perezcassar                          Director, Civil Defense
    9     Dionisio Rodríguez                                 Coordinator of ex-post evaluation, CIGEO
   10     Ligia Calderón                                     Director of Territorial Planning, SE-
                                                             SINAPRED.
   11     Field visit to Leon Municipality's Disaster Risk   Municipal Technical staff
          Management Unit
   12     Brenda Mendieta                                    Project Planning support 2003-2007
                                                             Ex PCU Coordinator 2007-2008
                                         HQ Interviewees
   15     Tova Solo                                          TTL of project from 2001 to 2004
   16     Alexandra Ortiz                                    TTL of Project from 2004 to 2007
   17     Joaquin Toro                                       TTL of Project from 2007to 2009
   18     Enrique Pantoja                                    Sr. Land Administration Specialist




                                                39
Table B. Ongoing operations in DRM in Nicaragua

     Existing Projects with Donors and                Funding Agency /               Allocated       HFA
    International Financial Institutions            International Partners          Budget and      Activity
                                                                                      Period        Area(s)
                                                                                      (US$)
Nicaragua Disaster Vulnerability Reduction                 World Bank                10 million     1, 2, 3, 4,
Project                                                                              2001-2009          5
Hurricane Felix Emergency Recovery                         World Bank               17 million          4
                                                                                    2008 -2011
Support for DesInventar online disaster                    PREDECAN                 Not available       2
database creation of the National Disaster                                           2008-2009
Prevention and Management Information
System (SIAPAD)
Seminars and guidance for municipalities on                PREDECAN                 Not available       2
risk reduction                                                                       2008-2009
 A study to update Disaster Risk Management                  IADB                   Not available       2
Indicators                                                                              2009
Development of a Risk Assessment Platform            World Bank (GFDRR)               350,000          2,3
for Nicaragua                                                                        2009-2010
Development of disaster risk management                Japan International            300,000          2,4
capacity at the local level in Bonsai                 Cooperation Agency             2008-2011
Program for the Reduction of Vulnerability           European Commission            3.33 million      1,2,4
and Environmental Degradation in Nicaragua                                           2007-2011
(PREVDA)
Regional Plan for Disaster Reduction (PRRD)                  Norway,                  400,000           1
                                                Spanish International Cooperation    2006-2011
                                                             Agency
Disaster Risk Management for volcanic and       Disaster Preparedness Programme       520,000          2,4
landslide hazards in Ometepe island              of the European Commission's        2008-2011
                                                 Humanitarian Aid Department
                                                           (DIPECHO)
Training on disaster risk management to local                UNDP                     400,000           1
authorities
Disaster risk reduction program for Nicaragua     Swiss Cooperation COSUDE           2.2 million    1, 2, 3, 5
                                                                                     2008-2012
Earthquake Risk Reduction in Guatemala, El                  Norway                   2.4 million        2
Salvador and Nicaragua with regional                                                 2007-2010
cooperation support to Honduras, Costa Rica
and Panama (RESIS II)
Regional Program of Environment in Central       Danish Cooperation (DANIDA)        Not available      2,4
America (PREMACA)
Mesoamerican coordination system for                         IADB                     800,000           2
territorial information                                                              2009-2011
Technical assistance to strengthen                         World Bank                 446,000          1,2
Information and Communication Tools for                                              2007-2009
CEPREDENAC and National Commissions




                                                      40
C. Chronology of Project


                                        NICARAGUA NATURAL DISASTER VULNERABILITY REDUCTION
                                                       PROJECT CHRONOLOGY

Description              2001          2002              2003              2004    2005             2006              2007         2008                2009

                           Efect Oct                          Sept
Responsible Unit         Tech. Unit       Executive Secretariat SINAPRED                  Project Coordinating Unit                  Executive Secretariat SINAPRED
                                                                                                                   June
Coordinator               Tech. Unit     José Santos Mendoza                       Julio Icaza                        Brenda Mendieta Executive Secretary SINAPRED
                                        April                                              Nov                January
Executive Secretary          N/A                              Cristóbal Sequeira              Jerónimo Giusto              J. Ramón Arnesto Sosa
                                       April                                       April Sept April      Sept Feb
Implementation periods                        Original timeline of project         Ext. 1 Ext 2 Ext. 3 Ext. 4           Final extention (5)




                                                                                       40
WB339312
C:\Users\WB339312\Documents\Nica-ICR\ICR_Nicaragua_Aug 27.docx
8/28/2009 12:03:00 PM




                                                           40
