Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAL Z 62-a-iAS
Report No. P-3516-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED US$5.0 MILLION LOAN
TO MAURITIUS
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 16, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCYL EQUIVALENTS
Annual              1 Rupee               1 US$
Average             =   US$             =   Rupees
1975                 0.1659               6.0268
1976                 0.1497               6.6824
1977                 0.1515               6.5996
1978                 0.1628               6.1410
1979                 0.1562               6.4017
1980                 05.1300              7.6896
1981                 0.1100               9.0911
1982                 0.0920              10.8990
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CHA   -    Central Housing Authority
DWC   -    Development Works Corporation
EPZ   -    Export Processing Zone
MEDIA -    Mauritius Export Development and Investment
Authority
MEFF  -    Ma'.ritius Equity Financing Fund
MGTO  -    Mauritius Government Tourist Office
TDA   -    Tea Development Authority
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer          =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer   a      0.3861 miles
1 hectare         .         2.4.7 acres
1 arpent             =      1.043 acres
1 metric ton         =      1.102 short tons
1 metric ton                0.984 long tons
1 kilogram           =      2.205 pounds



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Government of Mauritius.
Amount:        US$5.0 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee).
Terms:         Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Program
Description    Project Objectives and Content:   The project is designed to
help the Government implement and consolidate its
structural adjustment program agreed with the Bank under
the SAL II program. More specifically, it is aimed at:
assisting the implementation of reform measures in the
agriculture sector, specifically the restructuring of the
sugar and tea industries and the diversification of
agricultural production; supporting the establishment of
the Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
which will promote export development and investment;
assisting the Ministry of Labor to devise a coherent wage
and incomes policy in the private sector; strengthening the
ability of the Mauritius Government Tourist Office to carry
out an expanded promotional program; and helping improve
the efficiency of the public sector by strengthening the
organization and management of key ministries and selected
public enterprises.
Benefits and Risks: The main risks associated with the
project include possible delays in recruiting the required
technical assistance personnel, owing to the specialized
nature of some of the assignments under the project and the
Government's general preference for grant financing of
technical assistance. This concern was taken into account
in designing the project, which includes only those
elements essential to the structural adjustment process for
which no alternative financing is available.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs
In US$ Thousands
Item                        Local     Foreign     Total
Long-term advisers                      1350       1.350
Short-term consultants                  1205       1205
Commissions of inquiry
and special studies         200        445        645
Operating Costs for MEDIA     750        400       1150
Promotional Costs MGTO        600       1000       1600
Equipment (computers,
hardware and software)                 700        700
Maintenance of equipment       50                    50
Office space and local'
support                      30                    30
Training                                  50         50
Supplementary Studies                    200        200
Contingencies                 160        440        600
Total Project Cost,
Net of Taxes               1790       5790       7580
Financing Plan
In US$ Thousands
Local    Foreign     Total     Percent
Bank                          5000        000         66
Government         1790        790       2580         34
Total              1790       5790       7580        100
Estimated Disbursements
In US$ Thousands
Bank FY            1983       1984       1985       1986
Annual             1000       1500       2000        500
Cumulative         1000       2500       4500       5000



- ii1 -
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Rate of Return:          n.a.
MAP:                     IBRD 3209R (PPA)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MAURITIUS
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Mauritius for the equivalent of US$5.0 million including
the capitalized front-end fee to help finance a technical assistance
project in support of the Government's structural adjustment program agreed
with the Bank.
2.        Part I of this report describes the economy.   An Economic
Memorandum entitled "Mauritius: Recent Developments and Prospects" (No.
3857) was issued in Gray Cover in May 1982 and in Red Cover in January
1983. An Economic Updating Note was prepared and circulated to the Second
Mauritius Consultative Group in June 1983. Country data are given in Annex
I to this report. Part II describes other Bank Group operations in
Mauritius. Part III sets out performance under the first Structural
Adjustment Loan and presents the second structural adjustment program.
Part IV describes the proposed technical assistance loan.
PART I - The Economyl/
A. Main Features of the Mauritian Economy
3.        Mauritius is an island with smaller outer islands situated in the
Indian Ocean, densely populated and with an economy dominated by sugar
production. Despite significant expansion of other sectors since the early
1970s, sugar still occupies around 90 percept of the cultivable area and
accounts for about 60 percent of export earnings. The level of economic
activity, therefore, is highly sensitive to fluctuations in sugar
production and exports. Overdependence on a single commodity also renders
the economy highly vulnerable to external shocks and disturbances.
4.        With a GNP per capita of about US$1,240 in 1982, Mauritius has
the standard of living of a middle-income developing country. Standards of
nutrition, health care, and general education greatly exceed those of
neighboring countries. The adult literacy rate is over 80 percent, life
expectancy at birth is about 65 years, and basic needs are extensively
covered. The main island of Mauritius has a population of 971,000 (1982)
on a land area of about 2,000 km2 just over half of which is cultivable.
1/ This section is identical with the President's Report for the proposed
Second Loan to Mauritius for Structural Adjustment, Report Number
P3500-MAS.



-2-
The outer islands are less developed and dispersed over a wide area of the
Indian Ocian; the largest of these islands is Rodrigues, 400 miles East of
Mauritius, with a population of about 30,000 (1982).
5.        Mauritius' population is a mosaic of various ethnic groups:
about 68 percent are of Indian origin; about 29 percent is called the
general population consisting of Franco-Mauritians and people of African or
mixed descent. The Sino-Mauritian population accounts for the remaining 3
percent. This ethnic diversity is compounded by the diversity of religious
and ideological beliefs, both of which contribute to a complex political
climate. Nevertheless, despite the ethnic complexity, the Government
functions in a system of parliamentary democracy and the country has
avoided the emergence of racial, religious or cultural conflicts.
6.        Mauritius enjoys a pleasant tropical climate which makes it
attractive for tourists. However, the country is subject to cyclones
between late December and March which can cause severe damage. Major
cyclones occur on average at 12-15 year intervals. The absence of mineral
resources and the distance of Mauritius from major markets, (about 6 thou-
sand miles from Western Europe; 10 thousand miles from the U.S.; and 7
thousand miles from Japan) affect the potential for economic development
and condition the choice of economic activities best suited to Mauritius.
It does not lie on the main sea routes and thus maritime transport costs
are relatively higher in Mauaritius than in countries competing for similar
markets.
B. Economic Developments in the 1970s
7.        During most of the seventies Mauritius achieved high economic
growth, considerable employment generation, moderate expansion of exports
and a remarkable record in improving the welfare of its population.
Because of the small size of the domestic market, the Government recognized
that export growth was of vital importance to the economy and sought to lay
the basis for export oriented development. This was achieved by encourag-
ing sugar production, tourism, tea cultivation and the establishment of
manufacturing industries in an export processing zone (EPZ). This strategy
had considerable success until the late 1970s. The unprecedented increase
in sugar prices in 1973 and 1974 helped the economy to grow by more than 10
percent per year between 1972-1977. During this period, Gross Domestic
Income increased by nearly two-thirds and helped accelerate the growth of
manufacturing, construction and service sectors. Most of the increase in
sugar profits was reinvested in joint ventures with foreign private
investors. As a result, the rate of domestic investment, as a percentage
of GDP, rose from about 13 percent in 1972 to a peak of 36 percent in
1976. The rapid growth in production and exports was also accompanied by a
rapid increase in employment; in 1977, the unemployment rate was reduced
nearly one-half to less than 8 percent, from about 15 percent in 1972.



-3-
8.        After the decline of sugar prices in 1976, severe economic
difficulties emerged. The period 1977-79 was marked by a deceleration of
GDP and export growth. The slowdown in the growth of exports compounded by
a sharp increase in the price of oil in 1979, led to a rapic deterioration
in the balance of payments. The balance of payments difficulties were
further aggravated by expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. Total
government expenditures reached about 40 percent of CDP in 1978/79.
Recu-rrent outlays rose with the sharply increased wage bill reflecting both
hig'. salary increases and expanding public employment. Food subsidies, and
expenditures on health, education and social security were also substan-
tially increased. At the same time, capital expenditures rose sharply.
The overall budget deficit thus rose to nearly 16 percent of GDP in
1978/79.
9.        The widening current account deficits between 1977-79 were
financed largely by a drawdown of foreign exchange reserves and increasing
recourse to external borrowing on commercial terms. As a result, the
country's external debt more than tripled and the debt service ratio rose
from a modest 1 percent in 1976 to nearly 10 percent in 1979. In late 1979
depletion of foreign exchange reserves and increasing fiscal and financial
imbalances prompted the adoption of more austere economic policies. The
Government introduced a stabilization program involving a 30 percent
devaluation, restrictions on public expenditures, and ceilings on salary
increases.
C.   Recent Economic Developments
10.       The 1979/80 stabilization program was short-lived; in 1980, major
natural disasters wiped out the favorable effects of the austerity
measures. A severe cyclone destroyed much of the sugar crop and production
declined uy 30 percent. Significant shortfall in sugar production was
transmitted directly to the rest of the economy. With the exception of
tourism, real output in all sectors fell sharply. The level of GDP in 1980
was about 9 percent lower than in 1979. Emergency food imports and
additional public expenditures required to rehabilitate damaged
infrastructure further compromised the stabilization efforts.
11.       The economy recovered progressively in 1981 and 1982. Sugar
production increased from 475 thousand tons in 1980 to 575 thousand tons in
1981 and 690 thousand tons in 1982. However, non-sugar industry slowed
down markedly in 1982 as new orders for manufactured products fell, owing
to the worldwide recession and restrictive economic measures adopted by the
industrialized countries. The recovery in tourism was modest despite a
second exchange rate readjustment.
12.       On the demand side, gross fixed capital formation declined by
almost 10 percent in 1981 and about 11 percent in 1982. After a slight
increase in 1981, total consumption is estimated to have declined by about
3 percent in 1982 mainly due to a reduction in private consumption. Hence
1982 saw a rise in the domestic savings rate from 14 percent of GDP in 1981
to 18 percent of GDP in 1982.



-4-
13.       The sharp contraction in economic activity in 1980 was
accompanied by a rapid rise in unemployment. The unemployment situation
deteriorated further and in 1982 the number of registered unemployed
reached nearly 25 percent of the labor force.
Fiscal Performance
14.       The overall fiscal performance continued to deteriorate until
1981/82. After a decline to about 11 percent of GDP in 1979/80 the
budgetary deficit climbed to about 14 percent of GDP in 1980/81. This
reflected primarily the heavy interest payments on external debt which
accounted for nearly one-fourth of current expenditures. In 1981/82,
discretionary tax measures, the recovery of receipts from taxes on sugar
exports, the trimming of the public sector investment program and the
containment of current expenditures helped to reduce the overall deficit to
12.8 percent of GDP.
15.       In 1982/83, there was further improvement in fiscal performance.
Provisional data on the 1982/83 budgetary outturn indicate an overall
deficit of MR 1.2 billion, equivalent to less than 10 percent of GDP. In
1982/83 total revenue increased by 22.6 percent over 1981/82, reflecting
mainly an increase in the rate of stamp duties on imports and the
introduction, in January 1983, of a 5 percent sales tax on goods at the
wholesale level. As a result, the share in GDP of total revenue rose from
21 percent in the previous fiscal year to about 23 percent in 1982/83.
Current outlays were kept constant with respect to GDP despite a 24 percent
increase in interest payments on public debt. The budgetary cost of
sv')sidies on rice and wheat flour was reduced to MR 190 million from MR 230
million in 1981/82 through increases in retail prices.
The 1983/84 Budget
16.       The 1983/84 Budget has recently been aproved by Parliament after
being delayed by nearly three months beca:,e of the general elections.
The Budget reflects the fiscal objectives of the current 18-month stand-by
arrangement; it aims at reducing the overall deficit from 9.9 percent of
GDP to 8.8 percent of estimated GDP by June 1984.
17.       To achieve this objective the 1983/84 budget introduces a number
of discretionary revenue measures. These include the rationalization of
import duties, the reimposition of custom duties on non-basic food items
and public sector imports, the introduction of a new tax on capital gains
arising from conversion of agricultural land to residential use and a
withholding tax on declared dividends. Further increases in revenue,
compared with 1982/83, are expected to accrue from the first full year's
impact of the sales tax, introduced in January 1983. On the expenditure
side, total government spending is budgeted to increase by 11.2 percent
from the estimated outturn for 1982/83. Current expenditures are expected
to remain at their 1982/83 level, with increases in some items offset by
reductions in transfers to parastatals and subsidies on rice and wheat



-5-
flour. Capital expenditures are budgeted to increase by 11 percent in
conformity with the revised Public Investment Program (PSIP).
Balance of Payments Performance
18.       Mauritius' balance of payments deteriorated steadily until 1982.
The deterioration was particularly pronounced in 1981 as sugar exports
remained below that of a normal year and manufacturing exports to European
countries were hampered by appreciation of the Mauritian rupee against
European currencies. Expansionary fiscal policy also contributed to the
deterioration of the balance of payments. To restrain import demand and
restore the competitiveness of manufacturing exports the rupee was devalued
by 20 percent, with respect to the SDR, in September 1981.
19.       The balance of payments improved substantially in 1982. The
volume of imports fell by 17 percent as a result of slower growth in GDP
and effective demand management policies.    Despite heavy interest payments
on eurodollar borrowings, the current account deficit was reduced
substantially from about 13 percent of GDP in 1981 to about 6 percent in
1982. The current account deficit is expected to decline further to about
5 percent of GDP by the end of 1983.
External Public Debt
20.       Debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have reached
$393 million at the end of 1982, equivalent to 36 percent of GDP.
Financial institutions account for almost 40 percent of Mauritius' total
debt outstanding and disbursed. As overall terms of external borrowings
hardened, particularly due to Eurodollar borrowings, debt service payments
increased from $49 million in 1981 to $58 million in 1982 and are estimated
to reach almost $90 million in 1983. As a consequence, the debt service
ratio has risen from 9.8 percent to 13 percent in 1982 and is expected to
reach 20 percent in 1983. Including IMF payments, the debt service ratio
increased from 12.4 percent in 1981 to 14.6 percent in 1982 and is expected
to reach 22.5 percent in 1983.
D. The Need for Structural Adjustment
21.       Mauritius' economic imbalances result primarily from the
Government's expansionary policy response to rising unemployment, and the
Country's heavy dependence on a single commodity. Favorable conditions in
the mid-1970s led the Government to expand public expenditures; when
resource availabilities increased during the sugar boom, the Government
embarked on a policy of income redistribution through general salary
increases, expansion of public sector employment and a large infrastructure
investment program. Failure to take prompt action to revert to more
austere economic policies when sugar prices declined resulted in excessive
budgetary deficits, strong domestic demand, rising domestic inflation and,
ultimately, in large balance of payments deficits.



- 6 -
22.       Current account deficits of about 12 percent of GDP which
Mauritius experienced during 1977-1981 cannot be sustained over a longer
period. Fundamental structural changes need to be made in the economy-if
future growth is not to be seriously limited by balance of payments and
creditworthiness constraints. First, more resources need to be channelled
to export production and efficient import-substitution, including
substitutes for imported energy. Second, domestic savings, particularly in
the public sector, need to be increased to reduce the country's reliance on
external borrowings. However, the scope for generating additional domestic
savings by constraining consumption growth is limited. Consequently,
efficiency of resource use would be one of the critical determinants of
output growth.
23.       In the short term, to maintain the country's creditworthiness,
domestic demand will need to be restrained through exchange rate and demand
management policies. In the medium term growth will depend largely on the
country's ability to diversi.fy and stimulate exports in both agriculture
and manufacturing, promote tourism and to a lesser extent reduce its
dependence on imported energy and food products.
24.       Mauritius has some scope for the development of industrial
products for the domestic market. However, given the' importance of
economies of scale in many industrial processes and the limited size of the
domestic market, import substitution will not provide the main impetus for
the sustained growth of this sector. Thus, further development and
expansion of export oriented industrialization must remain the major
priority for Mauritius. Given the monocultural nature of agriculture and
limited resource endowment of Mauritius such manufacturing will continue to
be largely import-intensive. However, in the future, a vigorous effort
will have to be made to increase the share of value added generated in
manufacturing. Furthermore, to the extent possible manufacturing will have
to rely more on labor intensive technology in order >-o absorb a significant
portion of the growing labor force.
25.       Tourism in Mauritius developed as a major activity in the 1970s.
Before then, most visitors were from the neighboring islands of Reunion and
Madagascar, attracted by cultural and family ties. In the 1970s, largely
with private initiative and with support from Government, tourism developed
strongly. Visitor arrival statistics indicate an average annual rate of
growth of 18.5 percent in the 1970s. Earnings rose much faster, at about
30 percent per year, reflecting both increases in tourist spending and
growth in arrivals from Europe and South Africa. By 1979, tourism had
become the third largest foreign exchange earner, after sugar and
manufactures, and a major source of employment, providing jobs directly and
indirectly, for some 20,000 Mauritians (10 percent of the labor force).
Since 1979, however, the industry has been stagnating, with visitor
arrivals continuing to be at around 10 percent below that year's peak of
128,000 and investment in tourism has declined sharply. There is still
ample scope for further expansion of this sector through adequate
implementation of policies designed to increase tourist arrivals as well as
tourist spending in Mauritius.



-7-
26.       Traditionally. Mauritius has exported sugar and imported food to
satisfy its requirements. The ble4> outlook for world sugar prices, the
limited land potential for expanding sugar production and the growing food
requirements call for a major effort to diversify agricultural production.
Substituting food crops for sugar cultivation is a possibility, but depends
on establishing the economic costs and benefits of the acreage kept under
sugar production and the potential benefits of alternative crops to be
cultivated as a substitute or in association with sugar. This is a complex
issue which also involves the relative split of sugar export proceeds
between Government, planters and millers, possible changes in labor
legislation and a reassessment of wages and other social benefits in the
sugar sector in the light of those prevailing in other parts of the
economy.
27.       Mauritius is almost exclusively dependent on imported energy.
Petroleum imports rose to account for about 20 percent of the import bill
in 1982 from about 7 percent in 1970. Therefore, it has become a matter of
urgency for Government to explore means to conserve energy and to develop
alternative sources to attend the growing needs of the economy.
28.       The high level of unemployment is a major socio-economic
problem.  The Mauritian labor force is likely to increase by 100,000 in the
next decade. It is unlikely that agriculture will generate a significant
number of new employment opportunities during the rest of the 1980s. The
sugar industry, traditionally the major employer, already occupies 90
percent of arable Jand and cannot expand further. In the coming years, the
sugar sector will shed labor as sugar harvesting becomes increasingly
mechanized. Diversification into other crops may at best create enough new
jobs to offset the negative impact of the sugar sub-sector. Employment in
the public sector should not expand further given the already difficult
fiscal situation. Even though tourism is likely to expand significantly,
it will not absorb all the increase in the labor force. With the
progressive introduction of restrictive immigration measures in many labor
importing countries, the main outlet for the growth of Mauritius' labor
force is therefore to be in manufacturing.
29.       The unemployed labor force, at present, is comprised of a large
group of unskilled persons fit only for labor intensive activities and a
small number of unemployed youths with relatively high academic
qualifications. Moreover there are major discrepancies in the level of
remuneration in the various segments of the economy. Paradoxically,
workers involved in productive activity sometimes earn a substantially
lower income than those whose contribution to the productive process is
marginal. In addition, legislation to protect workers' employment rights
has been detrimental to labor mobility and resulted in redundancy in some
parts of the labor market while shortfalls exist in others. Reform of the
labor legislation is one of the key complementary actions to economic
policy measures required to improve the employment prospects in lauritius.
30.       In the longer term, population growth, currently at 1.5 percent,
continues to add to the difficulties of structural adjustment. Mauritius
has made significant progress in developing its population policy but there
is some indication that family planning has reached a plateau. The



-8-
Government is continuing to seek means of strengthening its population
program.
31.       The Government's structural adjustment program for the 1980s
focuses on those policy areas which have the greatest need of fundamental
reform and the greatest potential for improving the balance of payments.
As the preparation and implementation of far-reaching policy reforms
require considerable time, the program is phased and concentrated on a
limited number of sectors at a time. Moreover, phasing of the reforms is
essential to provide the economy with sufficient time to adapt to the new
policy framework.
PART !I - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS2/
32.       To date Mauritius has received five IDA credits and fifteen Bank
loans totalling US$161.8 million, to help finance projects in industry
(US$39.5 million), power (US$22.0 million), ports (US$13.6 million),
agriculture and rural development (US$9.4 million), urban development
(US$15.0 million), water supply (US$12.2 million), education (US$22.2
million) and structural adjustment (US$15.0 million). Our last operation,
a US$15.2 million loan for a Highways project was approved by the Board on
July 26, 1983. IFC made a small loan (US$0.6 million) in 1971 for hotel
development and is currently studying new investment possibilities (Annex
II presents a summary of Bank's operations).
33.       The Bank's operational program in Mauritius has in the last two
to three years moved in the direction of greater emphasis on the dialogue
on macro and sectoral economic policies that the Government intends to
pursue in the medium term as part of the structural adjustment of the
Mauritian economy. In line with this strategy, a first structural
adjustment loan to Mauritius was approved by the Executive Directors in
FY81.
34.       Meanwhile, our efforts to support renewed growth in productive
sectors are being pursued through project lending. The project lending
program generally supports Government's strategy of economic diversifica-
tion and employment creation through projects in public infrastructure,
utilities, and technical education as a means of laying the foundation for
increased industrialization. While the dialogue with the Government on
broader policy matters is being actively pursued under the non-project
assistance program (SAL), specific sector issues, i.e. utility service
rates, sectoral budgets, pricing, cost recovery, etc. are being addressed
in the context of individual projects.
35.        Implementation of current projects is generally satisfactory, and
by and large Mauritian implementing agencies are well able to handle
project responsibilities. Two notable exceptions, however, were the first
rural development project and the tea development project recently
completed. The rural development project had mixed success in achieving
2/ This section is identical with the President's Report for the proposed
Second Loan to Mauritius for Structural Adjustment, Report Number
P3500-MAS.



- 9 -
its objectives. The tea project encountered serious problems caused by
falling international tea prices, inadequacies in project management and
equipment, and lack of interest from smallholders in taking over tea
plots. Government has prepared a plan of action for restructuring the
Mauritius Tea Development Authority with technical assistance under the
Bank T.A. Loan. In addition, a Commission of Inquiry on tea has been set
up to examine the industry-wide problems affecting tea operations in
Mauritius and to make recommendations for a long-term program of action.
36.       Disbursement performance in Mauritius remains close to Bank-wide
average and is in fact on the increase if one includes the quickly
disbursed first SAL program.
37.       Four audit reports on projects in Mauritius have thus far been
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department. Report No 2101 of June
20, 1978 on the first line of credit made to the Development Bank of
Mauritius (Cr. 313-MAS) showed that the project had made a valuable
contribution to development of the Mauritian economy. Report No. 3761 of
December 31, 1981 on the Tea Development Project (Cr. 239-MAS) discussed
the problems encountered by the project, and concluded that it had not been
successful, especially because of the institutional difficulties arising
from the agency created in connection with the project, the Tea Development
Authority. Report No. 4008 of June 28, 1982 on the Coromandel Industrial
Estate (Cr. 411-MAS) concluded that the general objectives of the project
had been met, i.e. facilitating industrial development and employment
generation through provision of serviced sites; however, specific targets
on investment and employment were not achieved. In addition, the financial
performance of the industrial estate has to date been significantly below
expectation. A fourth report on the Rural Development Project, Report No.
3988 of June 22, 1982, was critical of the design of the project,
particularly the failure of its few productive elements.
III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS3/
38.       The First Structural Adjustment Loan for an amount of US$15.0
million was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1981. The loan,
which was not tranched, was fully disbursed in January 1982. This
operation supported a first program of adjustment described in the
Government's "Statement of Development Policy" and complemented a
stabilization program agreed with the IMF. The objective was to provide
balance of payments sunport in the short term in order to prevent
interruption of growth while initiating basic economic reforms for
structural adjustment in the medium term.
The Program
39.       The basic components of the Government's first program of
adjustment were the following:
3/ The material from para. 38 to para. 113 is identical to the President's
Report for the proposed Second Loan to Mauritius for Structural
Adjustment, Report Number P-3500-MAS.



- 10 -
(a) a scaling down and restructuring of the public sector
investment program (PSIP), placing greater emphasis on
infrastructure directly linked to production together
with development of criteria for selection of projects
and review of the PSIP;
(b) implementation of a series of measuwes in industry,
aimed at stimulating production, exports and investment
in this sector;
(c) development of policies and technical solutions to
stimulate agricultural production other than sugar;
(d) preparation of a national energy plan, including an
assessment of the potential use of bagasse for power
generation;
(e) an assessment of the problems facing the tourism
industry;
(f) measures in the education sector to improve efficiency
and contain Government expenditures;
(g) a series of measures in different public sector
agencies aimed at greater efficiency in the public
sector and at reducing demands on the budget; and
(h) strengthening of the institutional capacity for debt
management.
40.       The program did not specify quantitative targets per se.
However, the objective on the balance of payments was to reduce the current
account deficit from about 12 percent of GDP in 1979/80 to about 8 percent
in 1984/85. Also the debt service ratio was to be kept below 15 percent.
B. Progress Achieved
41.       The Government's overall performance in implementing the first
phase of the Adjustment program has been mixed. In large part, this was
due to delays occasioned by the 1982 national elections which made many
ministers unable to take decisions in an uncertain political climate, or
even to undertake studies which were already agreed upon. The
stabilization program, however, was on the whole successfully implemented.
The two devaluations of 1979 and 1981 coupled with the wage restraint
policy did much to restore competitiveness of the economy.
42.       The Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) was substantially
reduced. In current Rupees the program for 1983/84 - 1985/86 is 30 percent
below the program submitted in 1982/83. This revision corresponds to a



- 11 -
greater realism on the part of the Government of Mauritius with regard to
its absorptive capacity and the need to reduce government expenditure to
curb the overall budget deficit.
43.       In the industrial sector, a consulting firm was contracted to
promote foreign investment in Mauritius, and a promotion mission visited
Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong. An Export Service Zone Act
extended the EPZ incentive package to firms engaged in export services or
re-export of merchandise. Agreements on double taxation were reached with
U.K., France and India. An export credit guarantee scheme, managed by DBM,
was introduced followed by an export credit insurance scheme, and an export
promotion unit was established in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
The structure of interest rates was revised and interest ceilings were
removed for all loans except loans to industry and sugar which remained in
force until early 1983.
44.       As an incentive to agricultural diversification, the Government
introduced a scheme by which investors in new projects for agricultural
production are entitled to Development Certificates giving tax advantages
comparable to those available for industry and tourism.     A Committee was
appointed in February 1981 to monitor implementation-of the recommendations
of a Plan of Action for agricultural diversification. Subsequently, six
specialized subcommittees were established to study specific policies,
measures and issues related primarily to rice; livestock and milk; maize;
agricultural marketing; credit; food processing and other facilities;
agricultural research; and fisheries. The subcommittees made a serious
effort to analyze the technical and institutional problems, but were unable
to focus adequately on major policy issues. Therefore the document
prepared on agricultural div,rsification did not contribute much to
defining appropriate policies to stimulate food crops and facilitate
agricultural diversification. Although in late 1982 the consumer prices
for rice and wheat were increased significantly with a view to eventually
abolishing subsidies and promoting consumption of locally produced
substitutes, there has been only limited progress on agricultural
diversification. In fact, expectations on this matter may have been
somewhat unrealistic. As noted above, the definition of measures for
diversification of agriculture depends critically on prior analysis and
conclusions of the Sugar Inquiry Commission.
45.       The Sugar Inquiry Commission was not established until after the
1982 elections. In September 1982, an experienced consultant, well known
to the Bank, was appointed as the Chairman of the Commission which includes
two senior Mauritian economists. Since then, extensive analytical work has
been conducted and public hearings, with the participation of both public
and private sector representatives, have been held. The final report will
be issued in December 1983.
46.       The Government did succeed in formulating an integrated energy
policy in September 1981. An Energy Planning Unit was created within the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, and then transferred to the
Ministry of Energy. The main issue was how to develop power generation



- 12 -
from bagasse. A pre-feasibility study confirmed that there was significant
potential to reduce oil imports by equipping sugar factories with more
efficient generating plants that can use bagasse. One sugar estate has
embarked upon an investment to improve and expand its generating capacity.
Two others are planning similar investments and tenders have been called
for a pilot project for the pelletization of bagasse, a process which is
expected to increase the efficiency of utilization of bagasse for power
generation.   On the demand side, both petroleum and electricity have been
priced at appropriate levels to reflect the import cost of energy and a
daylight saving scheme was introduced.
47.       The study on air access and the study assessing the potential of
tourism were carried out in time.   Hlowever, the study on air access did not
meet expectations and Government had to take the lead in developing policy
proposals for this sector in consultation with tourist operators. These
studies confirmed the need for further action in the development of this
sector, vital for the economy because of its contribution to foreign
exchange earnings and employment.
48.       Only after the 1982 elections did the authorities complete a
strategy paper on education indicating that government expenditures on
education should be limited to 14 percent of the recurrent budget and that
the pupil/teacher ratio should be increased to 30:1 The closing of 21
sub-standard private schools was decided at the end of 1982. A Commission
of Inquiry to resolve other outstanding sector issues was appointed in late
1982 and its findings are expected shortly.
49.        The Government's Statement of Development Policy identified
three majo. parastatals in which a process of restructuring goals,
improving efficiency and redeploying personnel was underway: the Tea
Development Authority (TDA), the Development Works Corporation (DWC) and
the Central Housing Authority (CHA). However, the reform of these
parastatals was only partially carried out. A proposal to restructure TDA
was discussed with the Bank only in November 1982 and a plan to reduce DWC
personnel by 2,000 was completed only in February 1983.
50.        In the past, there were weaknesses in monitoring the external
debt portfolio for the purpose of holding the external debt burden within
manageable limits. The Government, conscious of the recent rapid growth of
its debt service burden, made a special effort to improve its debt
management capacity with the use of computer facilities and technical
assistance from the Bank.
51.        The evaluation of the impact of SAL I on the macroeconomic
performance of Mauritius can only be tentative; since the observed results
cover only the first half of the program period, the national accounts
series have been revised, and the actual economic outcome was influenced by
a number of events outside the program itself. In 1980, owing mainly to
the poor sugar year, real GDP declined by a hefty 10 percent. In the
following two years, however, GDP recovered to its 1979 level. Still the
available information in terms of the major aggregate variables amenable to



- 13 -
Government policy measures is quite favorable. Thus, in the last two
fiscal years, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is
lower as a share of GDP than the SAL I objectives, while the overall
Government deficit is only slightly higher in 1982/83. On the other hand,
the debt service ratio at 20 percent is higher than the SAL target of 15
percent, owing in part to commercial borrowing in early 1982 on harder
terms than anticipated and especially to the depressed sugar prices in
1982.
Table 1
SAL I: Macroeconomic Targets And Performance
Percent of GDP
1980/81      1981/82       1982/83
SAL I Targets
Balance of Payments Current
Account Deficit                      14.0          8.9          8.0
Government Overall Deficit             16.0         13.0         11.0
Debt Service Ratio                      9.1         13.0         15.2
Performance
Balance of Payments Current
Account Deficit                      15.4          6.0          5.4
Government Overall Deficit             13.2         12.8          9.9
Debt Service Ratio                      9.1         13.2         19.7
52.        Overall, the first Structural Adjustment Operation was timely
and its results positive despite the shortcomings in implementation as
noted above. On the one hand it contributed to the mobilization of a
financing package at a time when Mauritius' foreign exchange reserves were
completely exhausted. On the other hand, it helped to develop a dialogue
both internally and with the international community - pertaining to a
large number of sector issues whose adequate solution are critical for the
achievement of sustained growth of output and employment. Also, the
discussions on the different components of SAL I helped the emergence of a
general consensus among different segments of political opinion in
Mauritius on the urgency and content of the future policy reforms required
by the economy. This in turn set the stage for further action on the part
of the authorities as contemplated in the proposed Second Structural
Adjustment Loan.
53.        At the second meeting of the Mauritius Consultative Group, which
was held June 1 and 2, 1983 under the auspices of the World Bank, the
Government presented its diagnosis of the situation and prospects of the



- 14 -
Mauritian economy and its program of policy reforms to restore economic
growth. To meet the challenge presented by high unemployment, heavy debt
service obligations, and minimal foreign exchange reserves, the Government
has strengthened its structural adjustment program to further promote
export-led industrialization, renewed growth of tourism, the restructuring
of the sugar industry and agricultural diversification. The meeting
endorsed the view that the proposed policy reforms were appropriate and
that the Government's investment program appeared generally sound and
compatible with the structural adjustment program. Participating
delegations indicated that they would be prepared to support the
Government's efforts through special balance of payments assistance.
54.        The second phase of the Mauritius structural adjustment program
was endorsed by the new Government elected in August 1983. The program is
described in a Statement of Development Policy dated September 29, 1983
(Annex III). The following are the highlights.
A. The Program For Export-Led Industrialization
55.        The program in industry is comprehensive. -The four prongs of
this program are the following: (i) maintaining Mauritius' export
competitiveness vis-a-vis other countries competing in the same markets;
(ii) reforming the system of export incentives to extend it to all firms
involved, directly or indirectly, in export activity; (iii) attracting
foreign investment and technology which is considered as the most effective
means of expanding exports of manufactured products; and (iv) encouraging
private investment by strengthening the equity base of Mauritian
enterprises and providing them with adequate capital.
(i) Maintaining Export Competiveness
56.        Mauritius has two significant advantages with respect to
manufacturing for export markets. First, it has an abundant supply of
unskilled and semi-skilled workers who are willing to offer their services
in return for relatively modest wages and who can be easily trained.
Second, it enjoys duty-free access to the European Common Market. The
relative importance of the second advantage is declining as other
developing countries take advantage of their own preferential access to
that market.
57.        Comparative data suggest that Mauritius is reasonably
competitive with many other developing countries in terms of wage rates and
unit wage costs. Today, the dollar-equivalent wage rates paid by export
companies in Mauritius are lower than those of many countries of comparable
per capita income albeit higher than those of Bangladesh, China, India,
Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Relative unit wage costs can be maintained unless
inflation gets out of hand or exchange rate management becomes inadequate.
In this context, keeping the exchange rate at an appropriate level is the
single most important policy measure that Government can follow to preserve



- 15 -
and enhance the development of manufactured exports from Mauritius. The
Rupee is not believed to be overvalued at the current rate of exchange, but
active management of the rate will be needed to prevent future
misalignment. Government intends to keep the exchange rate under constant
review.
(ii) Reform of the Export Incentive System
58.        Unifying Export Incentives:   The Government intends to merge and
modify the "development certificate" and "export certificate" schemes.    A
Development Certificate Scheme was introduced in 1964 to encourage the
formation of import substituting industries. In 1970, an export incentive
scheme was created for export industries. At the end of 1982 there were
120 manufacturing enterprises holding a Development Certificate and 110
holding an Export Certificate.
59.       Development Certificate firms are exempted from company tax for a
period of five years if they take the initial depreciation allowance, or
eight years if they do not. Dividends paid to shareholders are tax-free
(individual income tax) for a period of five years from start of
production. Imports of capital goods are free of duty.
60.       Export Certificate firms now enjoy full relief from company tax
for ten years, 50 percent relief in years 11-15, and 25 percent relief in
years 16-20. During the first ten years they can pay tax-free dividends to
their owners for five years (beginning with the first year that dividends
are paid). The firms are exempted with respect to import duties on capital
goods and machinery, as well as current material imports. They are also
exempted from paying the stamp duty, which is currently 12 percent of
import value.
61.       Recently, an Export Service Certificate was created to encourage
entrepot and service activities in Mauritius. Holders enjoy a flat ten
percent tax rate for at least ten and not more than twenty years. They are
also permitted to pay tax-free dividends to owners for five years,
beginning with the first year that dividends are paid.
62.       Tax relief is also available to firms outside the certificate
schemes if they export items other than sugar, sugar by-products, tea, and
tobacco. This relief was allowed for five consecutive years as from
July 1, 1981, and may be renewed for another five years. If the firm is
new, it can deduct an amount equal to five percent of the export value
achieved during its first year of operation from otherwise chargeable
income. If not new, the firm can deduct an amount equal to five percent of
the increase in the f.o.b. export value in the income year, relative to a
base period. The base period is normally the preceding three years. Base
period values are adjusted upward by an arbitrary factor of ten percent per
year to allow for inflation.



- 16 -
63.        Non-certificate companies have to pay import and stamp duties
when their imports enter Mauritius, but can request drawback with respect
to duties paid for imports embodied in subsequent exports. Development
certificate holders enjoy the same right of drawback.
64.        To encourage all firms to export the Government has decided to
merge the Export Certificate and Development Certificate schemes by
granting, on a pro rata basis of their exports, the same incentives.
Furthermore, to reduce some of the costs to EPZ firms, specific measures
will be taken so they could sell part of their products on the local
market.
65.        Abolishing Quantitative Import Restrictions:   Mauritius provides
tariff and non-tariff protection to local industries. Ad valorem import
duties and other taxes on imports together range from zero to 200 percent
on the value of imports. In October 1981 the "stamp duty" of five percent
was extended to cover nearly three-fifths of all imports, by value, and the
rate was later raised to twelve percent.
66.        The import licensing (non-tariff protection) is done on a
case-by-case basis by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The procedure
is discretionary, and is administered in such a way as to limit imports to
about one-fifth of domestic demand if local producers are capable of
supplying the other four-fifths. This is a de facto system of import
quotas, the full extent of which is not known. These import quotas
discourage efficiency in local industries. Even if the domestic company
agrees to a local sales price that is equal to or less than the prevailing
c.i.f. import price plus tariff at the time of negotiating an import
license, Mauritian consumers have no assurance that declining world prices
(resulting from improved technologies or increased competition among
suppliers) will be matched by declining local prices. More importantly,
quantitative import restrictions encourage production for the domestic
market and discourage production for exports.
67.        Government has agreed to eliminate the current discretionary
system of industrial protection, via import licensing, by gradually
shifting to a generalized, time-phased program of declining tariffs. In
the meantime Government has already undertaken to stop granting new
quantitative import restrictions.
68.        The precise nature of the program of action to follow will be
identified by a major Industrial Policy Review (IPR) already launched, and
to be completed by July 1984 (Annex IV).
(iii) Attracting Foreign Investment for Exports
69.        The Government has recently passed legislation (September 13,
1983) establishing a new entity, the Mauritius Export Development and
Investment Authority (MEDIA), to promote foreign investment and export
sales. MEDIA, an autonomous institution, will enable prospective investors



- 17 -
to deal with only one agency for obtaining all the necessary information
and clearances to start and operate an industr7l in Mauritius.
70.        The principal functions of MEDIA are:   (i) to promote, assist
and develop exports from Mauritius; (ii) to engage in investment
promotional activities designed to promote Mauritius as an attractive base
for the establishment of export-led industries; (iii) to plan, implement
and review programs of action for the development of exports and investment
in industries manufacturing for export; (iv) to develop and manage
industrial sites and buildings within the framework of the National
Physical Development Plan; and (v) to advise Government on all matters
relating to the development of exports and investment promotion.
71.        MEDIA will re-organize the current export and investment
promotion functions of the Ministry of Industry and Cooperatives. It
will act as a contact point for potential foreign investors and foreign
importers, provide them with all necessary information and put them in
contact with local businessmen as well as advise them.   MEDIA will also
assist in matters such as designs, product development, packaging,
advertising and after-sales services.
72.       The Government considers MEDIA crucial for export promotion and
export-led industrialization, and has requested financial assistance to
ensure that the unit gets launched properly and without delay. The Bank
is accordingly proposing to include US$0.5 million in the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan, being processed simultaneously with the SAL-II
Loan, to cover 66 percent of MEDIA's operating expenses for the years FY
84-86. Thereafter, Government and the private sector will meet all
expenses.
(iv) Encouraging Private Investment
73.        Providing Fiscal Incentives:   In Mauritius resident companies
are taxed after distribution of dividends. This method of company
taxation: (a) encourages distribution of earnings, (b) discourages
investment, and (c) produces unacceptable debt/equity ratios. The
existing tax system also differentiates in favor of "public" companies. At
present, the effective tax rate on the retained profits of resident public
companies is 55 percent. The same rate is 66 percent on privately-held
companies that do not permit their shares to be traded. The top marginal
rate of personal income tax, on the other hand, is 70 percent. To a
potential investor these rates appear prima facie to be very high.
74.        Based on IMF recommendations, Government has decided to lower
the existing tax rates on companies and introduce a tax payable at the
source before distribution of profits. This is a first step and the rates
will progressively be unified over a period of time. Reducing nominal tax
rates from the existing levels should improve investor perceptions. In
addition, the companies' balance sheets should be improved and the firms'
ability to borrow should be increased.



- 18 -
75.        Given the difficulty of anticipating the full reaction of
companies and shareholders to the new tax system, a few years of experience
will be needed in order to see whether the change has indeed provided
sufficient incentive for companies to retain a higher proportion of their
earnings.
76.        Strengthening the Capital Base of Export Industries:    As
indicated earlier, many manufacturing companies in Mauritius exhibit
fragile balance sheets and there is a need to improve the capital base of
Mauritian enterprises. While the business income tax reform is designed to
reduce the incentive to pay out an excessive share of profits to
shareholders, additional steps will be needed to lower financial gearing
ratios and make companies more attractive for commercial bank loans.
Government has, with Legislation dated September 9, 1983, created a
Mauritius Equity Financing Fund (MEFF) to bolster the equity position of
export industries that show promise of success.
77.        The initial capital of MEFF will be Rs 100 million.    A Board of
Trustees consisting of public and private sector representatives is being
identified at this time and steps are being taken to select a full-time
professional Manager to supervise the NEFF. The Development Bank of
Mauritius (DBM) will provide space and staff support to the MEFF in return
for an annual fee.
78.        MEFF will give priority to manufacturing for exports, and will
be prepared to match, rupee for rupee, bona fide cash equity contributions
made by owners of existing and new companies. During the first year of its
existence, however, the MEFF will favor existing companies with proven
track records. As operating experience is acquired, NEFF will increase its
assistance to new companies. Cumulative participating preference shares
and other financial instruments will be used by the MEFF as vehicles for
assisting companies. The assistance will be structured in such a way that
the beneficiaries will be stimulated to buy NEFF ownership out as quickly
as profits permit.
79.        It is anticipated that DBM and the commercial banks of Mauritius
will collaborate with the MEFF by providing loans to the assisted
companies. Provisional assurance of such collaboration will be obtained as
required before NEFF assistance is approved. While the MEFF will be
prepared to take sizable business risks, it is not intended to be a
charitable institution. The decision to assist or not to assist companies
will be based on thorough appraisal of financial and economic prospects,
with collateral security as a secondary consideration. Early approvals
will relate mostly to established enterprises with identified markets,
where capital is needed for expansion. NEFF will require a positive return
from its investments in successful enterprises in order to avoid
decapitalization. Preference shares and similar instruments will require
service ahead of common shares.
80.       Reducing The Cost of Foreign Exchange Transactions:    Although the
commercial banking system in Mauritius is reasonably efficient, weaknesses



- 19 -
exist in the area of foreign exchange transactions. The buy-sell spread
has been very large on currencies other than the Pound Sterling and the
U.S. Dollar, running about four percent on French Francs and Deutschemark
and three percent on the Japanese Yen. Conversions between the Mauritius
Rupee and the latter three currencies (and others) have traditionally been
made through the Pound Sterling. In May 1983 the Bank of Mauritius
reviewed the situation and reduced the margin authorized to commercial
banks for transactions in foreign exchange.    Recently the Government has
requested the assistance of the IMF to review the costs and other terms of
foreign exchange transactions.
B. The Program for Tourism Development
81.        Tourism plays an important role in Mauritius.   It contributes
about 10 percent of foreign exchange earnings and provides employment for
about 20,000 people (10 percent of the labor force). Through most of the
1970s the Government's role in tourism was supportive of the sector's
expansion, and was largely expressed through the incentives granted to
investors through Development Certificates and financing guarantees. The
Government began its own tourism promotion activity with the first campaign
of the Mauritius Government Tourism Office (MGTO) launched in Britain in
1977-78.
82.       In recent years there has been a decline in receipts from tourism
as a result of continued world recession combined with the erosion of
Mauritius' competitive position vis-a-vis other tourist destinations.
During 1974-79, principally because of the distance to major markets, tour
prices to Mauritius were around 15-20 percent higher than for comparable
holidays in the Caribbean or Sri Lanka. Tour price increases for European
visitors in 1980 widened this differential to around 35-40 percent.
Although price movements have diverged less sharply since then, the
differential between prices in Mauritius and in approximately comparable
beach hotels in Kenya and Sri Lanka has remained in this range. For South
African visitors also, Mauritius has become a less attractive destination
with prices in the 1982/83 season being only marginally lower than
comparable holiday packages to more dz.stant destinations such as Portugal
and Spain. Each component of the tour price (airfares, hotel, and other
ground costs) has contributed to the relative loss of competitive position,
but increases in air fare, cumulatively more than 40 percent in real terms
since 1979, have had the largest impact.
83.       Limited direct air access to Mauritius has been the most
important single factor behind the rising cost of air fares. This can be
seen from comparing the Mauritian experience with that of other countries;
while tourist arrivals in Mauritius are now running at around 10 percent
below the 1979 level, increases in the same period in countries with
relatively free air access range from 23 percent for Thailand to 37 percent



- 20 -
for Cyprus. In Sri Lanka, where there are no restrictions on air carriers,
tourist arrivals increased by 63 percent. The limited air-access also
threatens the viability of new investments in tourism.
84.       The Government has prepared a comprehensive program for tourism
based on a strategy to maximize foreign exchange earnings. The program
aims at increasing the number of tourists by: (a) improving the
accessibility of Mauritius; (b) better promotion in existing and new
markets; and (c) expanding room capacity. The program also includes
measures to stimulate tourism spending.
85.       The program relies on the adoption of air access policies to
maximize the flow of tourist arrivals, requiring an immediate expansion of
the air route network serving Mauritius. To this end discussions have
already begun to negotiate traffic rights for potentially important tourist
markets in the Gulf States and Australia. Within the framework of existing
agreements, Air Mauritius (the national cartier) has begun analyzing the
potential viability of new services and traffic points and the require-
ments, including additional aircraft capacity, needed to provide such
services. Air Mauritius is also exploring the potential for regional
pooling of traffic rights and services with Seychelles.
86.       Following this strategy, the initiative in introducing new
services falls on Air Mauritius rather than on foreign airlines or charter
carriers. The airline has concluded an agreement for special flights for
Italian tourists, and between December 1983 and April 1984 will start
operating weekly exclusive tourist services from Rome. The possibilities
for other charter services to tourist points not served by the scheduled
airlines are being investigated, and these possibilities, together with the
opportunities for new and expanded scheduled airline services, make it
reasonable to target inauguration of two new services (by Air Mauritius or
others) for the 1983-84 season. Assuming Boeing 707 aircraft capacities
for the new services, airline capacity for tourists during the peak season
of 1983-84 would thus increase by about 25 percent.
87.       Air service expansion envisaged under the program needs to be
supported by improved promotion activity by both public and private sector
tourism interests. The Government will intensify its promotion program in
the main tourist generating countries to sustain the growth in existing
markets and to tap new sources. The Government has a7reed to a substantial
increase in the budget of the MGTO and has indicated that the MGTO budget
should exceed Rs 14 million, the level required to restore the 1979 dollar
equivalent value of promotion activities. It has also agreed to give MGTO
greater financial autonomy within the overall public sector financial
control framework. MGTO has planned an extended tourism promotion campaign
for 1984, and has submitted an annual work program in support of its budget
request. Also the Government will commission a study of new market
potential and of the market strategies needed to exploit this potential.
Separate studies on the Australian and U.S. markets are being considered
with bilateral financing.



- 21 -
88.       Taking into account the interest expressed by investors in
projects to expand hotel bed capacity, the Government will take measures to
insure the granting of investment incentives and permits for construction
starts on 600 new rooms by January 1984. It is expected that the total
availability of rooms by the end of 1984 will be 2,650 compared to 2,200
now and reach 2,900 rooms by the end of 1985. Some of this additional
capacity may come from a program to classify, licence, and assist in the
marketing of private rental bungalows of appropriate standards which have
recently been built.
89.       The Government has also examined taxes affecting tourism and will
reduce selected taxes and surcharges contingent upon assurances of
compensating reductions in retail tariffs. The objective is to improve
price competitiveness, encourage longer stays and increase tourist spending
in Mauritius.
90.       The Government's program for tourism was developed by a
Ministerial Comnittee, chaired by the Minister for External Affairs,
Tourism, and Immigration. A reporting and monitoring system for the
tourism sector has been organized. This Committee will also monitor
progress in separate but related plans affecting tourism development
including the renovation of Plaisance Airport, improvements to road
connections serving the airport, and plans to extend the development impact
of tourism through construction of airstrips and improved accommodation on
other islands including Rodrigues and Agalega.
91.       A more widely-based consultative process has also been initiated
for the approval of air fares and freight rates. These will now be
considered by ani inter-Ministerial committee chaired by the Finance
Ministry and including Ministries responsible for tourism, planning, and
communications, consulting with Air Mauritius, the Board of Airlines, and
user groups as appropriate.
C. The Program for Agricultural Diversification
92.       Agriculture, dominated by sugar, continues to be the most
important economic activity in Mauritius. The Government intends to focus
its efforts on restructuring the sugar industry and diversifying
agricultural production. The two objectives are linked since sugar
dominates agricultural production and cultivable acreage. Any measure to
extend agricultural diversification would be complementary to or a
substitute for sugar production. Establishing the economic costs and
benefits of the acreages kept under sugar cultivation is, therefore, a
precondition to diversification into other crops.
93.       The Government has set up a Commission of Inquiry on the Sugar
Industry. This constitutes a decisive step toward defining future
agricultural policy in Mauritius.    Its terms of reference are extensive
and address all issues relevant to the sugar industry including managerial



- 22 -
and social questions. The present timetable for the Commission calls for a
final report by December 1983. Thereafter discussions would take place
between the Bank and the Government on a specific action program.
94.       It would be difficult to identify specific short-term remedies
for the sugar industry in the absence of the comprehensive policy framework
expected to be formulated by the Commission. Nevertheless, without waiting
for the results of the Commission, the Government in July 1982 decided to
reduce slightly the export tax on sugar to ease the tight financial
situation of the sugar industry.   It might eventually be more appropriate
to replace the export tax on sugar by, for example, a tax on land. The
Sugar Commission of Inquiry is expected to make recommendations on this
matter.
95.       Agricultural diversification aims at encouraging more efficient
utilization of scarce land and at increasing food crop production. A
package of measures including pricing, marketing, and research is designed
to shift consumer demand from imported food toward locally produced food,
while simultaneously stimulating the supply of locally produced goods. The
Government's objective is to encourage domestic production through the
extension of guaranteed prices to paddy, ginger, and groundnuts. Subsidies
on imported rice and flour are gradually being reduced to stimulate
substitution of locally produced food commodities.
96.       The Government intends to set up an Agricultural Diversification
Corporation (ADC) which will co-ordinate the use of underutilized Crown
lands as well as uneconomic tea lands. An inventory of all Crown lands is
being carried out and a study group has been set up to make an in-depth
review of the tea sector. The Government also intends to establish a Land
Bank Authority that will be responsible for zoning lands and will have
pre-emptive rights on land transactions. The Land Bank will be empowered
to licence all sales of land and will be able to purchase land for eventual
sale. This would inter alia prevent agricultural land from being directed
to housing purposes. The Government further intends to take measures to
prevent fragmentation of sugar lands which has in the past resulted in the
emergence of uneconomic units.
97.       Another possible area of action for food import substitution and
for export development is the fishing 1udustry. Despite its potential in
fishing, Mauritius does not have at present a well-developed, local fishing
industry. The Government would like to promote a fishing industry and to
formulate a strategy for its development. A study will be carried out
under the Technical Assistance Project to: (a) review existing fisheries
studies and resource surveys concentrating on the nature of the resource
and the history of its exploitation; and (b) review the comparative
advantage, markets and commercial viability of different fisheries
development activities.
98.       The Government has also undertaken to reduce Mauritian dependence
on meat and milk imports. The target is to produce, by 1990, 40 percent of
the country's meat requirement through livestock development. A major



- 23 -
program of technical and financial assistance has been negotiated with the
French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration and the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique to support the development of the meat and milk
sector.
D. Promotion Of Employment
99.       The Government is deeply concerned by the high level of
unemployment currently prevailing in Mauritius (about 25 percent). It aims
at alleviating this situation mainly by growth-related measures in the
productive sectors as described before, but also through changes in wage
legislation and improvements in training and the education system.
100.      The existing labor legislation and the mechanism for wage
negotiations are cumbersome, create wage inequities, and prevent labor
mobility among various sectors. Legal arrangements and practices governing
public involvement in private employer-employee relations are also
complicated. They constitute ad-hoc, frequently detailed minimum wage
orders for particular groups of workers, various arbitration and dispute
settlement procedures and other regulations affecting collective bargaining
and organizational relationships. Furthermore, in the public sector the
existence of an independent Civil Service Arbitration Tribunal obstructs
the development of an orderly internal wage structure for civil servants
and lays the foundatiGn for a continuing series of demands for correction
of alleged inequities created by individual and uncoordinated arbitration
awards. This distorts the governmental responsibility for the setting and
administration of an equitable and efficient-salary structure that is
consonant with economic and budgetary limitations.
101.      The Government's objective is to continue with a policy of wage
restraint, in order both to maintain the competitiveness of Mauritian
export industry and to reduce the government budget deficit. It has also
decided to take action on some non-monetary components of compensation, for
example by reducing the excessive number of paid national holidays. The
principal area of concern, of course, is to ensure not only that the real
wage is competitive but that labor productivity is attractive to new
investors at that wage. Government is aware of the complexity of these
issues and recognizes the importance of maintaining and improving
productivity. It is also concerned with the existing and future obstacles
to absorb and redeploy labor.
102.      The Government intends to review the existing mechanism for wage
negotiations and the system of setting minimum wages for individual
categories of workers. A parliamentary committee has recently made
recommendations for a major revision of the Industrial Relations Act and
the authorities have decided to undertake a study of the effectiveness of
the civil service. The mandate of the Sugar Commission includes an
analysis of labor cost and a review of the labor legislation governing the
sugar sector. Government has requested the Bank to finance, as part of the



- 24 -
Technical Assistance loan, a study of the mechanism for minimum wage
negotiations.
103.      The elimination of legal and other impediments to the efficient
use of labor needs to be complemented by vigorous positive reasures to
encourage the upgrading of workers through appropriate education and
training to facilitate their movement into more productive occupations. In
the short run the Government has indicated that it will stabilize
government employment at the present level and will redeploy 2,000 DWC
workers. Among the actions likely to be required are expansion of
industrial and apprenticeship training and improved employment exchange
services and programs to deal with the special and often acute problems
confronting youthful entrants to the labor force.
104.      The Government is exploring means to stimulate and encourage
workers to take greater advantage of opportunities for temporary employment
in Middle Eastern and other countries. A contract has been signed with the
Government of Zimbabwe for 260 private school teachers. Government is also
encouraging teachers to sign contracts with the Seychelles and several Gulf
companies have been authorized to recruit in Mauritius.
E. Public Resource Management
105.      Fiscal Policy:   Expansionary fiscal policy has been one of the
major factors behind Mauritian financial imbalances since 1979. The
Government recognizes that growth of current expenditures needs to be
contained. Before proceeding with expenditure reductions, there is a need
for a general review of public programs, so as to curb those which are
least cost-effective. Such a comprehensive review is being conducted with
IM? assistance.
106.      The IMF is also providing assistance for a reform of the tax
system in order to diversify the tax base and increase revenues. A 5
percent sales tax has already gone into effect early in 1983 and is
expected to bring in additional revenue of Rs 190 million, equivalent to
about 10 percent of existing government revenue. Also, the Government is
developing a program designed to improve: (a) tax administration; (b)
income tax collection; and (c) proceeds from taxes on real estate. In
addition, to cut down on tax evasion, the Government has set up a Unified
Income Board as well as an Income Tax Tribunal.
107.      To improve the monitoring of overall public expenditures, the
Ministry of Finance will consolidate the accounts of the Pension Fund, of
Local Governments and of the non-financial public enterprises with those of
the Central Government. At present the accounting system of Local
Governments cannot be reconciled with the Central Government accounts. To
strengthen monitoring and policy formulation a generally-accepted
accounting framework (OCAM) will be adopted as the basis for bookkeeping
operations in the public sector.



- 25 -
108.      Public Sector Investment Program:   The envisaged level of public
capital expenditure over the next three years should not impose an undue
strain on the financing capacity of the economy. The present three-year
Public Sector Investment Program beginning July 1983 has been reduced by
Rs 600 million (30 percent) compared with the previous program. The
revised PSIP reflects the Government structural adjustment strategy by
giving priority to the productive sectors. The share of investments in the
productive sectors (agriculture, tourism and industry) represents
24 percent of the total three-year program. 'The share of investment in
utilities has been reduced from 19 percent in the previous program to
12 percent. The share in public infrastructure (road, airport and. port)
has been increased from 7 percent to 16 percent. However, some expensive
new infrastructure projects have been dropped and a number of
implementation schedules delayed to align the program with financial
stabilization targets and provide room for allocation of funds for tourism
and the newly established MEFF. Investment for the airport has been
reduced as a result of the decision to renovate the Plaisance airport
rather than to proceed with new air terminal facilities.
109.      In current Drices the revised PSIP will increase from Rs 1141
million in 1982/83 to Rs 1608 million in 1985/86, i.e. by 40 percent. In
real terms, the increase will be around 10 percent during this period. On
an annual basis, the real increase is concentrated in 1985-86 when the
financial capacity of the Government is expected to recover. The
Government expects that restraining public borrowing for capital
expenditure in the next couple of years will permit some further and
desirable scope for the financing of private activities.



- 26 -
Table 2. Public Sector Investment Program, 1982/83 - 1985/86
(Rs million current prices)
TOTAL
83/84-85/86
Sector                            1983/84   1984/85    1985/86       %
Agriculture & Rural
Development                       196       290        267       17.6
Industry & Tourism                   71       105        105        6.6
Water, Sewerage & Urban
Infrastructure                    175       177        339       16.2
Energy                              233       117         39        9.1
Telecommunications                   34        56         50        3.3
Roads and Road Transport             57       137        162        8.3
Housing                              92         98       104        6.9
Education                            40         55        65        3.7
Health                               56         63        69        4.4
Airport and Ports                    72        80        160        7.3
Dev. Works & Others                 219        238       248       16.6
Total                       1245      1416      1608        100
Annual increase in 1982 prices        -          3%        7%
PSIP in the Bank's last economic
report (current prices)          1846       2042       2204
110.      The Ministry of Planning has recently issued guidelines for the
preparation of new public investment projects.    These project guidelines
conform with generally accepted principles of economic appraisal. All
project costs and benefits are expressed in border prices and approaches
will be adopted which appropriately reflect the scarcity of land and the
availability of labor in Mauritius. Under SAL I the Government had agreed
to consult the Bank before including any project in excess of Rs 100
mil]ion in the Public Sector Investment Program. This limit will be
retained under SAL II.
111.      The Program for Restructuring Parastatal Enterprises:    The
Government has undertaken a program to reinforce the efficiency of
parastatals, and it has requested Bank assistance in restructuring DWC,
CHA, and TDA. The Development Works Corporation (DWC) which employs about
6,000 workers will be transformed into a public contractor and will be
given financial autonomy by December 1984. Some 2,000 workers engaged in
forestry and agricultural activities are being redeployed to the Ministry
of Agriculture. As for the Central Housing Authority (CHA), the
Government's objective is to reduce its dependence on Government assistance
and to make it a viable housing institution. As a first step, the
Government will undertake a study on CHA management. The role of the CHA
in the public housing program will also be reexamined.



- 27 -
112.      The Tea Development Authority (TDA) receives an annual subsidy of
about Rs 60 million from the central government budget. In order to
improve its financial efficiency it has been decided that TDA will offer
tea plots of between 1 and 2 arpents each to TDA trainees and pluckers (the
available cultivated tea land is 2,895 arpents). As many as 1,500
smallholders from TDA surplus staff may take plots over the next three
years. Some of the other 1,300 surplus TDA employees will be redeployed to
more productive work during this three year period. This program
should result in a doubling of tea export earnings by 1986.   Although
Government will have to continue to subsidize TDA, this proposal is
considered economically acceptable since the domestic resource costs are
expected to be lowered to a level equivalent to about 8 Rupees per US
dollar of export earnings in 1984/85. The Government has set up a study
group to examine the economic and financial viability of the Mauritius Tea
Industry as a whole. Annex VI describes in detail the Government action
program for tea and TDA.
113.      Debt Monitoring and Management:   The Government has made progress
in monitoring central government borrowing and transactions on foreign
loans. Further, the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development has
acquired computer facilities, and now has the capacity to provide analysis
of the financial impact of new foreign borrowing and its implications for
creditworthiness.  Borrowing and transactions on central government debt
are now closely monitored by the Acccountant General's Office. To improve
debt reporting by parastatals and government-guaranteed agencies, the
Government has instructed all parastatals and agencies to report the status
of individual loan transactions to the Accountant General and to the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
1i4.      The technical assistance requirements to be met from the proposed
loan were first identified during the Economic Mission that visited
Mauritius in October-November 1982. This early work was followed up during
the joint appraisal of the Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance
Loans in February 1983. It is recognized that technical assistance would be
required to formulate and implement reform programs in key areas of
structural adjustment. The main elements of the technical assistance
program requested by the Government have been included in the Statement of
Development Policy submitted to the Bank in support of a request for a
structural adjustment loan to Mauritius. The project therefore forms an
integral part of the economic structural adjustment program. Assistance to
the Tea Development Authority and the Sugar Commission of Inquiry was
started in January 1983 and an advance of US$525,000 from the Project
Preparation Facility was approved to support these initial activities.
Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington D.C. from May 10
to 17, 1983. The Mauritian delegation was headed by the Minister of



- 28 -
Finance. A Loan and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this
Report and Annex III contains supplemental project data.
Project Objectives
115.      The major objective of the project is to support the structural
adjustment program of Mauritius by providing expert advice and
implementation assistance in key areas of the economy. The elements of the
structural adjustment program to be supported by the proposed loan are as
follows:
(i) increase exports and attract new foreign investment;
(ii) increase foreign exchange earnings from tourism;
(iii) restructure the sugar and tea industries and diversify
agricultural production;
(iv) eliminate excessive labor regulations and other impediments to
the efficient use of labor and to encourage the movement of
workers into more productive occupations in the industrial
sector;
(v)   increase the efficiency of the public sector.
Specifically, the project would provide advisory services, special studies,
implementation assistance and material support to carry out the program
summarized above. Details of the project components are provided in the
paragraphs below and a schedule for implementation of project studies is
provided in Annex V.
Detailed Features
Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority (MEDIA)
116.      The development of export-oriented industry must remain the major
priority for Mauritius. Intensification of the industrial promotion effort
is the focal point of the structural adjustment program. To this end, a
number of measures are to be taken by the Government to maintain the
competitiveness of Mauritius as a base for export-oriented industry;
measures which include a more responsive management of the foreign exchange
rate, and the possible replacement of the present system of protection for
new industries by a general time-phased program of declining tariffs,
liberalization of interest rates and the creation of an Equity Financing
Fund.
117.      A major component of the Government's program of support for
export-oriented industry is the creation of a Mauritius Export Development
and Investment Authority (MEDIA) to reorganize the current export and
investment promotion functions of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
The specific functions of the authority are:



- 29 -
(i) promote, assist and develop exports from Mauritius;
(ii) engage in investment promotional activities designed to promote
Mauritius as an attractive base for the establishment of
export-led industries;
(iii) plan, implement and review programs of action for the development
of exports and investment in industries producing for export;
(iv) develop and manage industrial sites and buildings within the
framework of the National Physical Development Plan; and
(v) advise Government on all matters relating to the development of
exports and investment promotion.
118.      Legislation for the creation of MEDIA has been enacted into law
following parliamentary review on September 13, 1983. The Authority is an
autonomous body under a board of directors comprising representatives of
the public and private sectors. Its staff will be limited to seven or
eight individuals, and will include at least one economist and a market
specialist. Financing for MEDIA will be provided initially by the
Government with additional rrivate sector funding after the Authority is
well established. The Government has obtained assurances from officials of
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Export Processing Zone
Association of their readiness to contribute to the financing of MEDIA's
promotional activities. The Government has requested Bank assistance in
financing the services of a manager to head MEDIA for three years. The
Government will submit to the Bank detailed information on the proposed
organizational structure of the Authority as well as Government's proposals
for methods of mobilizing private sector financing for MEDIA's continued
operation after the initial start-up period.
119.      Initial funding for MEDIA must be adequate to permit operations
on a scale likely to have a significant impact. It is important that the
Authority employ top professional staff who would, in addition, recruit
highly specialized consultants from countries where this type of activity
has met with notable success. Adequate financial support for MEDIA during
its start up phase is, therefore, essential. Current estimates of the
appropriate level of funding for MEDIA's operating costs (including
consultants) are approximately US$500,000 equivalent per annum. In
addition to the head of MEDIA, the proposed loan would finance the services
of such short term consultants as may be required as well as MEDIA's
operating costs (both foreign and local) on a declining scale, i.e. 70
percent in the first year, 50 percent in the second year, and 30 percent in
the third year. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that for the
first three years and each year thereafter, the Government would provide to
MEDIA sufficient funds to cover the balance of its operating costs (Section
3.06, draft Loan Agreement). The Government will consult with the Bank on
MEDIA's annual work programs and proposed budgets (Section 3.06, draft Loan
Agreement.



- 30 -
Mauritius Equity Financing Fund
120.      Many manufacturing companies in Mauritius exhibit fragile balance
sheets and there is a need to improve the capital base of Mauritian
enterprises. Government passed legislation on September 9, 1983 to
establish an Equity Financing Fund to bolster the equity position of
manufacturing concerns that show promise of success. Government intends to
donate Rs 100 million, in stages, to create the Mauritius Equity Financing
Fund (MEFF). A Board of Trustees is being identified at this time, and the
Government intends to recruit a full-time professional manager to supervise
the MEFF. Funds for the manager for 24 months ha-ve been included in the
proposed technical assistance loan.
121.     The Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) will provide space and
staff support to the MEFF Manager in return for an annual fee. The NEFE'
has its own legal identity, however, and will have no link with DBM other
than services for a fee. Funds contributed by the Government will be
placed in interest-bearing financial instruments and thereby become an
endowment. Interest earnings are expected to be sufficient to cover NEFF
expenses for a considerable period of time.
122.     In considering applications for MEFF assistance, companies
manufacturing primarily for export will be favored, but efficient
import-substituting firms will also receive consideration. The MEFF will
be prepared to match bona fide cash equity contributions made by owners of
existing and new companies. During the first year of its existence,
however, the NEFF will favor existing companies with proven track records.
As operating experience is acquired, MEFF will increase its assistance to
new business formations.
Tourism
123.      To achieve the projected improvement in the resource balance,
Mauritius will need a significant growth in gross foreign exchange earnings
from tourism. The Government is taking a number of steps under its
structural adjustment program to encourage this growth including:    changes
in Mauritius' air access policy, improved promotion of tourism and an
increase in investment in accommodations. Market expansion and improved
penetration in existing markets will require additional promotion activity
and a substantial increase in the budget of the Mauritius Government
Tourist Office (MGTO). Under the project, an increase in the promotional
budget of US$800,000 equivalent is proposed for 1983/84, with a similar
increase for the following financial year as part of Government
contribution to the financing of the project. Assurances to this effect
have been given during negotiations (Section 3.05, draft Loan Agreement).
124.     The proposed project includes a study to be carried out by a firm
of management consultants (6 man/months) of the organization, staffing,
training and promotional programs of the MGTO and to recommend appropriate
changes (including budget levels) to enable the Office to handle a larger



- 31 -
promotional program. Proposals for training of MGTO staff arising from the
study would also be financed with project funds.
125.     A second study to be carried out by an expert with extensive
experience in tourism and air service marketing (4 man/months) would
propose appropriate air travel marketing strategies for tourist flights to
Mauritius from new and traditional markets and recommend a market
intelligence gathering and monitoring system to provide information to the
Government on the potential for developing these markets.
126.    It is expected that both studies described above would commence in
June 1984 and the consultants' findings and recommendations would be
available for review with the Bank no later than December 1984 (Section
3.07, draft Loan Agreement).
127.      Assistance to the Agricultural Sector.   In agriculture, the
Government intends to focus its efforts on restucturing the sugar industry
and diversifying agricultural production. The two objectives are linked
since sugar dominates agricultural production and cultivable acreage,
agricultural diversification would be complementary to or a substitute for
sugar production and establishing the economic costs and benefits of the
acreages kept under sugar cultivation is, therefore, a precondition to
diversification into other crops. In order to identify specific short-term
remedies for the sugar industry, the Government has established a Sugar
Commission of Inquiry which will address all issues relevant to the sugar
industry, including managerial, social and economic questions. A
concomitant program of agricultural diversification aims at encouraging
more efficient utilization of scarce land and at increasing food crop
production.
128.      In support of these efforts, the proposed technical assistance
project would finance 94 man months of consultant services as follows:
(a) Sugar Commission of Inquiry. The position of the Chairman (6
man-months) of the Commission is included in the proposed loan.
In addition, 10 man/months of technical experts will be financed
under the project to assist the work of the Sugar Sector
Study Unit established under the Commission to collect data
relating to sugar production.
(b) Tea Industry. Although the tea industry is a valuable foreign
exchange earner, it is at present incurring substantial financial
losses. Losses to the public sector, which is responsible for
about 70 percent of the country's tea production, are subsidized
by the Government. A study group has been established by the
Government to examine the industry-wide problems of the tea
industry and to advise on possible reform measures to restore the
short- and long-term economic and financial viability of this
industry in Mauritius. The technical assistance project will
finance 6 man-months of consultancy services to assist in this
review.



- 32 -
(c) Tea Development Authority. At the present time the Tea
Development Authority (TDA) produces about 56 percent of the
country's tea. This production, however, is supported by heavy
injections of Government funds and TDA represents a significant
drain on the budget. In order to reduce the costs to the
Government and increase the efficiency of the TDA, a
restructuring program is underway which will involve the
redeployment of redundant field laborers, a revised management
organization for TDA, the establishment of performance criteria
for tea factories and the setting of a minimum guaranteed price
for smallholder production. Under the project, an adviser will
be assigned to the TDA for up to three years to assist in the
restructuring exercise.
(d) Agricultural Diversification. Although non-sugar/tea agriculture
is relatively small, it could and should contribute to curbing
food imports and expanding exports. The agricultural
diversification program under the structural adjustment program
would emphasize the following steps: gradual reduction in
subsidies for rice and wheat flour to shift consumer demand away
from imported foodstuffs and at the same time stimulate the
production of local foods by guaranteeing minimum prices to
producers, expanding storage facilities and encouraging livestock
and fish production. The proposed loan will support a package of
measures designed to investigate the potential of alternative
crops and agricultural products as follows:
(i) Survey of Crown Lands. As indicated above, most of the
cultivable acreage in Mauritius is under sugar.
Possibilities for diversifying agriculture by bringing new
areas under cultivation are severely limited. Unexploited
potential exists however in the development of about 75,000
acres of uncommitted or underutilized crown lands which may
be suitable for agricultural purposes. A survey of
available crown lands and forest lands will be undertaken
under the project to update data on crop potential,
production methods, and input requirements for the crown
lands and to formulate a policy for their optimum
utilization. The survey would be carried out by a
consulting firm experienced in the preparation of
agricultural development programs (8 man/months).
(ii) Index of Non-Sugar Lands. The index of lands currently
under sugar cultivation on a holding-by-holding basis will
be extended under the project to include non-sugar lands.
This index will provide information such as type of crop,
size, locatioi>, etc. needed for land use planning purposes.
The proposed loan would finance' consultant services (4
man/months) to design and monitor the survey. The survey
would be carried out in conjunction with the survey of crown
lands described above.



- 33 -
(iii) Organization of Agricultural Diversification.    To establish
the organizational alternatives for coordinating the use of
crown lands, and more generally managing the utilization of
lands suitable for agricultural diversification in light of
the recommendations of the Sugar Commission of Inquiry, the
project would include a study of the organization of
agricultural diversification (6 man/months). The appropri-
ateness of the Agricultural Diversification Corporation
(ADC) proposed by Government would be examined as part of
this study. It is expected that the corporation will not be
formally established until this study has been completed and
reviewed, together with its budgetary implications, in
consultation with the Bank.
(iv)  Fisheries Development Strategy.   To formulate a strategy for
fisheries development in Mauritius' extensive territorial
waters, assuming such development is justified, the project
would include a study (6 man/months) to:   a) review existing
fisheries studies and resource surveys on Mauritius
concentrating on the nature of the resource and the history
of its exploitation; b) review the comparative advantage,
markets and commercial viability of different fisheries
development activities (artisanal, commercial long-line,
trawling along the Saya de Mahla bank). The results would
be reviewed and discussed with the Bank as part of the
Bank's sector work program (Fisheries Study), before
proceeding with further studies or preparation of specific
projects.
(v)   Marine Pollution.   In conjunction with the above study, a
study of the effects of pollutants on the lagoon ecosystem
and adjacent waters with special reference to the fisheries
resources will be carried out by a marine biologist (6
man/months) to be financed by the project. Marine pollution
and the destruction of the coral reef are at present,
obstacles to efforts to restock the overfished lagoons. An
analysis of the extent of the pollution and recommendations
of measures to protect the lagoon and adjacent waters are
therefore necessary corollaries to any program designed to
revitalize the national fishing industry.
(vi)  Integrated Development of Rodrigues.   At present most of the
male labor force on the island of Rodrigues is on the
Government payroll and a large part of the population
receives welfare benefits. In order to reduce its
dependence on Government resources, a program designed to
foster the development of the island is planned. The
project will finance a rural development specialist for
6 man/months to assist in carrying out a techno-economic
survey and to prepare an integrated development program for
Rodrigues.



- 34 -
Wages and Employment
129.      The issue of wages and employment is central to the adjustment
and stabilization policy. The existing legal arrangements and practices
governing public involvement in private employer-employee relations are a
burden on industries. They include detailed, minimum wage orders for
particular groups of workers, various arbitration and dispute settlement
procedures and other regulations. This system of governmental wage setting
has introduced major distortions into relative wage levels and labor
distribution among the sectors. Mauritius' future development requires a
decentralized system of wage determination more responsive to changing
economic circumstances.
130.      Study of Private Sector Wage Regulations.   As a part of its
structural adjustment program, the Government is currently reviewing the
whole issue of wages and employment in the public sector and a major
revision of the Industrial Relations Act is underway. The proposed project
will finance the services of a labor economist and an industrial relations
expert (12 man/months) to be provided under ILO auspices for a
complementary study to extend to the private sector activities already
underway in the public sector to improve the mechanism for wage
negotiations and to simplify labor legislation. The study will lead to
recommendations for policy measures and modifications of the existing legal
framework needed to implement a coherent wage and incomes policy that
encourages rather than hinders rapid industrialization and growth. It is
expected that the experts will be recruited and the study will commence no
later than May 1984 and that the consultants' interim progress report will
be available for review no later than December 1984 (Section 3.07, draft
Loan Agreement).
131.     Unemployment Scheme.   Wqith the record level of registerEkd
unemployment, the creation of a hardship unemployment fund is a matter of
urgency. Past governmental efforts to ameliorate unemployment through
develoment works programs have tended to become a chronic budgetary drain
with the added complications of overstaffing and inefficient labor use in
public sector agencies. Short-term emergency relief for the unemployed, as
a complement to measures to increase employment in the industrial sector,
can alleviate hardships while at the same time avoiding the long-term costs
to the Government of employing surplus labor. The Government has
instituted an unemployment hardship relief scheme and intends to set up a
contributory unemployment scheme. The project will finance a consultant (3
man/months) to provide assistance in determining the feasible scope and
alternative methods of financing such a scheme.
Public Administration
132.     As a part of the structural adjustment program, the Government is
attempting to increase the efficiency of the public sector by eliminating
waste, improving Government services and strengthening its monitoring and
planning capacity. Given the importance of the program of reforms in the



- 35 -
industrial, agricultural and tourism sector, the Government will undertake
an independent review of each of the organizations responsible for these
sectors to determine the extent to which their management, staffing and
organizational structure is adapted to the objectives of their respective
sectoral work program, including those features included under the
Structural Adjustment Loan. The Government has requested technical
assistance from the Bank to carry out this review. Specific areas to be
covered are outlined below.
(i)  Central Government--advisory services (10 man/months) for a
review of the organization and structure of the key ministries
concerned with structural reform as outlined above and including
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development. Other organizations which are involved in the
adjustment program such as the Ministry of Works, the Social
Security office of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security
and the Ministry of Housing, Lands and the Environment will also
be reviewed.   The studies will focus on specific problem areas
relating to civil service management, staffing and coordination,
which have been identified by the Government, and will be
reviewed with the Bank prior to implementation.
(ii)  Budgetary Reform--Concurrently, the Government has agreed to and
supports the Bank's proposal to introduce reforms in the
budgetary procedures in order to establish a system which more
accurately reflects the program of priorities of the various
ministries. To enable Government to undertake the necessary
changes in the budgetary procedures and to introduce a system of
program budgeting, technical assistance will be provided to the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development to
prepare a program of action for the training of Covernment
officials in the implementation of the improved budgeting
system. A report is being prepared by consultants furnished by
CTFC and to the extent that further funding will not be available
for the implementation of the recommendations of this report, the
proposed loan will finance the services of specialists in
programming and budgeting techniques.
(iii)  Parastatals--Under the SAL program and the IMF standby
arrangement, the Government is committed to reducing the budget
deficit by about 12 percent in FY83/84. As a part of the budget
restraint measures, the Government plans to tighten up the
financial management of key parastatals and improve their
efficiency in order to reduce the amount of Government subsidies
required for their operation. Under the technical assistance
loan, two such parastatals would receive assistance:
a) The Development Works Corporation (DWC). The DWC,
initially created in 1970 to provide temporary employment
during the non-harvest season, has grown to become the
largest single corporate employer on the island. DWC



- 36 -
workers are no longer temporary, but are permanent
employees enjoying full employment benefits guaranteed by
law. The proposed loan includes assistance to DWC in the
form of a Financial Controller for two years to institute
procedures for financial autonomy and accountability; and
a Plant and Transport Manager to advise the General
Manager on equipment maintenance and to improve
procurement operations and the overall efficiency of the
workshops.
b)  The Central Housing Authority (CHA).   The CHA was
established in 1960 to undertake housing reconstruction in
the wake of several severe cyclones. Although, the houses
constructed by the CHA are designed for the low-income
group, CHA built houses cost more than one and one half
times the cost of houses built by private contractors, thus
defeating the intended purpose of the Authority. With the
objective of turning the CHA into an efficient institution
capable of constructing housing at competitive prices, the
Government is seeking technical assistance to review the
general management, technical supervision, and financial
management of the CHA. The proposed loan would provide 6
man/months of consultant services to carry out the review.
133.      In addition to the restructuring exercise, the Mauritian
Government has an urgent need to expand its capacity to collect, process
and analyze data to strengthen its capacity for economic planning.
Consultant services (8 man/months) for a study of medium- and longer-term
needs for an integrated computer system in the Government sector are
included in the proposed project. The timing of the study, which is
scheduled to begin in early 1984, is particularly important. The demands
on the Government's limited computer facilities for information required in
implementing the various measures of the economic adjustment program have
rapidly exceeded the Government's existing capacity. In attempting to meet
these needs, various ministries are seeking to acquire equipment of their
own, separate from the Government's central facilities. The Government
hopes to avoid purchasing computer equipment in an ad hoc and costly
manner, but rather to establish a solid framework for the gradual
acquisition of an integrated information management system. Following the
study, and subject to the Bank's review of the consultants' proposals, the
project would also finance a portion of the hardware and software (up to
US$700,000) to be acquired.
Supplementary Studies and Advisory Services
134.     Funds for supplementary studies and other activities not yet fully
defined would be included in the proposed loan.   Tentative uses of these
resources include a study of the needs and recommended organization of
rural roads maintenance units, the development of a training program for
the staff of the State Commercial Bank, and assistance to the staff of the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development



- 37 -
in implementing new budgetary procedures.    Essential consultant services
for implementation of the structural adjustment program in other areas
would also be eligible for financing.
Advisory Services for Economic and Structural Adjustment
135.      The Government will assign, by January 1984, responsibility for
reviewing the structural adjustment program, elaborating further adjustment
policies and designing a new economic plan of action for the Economic
Management Committee established under SAL I to ensure coordination of
economic policy. In view of the complexity of the structural adjustment
program and the broad range of measures required to implement it, the
Government will need assistance from a macro-economic adviser experienced
in the implementation of national economic policy measures. The
macro-economic adviser (24 man-months) would be assigned to the Economic
Management Committee and would provide the Government with appropriate
policy advice and follow up on the studies to be undertaken by Government
with regard to the structural adjustment program.
Project Organization and Implementation
136.    The project would be managed and administered by the Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development in consultation with the other
beneficiaries. For those studies relating to the Government as a whole,
responsibility for the selection and recruitment of resident specialists
and short-term consultants would rest with the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development. Selection and recruitment of consultants for
studies of specific interest to individual ministries would be the
responsibility of the ministries concerned in consultation with the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development.
137.    For the purposes of the computer studies, the Government will set
up a review committee comprised of representatives from the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, the Central
Statistical Office and other primary users of the computerized information
system. The purpose of the review committee will be to decide on the
recommendations made by the consultants at each stage of the study and to
ensure that all potential user needs are taken into consideration. The
Government would submit to the Bank no later than five months following the
inception of the study, their proposal for a Government-wide information
management system. The Government would exchange views with the Bank
before proceeding with the detailed equipment and facilities plan and the
procurement of any equipment called for (Section 2.03, draft Loan
Agreement).
138.    The progress of the project would be monitored by regular Bank
supervision missions in conjunction with the supervision of the SAL II
project. The Government would consult with the Bank on the findings and
recommendations of each study financed by the project (Section 3.04(a),
draft Loan Agreement). There would be an annual review of project
activities by representatives of the Economic Management Committee to



38 -
assess progress and, if necessary, revise the number and nature of the
specialists still to be recruited and the content of remaining studies in
consultation with the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
139.    The total project cost would be US$7.6 million, with an estimated
76 percent foreign exchange component. The project cost table is provided
in the Project and Loan Summary at the front of this report. The proposed
loan of US$5 million represents 86 percent of the foreign exchange costs
and 64 percent of total costs of the project. The balance of the project
costs would be met by the Government. Price contingencies of 8 percent per
annum have been included for resident advisers, short-term consultants and
equipment; and 10 percent for local incremental operating costs. Average
cost per month for the technical assistance personnel is estimated at
US$10,000 per month, excluding international travel.
Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting
140.    Separate accounts would be maintained for all project activities.
Project accounts for all institutions covered by the project would be
audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied
(Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that all expeditures
would be made under clearly defined contractual arrangements except for
expenditures relating to MEDIA (see paragraph 143 below). A certified copy
of all project accounts and financial statements as well as the auditor's
report would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year (Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement).    The Borrower would
prepare and submit to the Bank a final report on the execution of the
project no later than six months after the completion of the project
ev;xpected by June 30, 1986 (Section 3.04, draft Loan Agreement). The
closing date for the Bank loan would be December 31, 1986.
Procurement
141.    Selection of technical experts and consultants required under the
project would be in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" published in
August 1981 (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement). All terms of reference,
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment of
consultants, selection procedures and contracts for technical experts would
be subject to the Bank's prior approval (Section 3.02, draft Loan
Agreement). Terms of reference for certain studies and services which have
already been reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank are included in
Annex IV to this report. The Borrower will decide whether to invite
proposals from a short list of firms or to request a proposal from a single
firm of its choice. In both instances, however, the Bank would approve the
firms invited and, subsequently, the contract. Technical assistance is
expected to be provided by both local and foreign consulting firms, working



- 39 -
together in consortia or independently. During negotiations, Government
procedures for recruitement of specialists have been reviewed. Procurement
of computer equipment would follow international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
142.     Funds from the Bank loan would be disbursed over three years as
follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for advisers, consultants and
special studies;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment;
(c) 70 percent, 50 percent and 30 percent respectively of start-up
and operating costs for MEDIA in each of its first three years of
operations;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training.
143.     All disbursements would be fully documented.    To cover operating
costs of MEDIA, the Bank shall establish a special account designated by
the Government and shall deposit into this account an amount estimated to
be the requirement for the first three months of MEDIA's operation.
Replenishments of the special account would be made on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure. Expenditures made under the Project
Preparation Facility would be refinanced from the Bank loan upon its
effectiveness (Section 2.02(b), draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
144.     The proposed project is expected to help the Government in
implementing and consolidating the structural reform measures agreed upon
under the SAL II program. In the medium- and longer-term it would assure
better functioning of the various institutions included in the project and
contribute to a more efficient use of existing staff resources. The
project would also help to promote exports and tourism, thereby increasing
the country's foreign exchange earnings.
145.     There is some risk of delays in recruiting technical assistance
personnel under the project, owing both to the specialized nature of
certain assignments and to the Government's general preference for grant
financing of technical assistance. This concern was taken into
consideration in designing the project and only those studies essential to
the adjustment process and for which no alternative prospective source of
financing is available, have been included in the proposed loan.



- 40 -
Benefits and Risks
144.     The proposed project is expected to help the Government in
implementing and consolidating the structural reform measures agreed upon
under the SAL II program. In the medium- and longer-term it would assure
better functioning of the various institutions included in the project and
contribute to a more efficient use of existing staff resources. The
project would also help to promote exports and tourism, thereby increasing
the country's foreign exchange earnings.
145.     There is some risk of delays in recruiting technical assistance
personnel under the project, owing both to the specialized nature of
certain assignments and to the Government's general preference for grant
financing of technical assistance. This concern was taken into
consideration in designing the project and only those studies essential to
the adjustment process and for which no alternative prospective source of
financing is available, have been included in the proposed loan.
PART V   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
146.     The draft Loan Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III to this report.
Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be (a) the opening by the
Government of a special account to receive advances from the Bank loan
(Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement), and (b) the fulfillment by Mauritius of
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the SAL II Loan Agreement.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
147.     I ai satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments.
November 16, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BEST. f                YM'RILt                   LE
-41 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
MAURITIUS               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                              REFERENCE GtOUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (HOST RECENT.ESTD4ATE) /b
/b  RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCCME
196         197OL0  ESTIMATI-       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA     N. AFRICA & MID EAST
ANNA (TU NUSO SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                  1.9         1.9         1.9
AGRICULTURAL                           1.0         1.1         1.1
CII NI CAPITA (US$)                    280.0       400.0       1270.0             1147.9                   1340.0
Db CO     (TIOH PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      100.0       384.0        524.0              724.2                    810.4
POPUATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     664.0        829.0       971.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        33.2        42.0         53.1               2e.5                     47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               1.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 2.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       357.0       445.7        514.5               56.5                     36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            664.0        740.2       839.5              131.8                    449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUJRE (X)
0-14 YRS                          45.7        42.1         34.3               45.9                     43.9
15-64 YRS                          51.3        54.6         61.8               51.2                     52.8
65 AND ABOVE                        2.9         3.2          3.8                2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                               3.1          2.2         1.4                2.8                      2.9
URBAN                               4.5         4.6          3.6                5.3                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         41.4        28.0         26.5               47.6                     42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          8.9          7.6         7.0               L5.2                     12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         1.9          1.4                3.2                      3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..        9.8         12.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..       25.0         51.0
FOOD AID NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       111.0        95.0        91.0                95.7                     97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)      109.0       106.0        122.0               97.1                    102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        50.0         63.0               56.0                     72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         18.0         18.0        27.0/c             17.2                     17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          11.0         8.7          2.9               23.6                     15.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTII (YEARS)       59.1         62.3        65.8               51.9                     57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        70.5        61.1         33.7              117.6                    104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..         61.0        60.0/d             25.4                     59.3
URBAN                                ..       100.0        1oo.o7;             70.5                     84.9
RURAL                                 ..       29.0         22.67d             12.3                     37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         77.0        82.0/d
URBAN             .                   ..       51.0         6 3. 07r
RURAL                                 *         99.0       loo.d7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4680.0      4190.0      2000.0             12181.6                   3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            2100.0/e     820.0        610.0             2292.0                   1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             210.0       250.0        280.0/c           1075.4                    643.3
URBAN                             110.0/e     250.0        29O.077            402.3                    545.0
RURAL                                 *-       500.0       880.67c           3926.7                   2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         22.7        30.4/c               ..                     26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9/e        5.3/f
URBAN                               4. 97e        ..
RURAL                               4.s7e         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.9/e        ..
URBAN                                1.87i        ..
RURAL                                1. 97i       ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              46.9/e       70.1/f        *-                 *-                     46.2
URBAN                               81.97e        ..          ..                 ..                     77.6
RURAL                               29.2/e        ..          ..                 ..                      16.1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A R L E  3A
MAURITIUS               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT   b         MIDDLE INCOME         MIDDLE INCC4E
1960-       1970-   ESTIMATE-      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                  98.0        97.0       102.0              97.2                     89.6
MALE                   103.0       98.0       103.0             103.1                    104.8
FEMALE                 93.0        97.0       102.0              88.5                     72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  24.0        28.0        50.0              17.2                     41.7
MALE                    32.0       33.0        51.0              23.5                     52.8
FEMALE                 15.0        23.0        50.0              14.2                     31.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)          2.3         1.4         1.3/k             5.2                     10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        32.0        20.0              42.9                     31.9
SECONDARY                         22.0        26.0        27.0              23.7                     23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)             60.8/e      80.0/f      79.0              37.1                     43.3
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP         13.6        15.1        27.5/g            18.8                     18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        60.2       102.5      205.9               97.8                    138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..        22.9        80.5              18.6                     45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            88.1        78.5        78.6              18.2                     31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     11.0/e      10.2         8.5               0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          200.0       256.0       341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  19.6        20.0        22.8              36.1                     10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             40.0        34.0        29.0              56.8                     42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                26.0        25.0       24.0               17.5                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             30.1        30.9        35.1              37.0                     25.6
MALE                              48.6        49.6        54.7              47.1                     45.4
FEMALE                            11.8        12.3        15.9              27.0                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.6         1.5         1.1               1.3                      1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS          28.0          ..        31.O/d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS         51.0          ..        55.07.
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           4.5          ..         4.57;d
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS          14.0          ..        14.07.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       190.0             534.2                    276.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       190.0             255.9                    177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       290.0             491.5                    400.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       290.0             188.1                    283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                               ..          ..        12.0                ..                     22.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        12.0                ..                     30.8
- ----- ---- ------ -------- ------ -- --------- ----- ---------- --------- -- ----- -- --- --- - ------- ------------- --------------
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c 1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f 1972; /g 1978.
May 1983



0
..   .....~.                                               .
Z  ~              -~A I                                               aS
a 2a                           a aa. a  a a  a a
a      aI a I   Ia. -4  -a  a  a a a                      a a  a5
a a .a a  a a a  a~~.a .  .a a...  . . a.  a.a.a .  aI .a
a  a  a  a  a aa. a.  a a aa a. a.... a. a..  ...a
. a  a .   a .   a .  . a .. . . .  a.   a aa a a
a                                           a
a  a a -a a F Aaa a a aa a   a a aa
75aaa                        a a-aaa                aaa.    aaaaa-.
a        a. a. a.7                                              a.
75                                                        4 aa.  a..aak       .a.  aa  aa  aa
MW.aaaaa                           Z I  a aa          a.a.a.a. .a. a    . -aI~   -aa a-a
LA                                             I                      a.aa.a   aa   a
aSaa  aa  a  .  aa  a  aa  aa a a...a
a  .aa   a.        a .a  .a.   aaa.  aa a..   .a.. .a a.a      a .a.aa..
a PIaa        la  -.aaaa a   Sa                                   7 a  a
a   .a.a.a.a.a.a. .  ... . .
a-a                        . .  aa.aa. . . a . aaa  a a  a. ~ aaaaa-aa
a a                a a--aa   Ia           a  a a a   a. a a75 a a. a                     .a
a.  aa  a a a aa aa  a.  a a..   .a   a . .  a. aa. aa.  aaaaaa.aaa a.aaaaa a
a                       . a  a  a.aaa               a             I  Ea  a



- 44 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
MAURITIUS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982
Annual rates of Growth /
US$ Mln.        %          1976-79          1979-82
GDP at Market Prices             1080.3      100.0          6.4                0.1
Gross Domestic Investment         227.5       21.1          4.1              -16.0
Gross Domestic Saving             194.3       18.0          7.7                6.1
Current Account Balance           -50.2       -4.6          -                  -
Exports of Goods, NFS             498.9       46.2          5.3               -1.7
Imports of Goods, NFS             532.1       49.3          3.6               -9.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added2/          Labor Force3/      V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.    %          Thousand    %         US$        %
Sugar                    132.1      14.2        50.0     25.7        2642      56.0
Other Agriculture         55.8       3.9         6.8      3.5        5265     111.5
Other Industry           122.0      13.1        36.6     18.8        3333      70.6
Services                 639.0      68.8       100.9     52.0        6333     134.1
Total    928.9      100.0       194.3    100.0       4721      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Central Government
Rs Mln.                   % of GDP
1981/82                   1981/82
Current Revenue                       2222.8                     21.9
Current Expenditures                  2756.4                     25.1
Current Deficits                      -533.6                    -3.2
Capital Expenditure                    922.6                     8.5
Overall deficit                      -1456.2                     11.7
Foreign Financing (gross)              947.7                      6.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1978     1979      1980       1981     1982
(Rs million outstanding at the end of the period)
Money and Quasi Money                2861.5    3113.7    3837.4    3992.5   4926.9
Claims on Government (net)           1525.5    1967.9    2396.9    3190.6   3991.1
Claims on private sector             1508.1    1721.6    1881.1    2259.1   2460.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      45.7      40.8      44.1      38.8     41.8
GDP Price Deflator (1976 = 100)       116.6     134.6     171.5     190.1    107.1
Annual percentage changes in =
GDP Deflator                            8.8      15.4       27.4     10.8      8.9
Claims on Government (net)             32.0      29.0       21.8     33.1     25.1
Claims on private sector               11.5      14.2       9.3      20.1      8.9
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ In 1976 prices.
2/ At factor cost
3/ Employment in large establishments as of September 1982.
October 1983



BEST CPi AVAILALE                                              -45-
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
MALRITIUS - TRADE PAYMN      AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMS                                                NERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-81)
1979   1980   1981    1982
(US$ Mllion)                                    US$ mln.      %
Exports of Goods, NFS         509.2  578.7   494.7  504.3      Sugar                    233.9      62.0
Imports of Goods, NES         649.7  694.7  614.2   536.2      Mblasses                  10.6       2.8
Resource Gap                 -140.5 -127.7 -119.5   -31.9      Tea                        5.8       1.5
Clothinjs                  9.8       2.6
Investment Income (net)       -16.6  -23.1  -45.5   -45.7      Other products           117.4      31.1
Net Transfers                  12.2   20.7    17.3   30.7      Re-exports              ( 76.2)   ( 20.2)
Current Account Balance      -144.8 -188.5 -147.8   -46.9
Total              377.5     100.0
Long-term Capital              10.0     3.8    7.8    1.5
Net MLT borrowing:             71.6   64.5    36.8   81.0
Disbursements               (75.6) (76.1) (49.1)(105.7)      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Amortization                 (4.0) (11.6) (12.3) (24.7)              (US$ million)
Other capital (net)l/          11.1   75.3     1.8  -16.5
Public Debt, outstanding and
Change in Reserves             52.1  -25.1   101.4  -19.1        disbursed                        393.3
( (-) = increase)
MeM  item                                                      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
Use of SDRs                     1.1    0.8   -7.3      -       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    13.22/
Use of IW credit               40.8   41.0    64.4   32.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (September 30, 198?)
(US$ Million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                   IBRD     IDA
1979           1980           1981           1982         Outstanding & Disbursed    62.39    20.19
US$1.0=R6.4017 US$1.0=7.6896   US$1.0=9.0911   US$1.0=10.8990  Undisbursed                 63.50      -
R1.0=US$0.1562 R1.0=US$0.1300 RI.0=4U $0.1100 R1.0=US$0.0920   Outstandinm including      125.89   20.19
undisbursed
1/  Includes short-term private capital, SDR allocation and errors and omissions
2/ Debt service payments as percentage of estimated export earnings.
October 1983



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or                                                           US$ million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)l/
Number      Year     Borrower           Purpose          Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Six Loans and Five Credits have been fully disbursed     43.62   20.42
976-MAS    1974     Mauritius  Port I                   10.00                 .76
1339-T-MAS  1976     Mauritius Revised Port I             3.60                 .32
1543-MAS    1978     Mauritius  Second Education         15.20                7.07
1548-MAS    1978     Mauritius  Second Power             15.00                9.12
1789-MAS    1980     DBM        Development Bank V        5.59                4.09
1926-MAS    1981     Mauritius  Urban Rehabilitation
and Development        15.00                9.44
2164-MAS    1982     DBM        Development Bank VI       6.00                5.90
2229-MAS    1983     Mauritius Water Supply              12.20               11.60
2337-MAS2/ 1983      Mauritius  Highways                 15.20               15.20
TOTAL                                                 141.41   20.42       63.50
of which has been repaid                             15.52     .23         -
TOTAL now outstanding                                 125.89   20.19
Amount sold                            4.95
of which has been repaid             4.66              .29
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                        125.60   20.19
TOTAL undisbursed                                                -         63.50
B. Statement of IFC Investments (September 30, 1983)
Year        Borrower            Type of Business         Loan    Equity      Total
1971        Dinarobin Inns      Tourism                   0.6       -         0.6
& Hotels Ltd.
Total gross commitment                      0.6       -         0.6
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      0.56                0.56
Net held by IFC                             0.04                0.04
Total undisbursed                           0.0      0.0        0.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
MAURITIUS
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 6 months
(b) Initial Discussion with the Bank: November 1982
(c) Appraisal Mission: February 1983
(d) Negotiations: May 10 to 17, 1983
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: January 1984
II.   Special Implementation Action
The Bank has approved a PPF advance of US$525,000 to facilitate
the initial activities of the Sugar Commission of Inquiry and the
restructuring of the Tea Development Authority.
III. Special Conditions of the Project
(a) The Government would take steps to ensure adequate budgetary
provision at the beginning of each fiscal year for the
Government's portion of MEDIA's operating costs, i.e., 30% of
estimated budget in year one, 50% in year two, 70% in year three
and 100% each year thereafter (para. 119);
(b) The Government would consult with the Bank on the annual work
program of MEDIA (para. 119);
(c) The Government would submit to the Bank for its prior approval
the proposed annual budget for MEDIA (para. 119);
Special Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a)  The Government shall have opened a special account to receive
advances from the Bank loan to cover MEDIA's first three months
of operation (para. 143).
(b) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the SAL II loan
agreement shall have been fulfilled.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 31
MAURITIUS
ORGANIZATION STUDY OF TOURISM PROMOTION SERVICES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The study will consist of two main parts: the first part will
analyze the present organization. It will look into the staffing,
training and promotional programs of the existing tourism promotion
services at the Mauritian Government Tourist Office (MGTO); the second
part will recommend appropriate budget and promotion programs,
organization, staffing, and training of the MGTO on the assumption of a
significant increase in resources made available for tourism promotion.
In formulating these recommendations the consultant(s) will analyze the
tourism market segments which Mauritius is attracting and may be able to
attract in the future.
Part I: Present Organization needs
The consultant(s) will undertake the following review:
1. review the present set up and staffing for the ongoing
promotional activites;
2. analyze the effectiveness of the campaigns already launched
during the past 3-4 years in light of the Mauritius Government Tourist
Office budget allocations;
3. look into the qualifications and training requirements of the
MGTO staff;
4. look into the quality and quantity of sales support material
available;
5. analyze and describe the promotional campaigns being
undertaken by the different sectors of the travel trade, i.e. airlines,
tour operators and Travel Agents both local and abroad. Particular
emphasis will be paid to the promotional activities of the national
carrier;
6. examine the extent of co-ordination and cooperation between
the promotional campaigns of the MGTO and those of the different sectors
of the travel trade both local and abroad;
7. look into the future scope of joint promotion campaigns and
tour operators' financial support;



49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 31
8. evaluate the appropriateness of the existing organization,
procedures, staffing and training of the MGTO and the effectiveness of its
promotion campaigns and overseas agents, having regard to the resources
presently made available for official tourism promotion.
Part II.  The consultant(s) will look into the following aspects in the
second phase of the study:
1. analyze the various market segments for vacation travel to
Mauritius by country of origin;
2. analyze the types of travel arrangements preferred by the
tourists in the different markets;
3. compare the attractiveness of Mauritius as a holiday resort
with other similar destinations;
4. compare the holiday cost in Mauritius vis-a-vis our
competitors;
5. look into the motivation, length of stay, time of visit, age
group, income level, etc.;
6. analyze the specific needs of tourists from the different
source markets and recommend how Mauritius can cater to these needs;
7. recommend margketing strategies to attract increased visitor
flows, and the necessary organizational, staffing and training programs
needed to implement such strategies effectively;
8. recommend the scale of the promotional budgets for 1984/85 and
subsequent years needed to achieve the agreed 8 percent annual increase in
visitor numbers;
9. The consultant will recommend the types of training needed and
also where the training courses can be obtained.
The consultant/expert will report through the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of External Affairs, Tourism and Emigration to the
Monitoring Committee on the competitiveness of the Tourist Industry. The
Ministry will give all the technical support needed for the study.
For the purpose of the study, the consultant/expert will need a
small staff attached to him. The MGTO can assign a Tourist Officer, a
Statistician and a Clerical Officer to work under the consultant during
the time of the study.
-.--1



- 50 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 31
Duration and Reports
Completion of both phases of the study is expected to take about
six months, with a report on Part I submitted three months after
commencing work. The report of Part I will also include a draft work
program and travel schedule for Part II, approval for which shall be
deemed to have been given one month after its submission. To the maximum
extent possible and particularly for Part I and the institutional aspects
of Part II, the work shall be done in Mauritius. The draft Part II report
shall be submitted three months after approval of the draft work program.
The final version, incorporating relevant comments, will be submitted two
months later. The study team shall work closely with the consultants
working on the Air Travel Marketing Strategies Study.
The consultants selected shall be qualified management consultants
with demonstrated experience in tourism activities.
Tentative Starting Date: June 1984
Completion Date: December 1984



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 31
MAURITIUS
STUDY OF AIR TRAVEL MARKETING STRATEGIES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The study will propose appropriate marketing strategies for
tourist flights to Mauritius from new and traditional markets, and
recommend a market intelligence gathering and monitoring system to provide
the essential information to the Government on the potential for
developing tourism markets. In formulating these proposals, the
consultant will take account of the prospects for air services to be
operated by Air Mauritius as well as foreign carriers, and will consider
the potential for both scheduled and non-scheduled operations.
Background
The Government has selected tourism as one of the key sectors to
assist in restoring equilibrium in the balance of payments, and has
adopted a broadly based action plan to stimulate growth in the sector and
the recovery of Mauritius' competitive market position.
A key element in the recovery plan in a continuing program to
improve and diversify air service connections. This programme has already
begun with a major marketing campaign in the U.K., and agreements to
introduce extra flights to South Africa and Rome before the 1983-84 high
season. Government-to-Government and airline-to-airline discussions have
also been initiated with several countries to explore the possibilities of
an early introduction of new services, including joint ventures and
traffic rights pooling between Air Mauritius and foreign airlines and
dedicated tourists flights, as well as conventional bilateral route
sharing.
The study would assist in determining a longer term strategy for
the expansion of air services to Mauritius, and in establishing the
information gathering and market monitoring systems necessary to keep the
strategy abreast of changing conditions in the international air travel
markets.
The Study
The consultant will review the existing coverage of air services
and, taking into account current initiatives to expand this coverage and
other conditions in international markets, shall recommend a program of
air service development after identifying the most promising new
medium-term tourist markets, consistent with Mauritius' chosen tourism
development strategy favoring high-spending visitors. In the light of
expected market conditions over the next five years, the consultant shall



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 31
assess whether air services to existing and new markets are more
appropriately organized as regular scheduled flights, catering to small
groups or individual tourists, or as special (charter) flights catering to
large groups. The strategy for air service development so recommended
shall also take account of major tour wholesaler/retailer practices in the
specific markets considered and the general regulatory framework affecting
the type of air services to be developed. The consultant should also
identify potential longer-term future markets and set up a data collection
system to monitor the timing for potential expansion into these markets.
In making the review, the study will include, but not be limited
to, the following potential markets:
New Countries and
Regions                      Specialized Markets
Australia                         Affinity groups
Japan                             Conventions
Middle East                       Incentive tours
Scandinavia                       Business stop-overs
Eastern Europe
East Africa countries
The study will also evaluate a range of marketing techniques, such as
off-season pricing and joint regional promotions, judged suitable for each
particular market.
Duration and Reports
The study will take about six months, with an Inception Report
submitted one month after the work commences, a draft final report three
months thereafter. The Inception Report shall make a preliminary survey
of all potential markets for Mauritius' tourism, identify the most
promising areas for further work and propose a work plan for undertaking
the required analysis. Approval of the work plan shall be deemed to have
been given three weeks after its submission unless indicated to the
contrary. The Government comments on the draft final report will be
provided to the consultant within one month of its receipt. The Final
Report shall be submitted one month after receipt of the Government's
comments. In making the study, the consultant shall maintain close
consultation with the MGTO and other relevant Mauritian officials and
tourism industry representatives, with Air Mauritius and with the
consultants undertaking the Organization Study of Tourism Promotion
Services.
Selection to undertake this study will depend on demonstrated
experience in tourism and air service marketing.   Estimated starting date:
June 1984; completion December 0984.



- 53 -                ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 31
MAURITIUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE COMMISSION OF INQUIRY ON THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.        A Commission of Inquiry on the Sugar Industry in Mauritius was
instituted towards the end of December 1982 with Dr. D. Avramovic, Senior
Adviser to UNCTAD, as Chairman. The Commission will look into all aspects
of the sugar industry and everything related thereto.
2.        The Commission has started its work and a first session of
formal hearings was held in the month of March 1983. The major parties
concerned with the sugar industry have already deponed. It is expected
that the draft report of the Commission would be finalized by December
1983.
3.        Some financing assistance will be required for the Commission.
This will be primarily to meet the cost of the Chairman's assignment of
about five man-months. Other consultancy services may also be required
either for the inquiry itself or in relation ot the follow-up action
arising from the findings and recommendations of the Commission. Some
back up support and equipment may also be required.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 31
MAURITIUS
STUDY GROUP ON TEA INDUSTRY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The tea industry in Mauritius, while being a valuable earner of
foreign exchange, is incurring financial losses.   It is alleged that the
loss is considerable in the privately owned factories and they cannot
continue to bear these much longer. In the public sector, the factory
losses of Nouvelle France and the three factories operated by the Tea
Development Authority are subsidized by the Government to an extent which
is unacceptable. The plantation side of the Tea Development Authority is
being organized into smallholdings in order to cut the heavy burden which
the State now bears.
In light of the above, the Government has set up a Study Group
on Tea Industry with the following terms of reLerence:
(i)  (a)  to examine in depth the state of the tea industry as a
whole with particular regard to farm budgets and the cost
of green leaf production by smallholders and metayers, the
cost of green leaf transport to factories, the quality of
green leaf and the amount of damage done under present
transport conditions, the potential for increasing green
leaf yields in estates and by smallholders/metayers;
(b) to assess the requirements for the improvement of the
infrastructure (roads, housing, tea villages) and the
measure of improvement to green leaf yields and transports;
(c) to consider the relative positions of factories to green
leaf production areas and assess potential savings from
reallocating some smallholders to other factories; and
(d) to consider the benefits from mechanization not losing
sight of the effect on employment opportunities.
(ii)  (a)  to examine in detail the cost of production at each
factory, ascertain and quantify where savings can be
effected, at the same time ensuring that the standard of
manufactures does not suffer but improves;
(b) to estimate the capital investments required to achieve
cost cutting (e.g., boilers to burn bagasse instead of oil)
and how these investments can be financed; and



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 31
(c) to estimate the local and foreign costs in assessing the
cost of production.
(iii) to forecast as far as is practicable the selling price of
Mauritian teas assuming improved leaf and manufacturing
standards and taking into account the quantities produced for
local consumption;
(iv) from the studies at (i), (ii) and (iii) above, to assess whether
the current ratio of 60 percent:34 percent of smallholders to
manufacturers requires adjustment and to what degree. It will
also have to ascertain whether the industry requires subsidies
from Government and recommend how such subsidies must be divided
between growers and manufacturers;
(v) to determine the amount of gross and net foreign exchange
earnings and the ratio between the economic cost of resources
consumed and the income derived;
(vi) to examine the current proposal for the purchase of.Indian tea
and blending it with Mauritian tea in the Island, with
particular reference to the financial and economic implications
of these proposals;
(vii)  finally, to assess the short- and long-term economic and
financial viability of the tea industry in Mauritius and make
the requisite recommendations to the Government.
During discussions in the context of negotiations for the Second
Structural Adjustment Loan, the World Bank delegation indicated its
willingness to provide consultancy services under the Technical Assistance
Loan to assist the Study Group.
The consultancy services would be reqxuired for a period of about
five weeks and should consist of the following:
(i)  An analyst         a "tea man" with all-round experience of
factories, plantation activities, and
marketing and who can bring to the work of
the Study Group an international outlook;
(ii)  An agro-economist  a person with experience in the
micro-economic aspects of the tea industry
who can analyze critically and evaluate the
real cost of production of each
unit--smallholders, planters and factories.
Such an assignment requires an economist who
has specialized in the industry.
Tentative Starting Date: April 1984
Tentative Completion Date: September 1984



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 31
MAURITIUS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
LAND USE, CAPABILITY AND DEVELOPMENT STUDY
Background
V.        Sugar dominates Mauritian agriculture and occupies about 90
percent of the arable land, which in an island economy of some 200,000 ha
is a scarce resource. The Government of Mauritius has commissioned the
Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI) to compile an index of
all sugar lands on a holding by holding basis and wishes to extend this
indexing to non-sugar lands. The index will provide information such as
cropped area by type of crop, location, soil type, slope, stage of
development (derocking, irrigation, etc.). The information is needed for
detailed land use planning purposes. Included amongst the non-sugar lands
are areas of uncommitted, underutilized Crown and other lands with
agricultural potential. The Government of Mauritius has applied for a
Technical Assistance loan from the World Bank to carry out a study to
identify these areas, assess their potential for development and prepare a
five-year program to bring this potential into production.
Objectives
2.        The specific objectives of the study are to:
(a) Investigate and update existing data on uncommitted,
underutilized Crown and other lands which are suitable for
agricultura] purposes and not currently used for sugar
production;
(b) Review existing afforestation programs and to examine the
potential for aligning these to include the concept of
agro-forestry;
(c) Specifically identify from within the uncommitted, underutilized
Crown and other lands those areas with the highest potential for
productive development;
(d) Formulate a policy for the optimum economic utilization of
available Crown and forest lands, particularly with regard to
maximizing the net foreign exchange earnings and employment,
that could be generated by developing those portions of this
land with the highest potential for productive development;
(e) Identify and prepare a five-year development program that is
consistent with this policy.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 31
(f) Prepare detailed lists of the investment and manpower required
in the five-year development program, including estimates of:
the total material requirements by source (imported, domestic);
manpower requirements by nature and source (professional,
administrative, skilled, unskilled); and the total financial
requirements this investment would require identified in terms
of foreign exchange vis-a-vis domestic currencies and to include
estimates fo the duties and taxes involved in each;
(g) Estimate the total operating costs of the program on an annual
basis from a detailed list of the physical and manpower inputs
required and express the total operational financial
requirements needed, both during the five-year investment period
and beyond in terms of the demand for foreign exchange and
domestic currencies, including estimates of the duties and taxes
involved in each;
(h) Prepare a detailed list of all the output it is anticipated will
be produced as a result of the investment and operating costs;
identifying when this would appear, how it would be disposed
of--exported (raw, processed), consumed locally (raw,
processed), and the financial and hence economic (or border)
prices at which any sales involved might be transacted. In so
doing any taxes and duties involved, and the marketing
mechanisms, costs and margins used should be identified,
described and quantified.
Responsibilities
3.        Government would provide all existing data for review by the
study team, including a document and map(s) that clearly identifies the
precise study area and any areas on which Government requries an update of
existing information before it can make a final decision. A list of the
existing data is attached (Schedule 1).
4.        The study team will review the material provided, conduct
familiarization field trips, collect whatever data Government has
indicated that it needs from those areas on which it has been unable to
make a final decision. From this the study team will prepare an interim
report to present its initial findings (including an overview of the
resources involved) and recommendations for discussion and agreement with
Government on the next steps. In particular decisions will be sought on
the:
(a) Precise boundaries of the final study area;



- 58 -                ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 31
(b) Most likely development program or programs to be investigated
in more detail before selecting one for in-depth preparation;
(c) Need to collect and present additional information and to
identify the skills and disciplines this will require, including
the detail and accuracy to which such data needs to be
collected; the extent to which Government can provide the
required resources (survey teams, mapping facilities,
etc.)--with the remainder being supplied by the study team; the
chronological time frame within which this information is to be
collected and made ready for use; and details of the Government
study team working relationships needed (e.g., secondment of
Government supplied manpower, equipment, etc., to the study
team, or independent action under separate terms of reference);
(d) The criteria and any constraints on or within which the final
development program is to be assessed. Including a financing
plan identifying the scope for international lending (usually
confined to foreign exchange component) and hence demand for
local financing; the likely impact on Government expenditures
and revenues; economic rate of return, the Domestic Resource
cost of the recommended program; and its likely impact on
employment.
Schedule 1
Data to be Provided by the Government
(Indicative list only. Final list
will be the result of exhaustive
Government review.)
1. Maps--list stating location of area mapped, data presented, scale,
date data was collected.
2. Aerial photographs and mosaics--list by date flown, location of area
and scale.
3. Climactic--list by location of rec_.)-ling station, nature of
information, method of collection, duration and continuity of records.
4. Soil data--surveys, taxonomy.
5. Land use--surveys.



- 59 -ANITEX IV
Page 12 of 31
6. Geological--surveys.
7. Topographical.
8. Hydrological--catchment basins, groundwater flooding (incidence,
depth, and duration), existing and potential for irrigation.
9. Land forms.
10. Population--human, animal; distribution and associated
infrastructure/facilities.
11. Transport, communications, water and power distribution grids.
12. Relevant regional plans/studies.
13. Cadastral.
Tentative Starting Date: March 1984
Tentative Completion Date: July 1984



- 60 -                ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 31
MAURITIUS
CONSULTANT/EXPERT FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION
TERIMS OF REFERENCE
To assist the Government in analyzing the organizational options
for managing lands suitable for agricultural diversification, including
the proposed agricultural diversification corporation, a consultant expert
would be employed to:
(a) In light of recommendations of the sugar commission of inquiry,
establish the alternatives for managing the utilization of
non-sugar lands (incentives to private sector, promotion through
extension service, public corporation, etc.);
(b) evaluate the costs and benefits of each approach; and
(c) recommend a course of action which would optimize utilization of
agricultural diversification lands at minimum cost to Government
and the economy.
(d) examine legislation creating the Agricultural Diversification
Corporation (ADC) and determine its consistency with the results
of (c) above, and propose appropriate changes in the legislation
as necessary.
The consultant/expert should have wide experience in the
organization of agricultural diversification in other countries and would
report to the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development. The duration
of his appointment would be six months.
Tentative Starting Date: March 1984
Tentative Completion Date: July 1984



- 61 -                ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 31
MAURITIUS
STUDY FOR THE FORMULATION OF A FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Despite the existence of various fishing activities in
Mauritius' extensive territorial waters, including the lagoon, there is no
clear picture of the nature and extent of Mauritius' fish resources. The
degree to which it is economically and financially worthwhile to develop
these resources is also not clear.
To help formulate a strategy for the development of Mauritius'
fisheries resources, a study would be carried out to:
(a) review existing fisheries studies and resource surveys
concentrating on the nature of the resource and the history of
its exploitation; and
(b) review the comparative advantage, markets and commercial
viability of different fisheries development activities
(artisanal, commercial long line, trawling along the Saya de
Mahla bank).
The results of these studies would be reviewed and discussed with the
Bank, before proceeding with additional fisheries resource surveys or
preparation of specific projects.
The consultant to carry out the above studies should have wide
experience in industrial fishing operations. The duration of his
appointment would be one year.
Tentative Starting Date: June 1984



- 62 -                ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 31
MAURITIUS
CONSULTANT/EXPERT FOR A STUDY OF THE CAUSES OF POLLUTION AND
PROPOSALS TO ALLEVIATE MARINE POLLUTION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The marine resources of Mauritius represent considerable unknown
potential which could contribute significantly to the economic
development of the country. So far the effort to tap these resources has
been very little and more so no attention has been given for the
protection and conservation of our lagoons. Not only our lagoons have
been over-exploited but they have been left to become polluted.
It is therefore imperative at this stage of our development to
have the services of a consultant or a team of experts who can advise the
Government on the pollution aspect of our marine resources.
The candidate should be a marine fisheries biologist with
considerable experience in effects of pollutants on tropical coastal
fisheries including vast knowledge of lagoon and coral reef ecosystems.
Duration of appointment: Six months.
Terms of Reference:
(1) To assess the effects of pollutants on the lagoon ecosystem and
adjacent waters with special reference to the fisheries
resources, resulting from land-based, coastal and marine-related
activities including marine transportation (e.g., oil pollution
from tankers).
(2) After preliminary investigations the expert will organize the
sampling and analysis necessary to carry the assessment as laid
out in (1) above. These will include the analysis of samples of
water, sediment, fish and other living organisms (e.g., corals
found on reefs and the sea-bed).
To review and make recommendations to strengthen the present
organizational arrangements for combatting oil spills on an
emergency basis.
(3) To study the effects of sand dredging from lagoons.



- 63-                 ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 31
(4) In the light of the above findings to submit recommendations for
the protection and conservation of our resources in the lagoon
and adjacent waters.
The Consultant/Expert will report to the officer in charge of
the Fisheries Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Natural Resources and will be assisted by the staff of the Division.
Tentative Starting Date: October 1984
Tentative Completion Date: April 1985



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 31
MAURITIUS
TECHNO-ECONOMIC SURVEY OF RODRIGUES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Rodrigues is a small island with a population of approximately
33,000 dependent on subsistence agriculture and fishing. The island is
regularly hit by cyclones and plagued by severe drought which has had
devastating effects on the island's agriculture. As a result of these
hardships, most of the male population of the island has been placed on
the Government payroll and many others receive social benefits of one kind
or another. In order to reduce its dependence on Government resources, a
program designed to foster the development of the island is planned.
Agricultural output can be considerably increased through more appropriate
land use, better cropping techniques and better use of available water
resources. As a first step, a basic resource study is needed to prepare a
development strategy for Rodrigues. 'rhe detailed terms of reference for
this resource study are as follows:
Terms of Reference
(1) To carry out a detailed survey of the resources available in
Rodrigues with a view to draw up an integrated plan for the
economic and social development of Rodrigues. In this context,
emphasis would be laid on:
(a) agriculture and livestock development;
(b) exploitation of fishing resources; and
(c) the setting up of cottage industries.
(2) To review the existing educational and training facilities and
to assess their adequacy to meet the requirement for various
types and levels of skills needed for the development of
Rodrigues.
(3) To explore the possibility of developing financial institutions
to mobilize and generate financial resources.
(4) To advise on the development of the necessary physical
infrastructure which would be required in line with future
development of Rodrigues.



- 65 -                ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 31
(5) To explore the possibility of increasing exports of agriculture
and other products from Rodrigues to Mauritius and to reduce
imports into Rodrigues.
The Consultant/Expert will report to the Resident Commissioner of
Rodrigues.
Duration: Six months.
Tentative Starting Date: March 1984
Tentative Completion Date: September 1984



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 31
MAURITIUS
STUDY OF GOVERNMEHIT REGULATIONS OF WAGES AND INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The existing legal arrangements and practices governing public
involvement in private employer-employee relations are complicated and
have strong historical roots. They constitute a complex intertwining of
ad hoc, frequently detailed minimum wage orders for particular groups of
workers, various arbitration and dispute settlement procedures and other
regulations of collective bargaining organizations and relationships.
The system of minimum wage regulation has evolved in a process of
governmental fixation of both wage levels and relative wage structures in
various "sectors". Except for the important exception of the general cost
of living adjustment legislated annually to apply to all wage earners,
minimum wage determinations in the form of remunerations ordered by the
National Remuneration Board take place on a case-by-case basis.
This ad hoc system of governmental wage setting has undoubtedly
introduced major distortions and anomalies into relative wage levels.
Moreover, the growth of governmental interventions into wage setting
processes has very likely inhibited the development of collective
bargaining. The structural changes involved in Mauritius' future
development--a declining share of employment in agriculture, the
decreasing dependence on sugar, a rapid growth of competition,
export-oriented manufactures--requires a system of wage determination both
more responsive to changing economic circumstances and with greater equity
across sectors and occupations.
Study Objective
The principal objective of the study would be to provide the
empirical analytic foundations for recommendations for such legislative
changes regarding minimum wages, labor standards, collective bargaining
structure and dispute settlement procedures as might be required to make
Government policy more effective in controlling labor costs, encouraging
efficiency in the allocation of labor and ensuring equitable and
economically viable levels of remuneration.
Work Program
The study would involve two parallel components--one concentrating
on governmental fixation of wages and working conditions through



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 31
remuneration orders, general legislative provisions or independent
arbitration tribunals, and the other on the structure and operation of
collective bargaining relationships and dispute settlement procedures.
The first component would provide for an analysis of the
functioning of the legal machinery now operating for determination of
wages and working conditions, and will include:
a) An analysis of wage and benefit levels currently in force under
remuneration orders and arbitration tribunal awards in the various
sectors.
b) An examination, to the extent existing data permit, of the
intra- and inter-sectoral differentials by skill category
resulting from these orders and awards.
c) An estimate by economic sector of the number of wc;rkers covered
by governmentally fixed wages and of the effectiveness of
enforcement.
d) A pilot sample survey of occupational earnings to permit
preliminary comparisons of wage differentials between covered and
uncovered sectors.
The second component poses more difficult and sensitive problems
of institutional and legal analysis and will need to be designed in close
cooperation with trade union and employer representatives. Among the
elements that should be considered for inclusion are:
a) A comparative review of industrial relations systems,
collective bargaining structures, and labor legislation in small
open economies which have successfully combined export-oriented
industrialization with active collective bargaining institutions
(e.g. Norway, Denmark, New Zealand) in order to see what lessons
might be chosen from that experience of relevance to Mauritian
circumstances.
b) An analysis of the impact of the existing legal framework on
the structure of minor organization and collective bargaining and
the possible modifications that might be introduced to encourage
its development in a manner conducive to rapid industrialization
and growth.



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 31
c) An examination of planning and policy constraints and
procedures required for effective formulation and implementation
of a coherent wages and incomes policy.
Organization and Staffing
Much of the empirical and analytic work could be carried out by
external consultants working over a period of three to six months. For
the analysis of the minimum wage system and relative wage structures, an
experienced labor economist and one or two research assistants would be
required. For the design and management of the pilot wage survey, the
assistance of the Central Statistical Office would be needed although the
survey itself could perhaps be carried out with temporary staff. The
collective bargaining and industrial relations study would require an
expert in industrial relations and collective bargaining systems,
preferably with experience in an economy heavily dependent upon external
trade.
Both studies should be carried out under the supervision of a
joint steering group from the Ministries of Planning, Labor and Employment
with designated counterparts to collaborate closely with the external
consultants. The steering group would be responsible for formulating, on
the basis of the consultant reports, specific recommendations for
legislative and administrative action by the Government.
Tentative starting date: June 1984
Completion: December 1984



- 69 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 31
MAURITIUS
STUDY OF THE FEASIBILITY OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The v(ilnerability of the Mauritian economy to external
fluctuations in export and import markets or to the damaging effects of
droughts, floods, and cyclones poses severe problems for Government policy
in dealing with the shorter term adverse consequences on employment and
income. Past governmental efforts to ameliorate unemployment through
development works programs have tended to become a chronic budgetary drain
with the added complications of overstaffing and inefficient labor use in
public sector agencies. Alternative instruments should be sought for
ameliorating the hardships borne by unemployed workers and their families
that do not aggravate the longer term problem of achieving higher and more
productive levels of employment.
Study Objective
The purpose of the study would be to determirne the feasibility of
establishing an unemployment insurance scheme for dealing with short-term
unemployment problems.
Work Program
The study would involve examination of:
a) the feasible scope, coverage, eligibility criteria, benefit
levels and duration of an adequate insurance scheme;
b) alternative methods of financing and managing the unemployment
insurance fund;
c) links to employment service operations and other income
maintenance or public employment programs.
Organization and Staffing
As an exploratory study, the work could be carried out by an
external consultant within a period of three months. He will need the
close collaboration of the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Employment and
Labor. The consultant should be an economist with in-depth knowledge of
the structure and operation of unemployment schemes.
Tentative Starting Date: June 1984
Tentative Completion Date: September 1984



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Page 23 of 31
MAURITIUS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
ASSISTANCE TO THE DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION
Background
The Development Works Corporation, which was originally set up
to provide employment to new entrants to the labor market, has with time
emerged as a major construction company and executes works which it wins
through public tenders or which are assigned directly to it by the
Government or parastatal organizations. It has a sizeable transport,
plant and equipment force totalling some 450 items, of which an
appreciable amount is presently unserviceable.     The corporation has an
establishment of over 6000 employees with an annual budget exceeding
Rs 100,000,000.
Two experts are required, each for 24 man-months, a Plant and
Transport Manager to manage the Plant and Transport Division and a
Financial Controller.
Plant and Transport Manager
The Development Works Corporation owns and operates a fleet of
over 100 lorries, jeeps, etc. and over 300 items of equipment utilized on
civil works, including pneumatic compressors and drillers, concrete
mixers, tar boilers and sprayers, etc. The Plant and Transport Manager
would report directly to the General Manager and will be responsible for:
1. Administering the Plant and Transport (operation and
maintenance) Departments;
2. Carrying out an assessment of the plant, vehicles and
equipment of the Corporation and advising on redundancies and/or
additional requirements in the light of current and future levels of
activity;
3. Making recommendations on the policy to be followed
regarding maintenance, i.e., contracting or otherwise;
4. (i) reorganizing the maintenance activity, planning and
establishing maintenance schedules;
(ii) reviewing procedures for procurement and holding of
spares;



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 24 of 31
(iii) making recommendations on ways and means to improve
efficiency of workshops;
(iv) advising on facilities necessary to enable the
Corporation to deal effectively with the preventive and demand maintenance
work load;
(v) establishing control and reporting procedures and
providing management accounting service on maintenance and operations
cost.
The Development Works Corporation will assign two counterparts
to the Plant and Transport Manager, a Transport Office for the operations
section who will hold a degree in engineering with a post graduate diploma
in transport and development, and a Mechanical Engineer for maintenance
management.
Financial Controller
The Financial Controller would report directly to the General
Manager and would be responsible for:
1. the financial accounting (stewardship) of the Corporation
through the Senior Accountant;
2. reorganizing the existing management accounting system and
transforming it into one which primarily provides a management accounting
service to operations .nanagers to allow them to improve efficiency, to
formulate and coordinate future plans, and to measure their execution;
3. instituting procedures that would establish the necessary
financial autonomy and accountability for individual projects undertaken
by the Corporation;
4. carrying out investment studies related to purchase of
capital equipment and proposals for DWC initiatives in new fields of
activity;
5. producing financial statements, statement of cash flow,
etc., as and when necessary.
Tentative Starting Date: June 1984
Tentative Completion Date: December 1984



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Page 25 of 31
MAURITIUS
REVIEW OF THE FUNCTIONING OF THE CENTRAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Central Housing Authority (CHA), a parastatal body set up in
1960, has traditionally been associated with post cyclone housing
reconstruction programs. These programs are implemented by CHA direct
labor and through private contracts. Houses constructed under CHA
programs are meant for the low-income group earning less than Rs. 1,600
per month.
It has been observed that the cost of CHA-built houses is one and
a half times that of the private contractors. The result is that
Government subsidies meant for the beneficiaries of CHA houses are
absorbed in the high construction costs. This eventually leads to higher
prices for these houses, which, in many cases, may not be affordable by
the low-income group.
The comparative high cost is a result of a number of factors.
These include: a) low productivity of CHA workers; b) weak management
structure; c) inadequate technical supervision; and d) poor financial
management.
Government is concerned about the situation and intends to review
the entire management structure of the Authority. The objective is to
make the CHA a more efficient institution. In this regard, a study will
be undertaken of the entire organization of the CHA. This review would
cover the following broad areas: a) general management, b) technical
supervision, and c) financial mangement.
General Management
1. Review the present organization structure of the CHA, identify
weaknesses and propose a new management structure compatible with
the need to make the organization efficient and viable;
2. Establish the line of authority and responsibilities at
various levels and recommend management control procedures;
3. Examine the current system of data collection and processing
and make recommendations for an information and communications
system which is more in line with the revised organization
structure of the CHA; and



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 26 of 31
4. Examine the current labor regulations and personnel policy and
advise on reforms to increase productivity and to improve
industrial relations in the Authority.
Technical Supervision
1. Examine the current state of technical supervision in the
Authority and recommend ways to make it more efficient;
2. Review procedures relating to materials management, transport
and general stores and sujggest ways for minimizing and eliminating
wastage.
3. Review the current construction methods with a view to
improving labor productivity and achieve greater economy in the
use of building materials.
4. Review specifications of houses currently built by the CHA and
recommend changes, if any, for reducing costs, without, however,
affecting functional requirements;
5. Review the workshop activities and suggest possible
improvements; and
6. Make a detailed inventory of all plants and equipment and
other assets and propose ways to keep them in the best possible
condition and to ensure optimum utilization.
Financial Management
1. Examine the existing financial and accounting procedures,
identify problems and make proposals for a suitable
cost-accounting system for monitoring performance on a continuing
basis;
2. Examine the internal audit system and procedures and suggest
improvements;
3. Examine the present revenue collection procedures and cost
recovery methods and propose improvements.
On the basis of the above, the consultants would be required to
prepare and submit a corporate plan for a period of five years. This plan
would include:



- 74 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 27 of 31
1. a detailed and phased work program for the CHA;
2. the targets to be reached in terms of number and types of
houses to be built;
3. the requirements for various resources such as land,
materials, equipment and manpower; and
4. the definition of the role of the CHA in the overall public
sector housing program.
The consultants should be specialists in financial analysis and
management and have wide knowledge of the operation and functioning of
public sector housing institutions. The consultants should report to the
Ministry of Housing, Land and the Environment. This assignment would have
a duration of six months.
Tentative Starting Date: May 1984
Tentative Completion Date: November 1984



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Page 28 of 31
MAURITIUS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A PROJECT TO DEVELOP GENERAL STRATEGY AND FRAMEWORK FOR INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT
Background
1.        The Data Processing Division of the Ministry of Finance serves
all Government ministries in Mauritius as well as the local
municipalities, the Development Wcrks Corporation and the Sugar
Arbitration Central Board. The Division has two ICL mainframe computers,
an obsolete model 1900, which is to be replaced shortly, and an ME29. The
Division has at present eight systems analysts and ten programmers,
although in the staffing table eleven systems analysts and sixteen
programmers have been allocated.
2.        With these limited resources, the Data Processing Division
handles social security data, trade statistics, income tax, Government
payroll, telephone billing, pensions, rice rationing, unemployment
register, and sales tax, as well as the data processing needs of the
Central Statistics offices, including surveys, housing census, population
census, monthly demographics, medical statistics, records of the Registrar
General and microfiche index. Although the Division is well organized and
efficiently run, the lack of adequate resources results in delays,
difficulties in access and severe restrictions on the introduction of new
applications to meet the Government's expanding needs. The Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development, in order to meet its unique
requirements, has purchased an Apple II micro computer and word processor,
and other ministries are considering similar equipment. The Central Water
Authority has opted for contracting out its data processing and analysis
with a private company in Mauritius.
3.        In addition, Mauritius has an urgent need to collect, process
and analyze additional data, to underpin and expand its existing capacity
for economic planning and in so doing to increase its capacity for
objective policy formulation under tight and changing constraints. Whilst
this need is common to all sectors of the economy, it is clearly obvious
in agriculture where the need to continuously define and redefine the
economic limits that exist for diversification is essential if Government
is to objectively manage the economy's capacity to (i) generate or save
foreign exchange, (ii) productively employ labor and (iii) move towards
more productive use of its limited land resources.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Page 29 of 31
4.        To this end the Government has already agreed to set up two
Commissions of Inquiry, one for sugar and one for tea and to provide
specialized consultant's services to carry out a number of specific
studies. The Government has also a) reviewed the scope for import
substitution; b) commissioned the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research
Institute (MSIRI) to compile an index of the physical and agronomic data
of all sugarcane fields; and c) agreed to a survey of crown lands to
formulate a policy for their optimum utilization.
5.        To effectively utilize the results of these studies and data
collected for objective policy formulation will require considerable
analysis including the means to express this in terms of domestic resource
costs--initially by commodity but eventually in a form that will enable it
to be cross-referenced and presented by land area, production mix or
system, type of producer and impact on the labor market. Accordingly,
there is a need to ensure that in the medium to long-term any
recommendations relating to the computer needs of Government should take
into account the need for compatibility between a wider range of data
types and sources than is currently the case.
6.        The purchase of another ICL ME29 within the next few months will
permit the Data Processing Division to handle its current work load for
the short-run (one to two years) with little or no room for expansion. It
is clear that more and more Government offices will be seeking.
supplementary equipment, both to meet their expanding needs and to avoid
lengthy delays in access to the central computer. The Government has,
therefore, requested a Government-wide analysis of its computer needs in
order to establish a consistent framework for an integrated computer
system which in the medium- and longer-term will need to accomodate a
wider range of data types and sources than it now has the capacity to
handle.
Ob jectiv3:s
7.        The objectives of this project are:
(1) to assist the Government of Mauritius in achieving a consensus
about the general framework it will adopt in the development of
its information resource facilities;
(2) to recommend a multi-year facilities plan that is consistent
with the agreed general framework, that responds to users' needs
and that is detailed and specific for 1984-86 and more general
for years beyond; and



- 77 -
ANNEX IV
Page 30 of 31
(3) to establish a process of periodically updating the facilities
plan.
(4) to recommend capacity requirements for hardware acquiL tion,
software selection and application design.
8. Specific Tasks
(1) The consultant will review and develop a summary report on all
information handling work done by and for the Government of
Mauritius including the Central Ministries, local municipalities
and parastatal organizations. This summary report should
include:
(a) an inventory of the information systems presently in use
and linkages between them;
(b) identification of gaps and specific problem areas in the
present system;
(c) indicative demand projections for facilities through 1986
and an outlook for two years beyond that.
(3) The formulation of alternative frameworks for a Government-wide
information management system. The consultant will recommend
one of the formulated frameworks, giving reasons for the
recommendation by addressing the following issues:
(a)  comparative costs and other trade-offs between
alternatives;
(b) availability of skills and expertise required to implement
alternative systems and an indicator of future staffing
needs;
(c) reliability, availability, and serviceability
considerations;
(d) appropriate combinations of large systems, mini computers,
micro computers, office technology equipment, and external
facilities;
(e)  communication networks to link internal systems for easy
access and storing of data;
(f) storage, control and maintenance of institutional data;



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Page 31 of 31
(g) systems and application software availability;
(h) incorporation or phase-out of existing hardware and
software;
(4) The consultant will obtain approval for the selected framework
from the Government Review Committeee before proceeding with the
detailed equipment and facilities plan, based on the alternative
finally selected.
(5) Following agreement by the Government Review Committee on the
selected framework, the consultant will prepare an Information
Resource Facilities Plan for 1984-1986 including a schedule of
phase-in/phase-out of equipment and software, in accordance with
established priorities, availability of premises, and qualified
staff.
(6) The consultant will recommend steps to be taken to implement the
facilities plan, including capacity requirements for hardware
acquisition, software selection, application design and training
requirements.
Timing
9.        The consultant will work in close coordination with the Data
Processing Division in the Ministry of Finance and the Central Statistics
Office under the general supervision of the Director of Planning, Ministry
of Economic Planning and Development. Proposals for alternative
frameworks for a Government-wide information management system should be
submitted to the Government within four months following the start of the
project. The consultant should allow one month for discussion and
agreement with the Government before proceeding to the final stage. Once
agreement has been reached, the consultants should complete the detailed
Information Resource Facilities Plan including the steps to be taken to
implement the Plan, within one month.
Tentative starting date: March 1984
Completion date:   September 1984



- 79                                               ANNE. V
Page 1 of I
SCHEDULE OF IMPLEFENTATION OF PROJECT STUDIES
1983                            1.-9                                     1985
Itern                       Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun         'ul Aug  Sep  Oct Nov Dec Jan     Feb Mar Apr
Ccmpletion of Sugar
Ccmission of Inquiry                                         X
Data Collection
(Sugar Sector Unit)        X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Tea Industry Review                              X    X    X    X    X
Survey of Crcwn Lands                       X    X    X    X
Index of Nonr-Sugar Lands                   X    X    X    X
Agricultural
Diversification                           X    X    X    X
Fisheries                                                  X                   X    X
Marine Pollution                                                               X    X    X    X     X    X
Rodrigues Developient                       X    X    X    X    X    X
Private Sector
Wage Regulations                                         X    X    X    X     X   X    X
Unemployment Schame                                        X    X    X
Organization Study M[TO                                    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
MGTO Marketing Strategies                                  X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Public Sector Studies                                      X    X    X    X    X    X
Central Housing Authority                             X    X    X    X    X    X
Computer Study                              X    X    X    X    X    X



I BR D 3209R(PPA
DECEMBER 1i9t
MAURITIUS
Point cxCcn noni
---TRUNK ROADS                              /|1               z   ,X      -
ARTERIAL ROADS
OTHER MAIN ROADS                                          t, Ant
.- ...  BUILT  UP  AREAS
SUDAR CANE
LANDS UNDER TEA. POSITION JANUARY  ES..
FOREST & SCRU.LAND
IS., Y4ETS                                      mplenio"
ALTITUDES OVER 1000 FEET
CUI                    LOULISI
( cr  G )\/II\.5e,                                                 THIS MAP ISv BASE Ov 191 329 .
7ort                                     ni
r f c
tw                                              f )       r
. *~~- mireAgi nrs^tanJ~@8@prat@)§ * ,,
edn,P                                        f~r,v/"             .a.on  laIrr  >
Xl4          L  A =   {~                          oidakF#  ^lie.  rk    ~/e  C4
jrdKrftnn sv                                dnrmn



