Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
CONFORMED COPY 
March 26, 2010 
 
H.E. Somdy Douangdy 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Vientiane 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
 
Re:  
LaoPDR: PHRD Grant for Co-financing the Sustainable 
 
Forestry for Rural Development Project  
 
Trust Fund No (TF095057)______________________
Excellency: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic (“Recipient”), I am pleased to inform you that the International 
Development Association (“World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by 
Japan (the “Donor”) under the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD), 
proposes to extend to the Recipient a grant in an amount not to exceed five hundred thousand 
United States Dollars (US$ 500,000) (“Grant”) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in this letter agreement (“Agreement”), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the 
financing of the project described in the Annex (“Project”).  This Grant is funded out of the 
abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic contributions.  In 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this 
Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such 
funds. 
 
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter 
into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement.  
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized 
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to 
the World Bank.  Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement 
shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Annette Dixon 
Authorized Representative 
Country Director, Lao PDR 
East Asia and Pacific Region 
Page  2
-2-
AGREED: 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By________________________________________ 
 
Name /s/ Viengthong Siphandone 
 
Title Vice Minister of Finance 
 
Date: July 7, 2010 
 
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out of Various Funds, 
dated July 1, 2008. 
 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter dated March 26, 2010, together with World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006. 
 
Page  3
-3-
PHRD
 Grant No.TF095057
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 1, 2008 (
“Standard Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement. 
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the project is to co-finance the Forest 
Law Enforcement and Governance Strategy and Capacity Building part of component 3 (Forest 
Sector Monitoring and Control) of the Sustainable Forestry for Rural Development Project II. The 
Project consists of the following part:  
 
Forest Law Enforcement and Governance Strategy and Capacity Building
:
(i) developing a 
Strategy for Forest Law Enforcement and Governance; (ii) carrying out of multi-stakeholder 
consultations; and (iii) conducting specialized training and capacity building for staff of the 
Department of Forest Inspection at central and provincial levels.  
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through Department of Forest 
Inspection, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (“Project Implementing Agency”) in accordance 
with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on 
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”); and (c) this Article 
II.  
 
2.03. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements.
 
The Recipient shall maintain through the period 
of Project implementation a Project Management Unit (PMU) under the Ministry of Agriculture 
and Forestry with qualified staff in adequate numbers, including Financial Management staff, all 
with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank.  
2.04. 
Donor Visibility and Visit
.
(a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such 
measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Donor’s support for 
the Project.   
 
(b) For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon the 
World Bank’s request, enable the representatives of the Donor
 
to visit any part of the Recipient’s 
territory for purposes related to the Project. 
Page  4
-4-
2.05.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, 
and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph (a) consist of the 
following:   
 
(i) 
Forest Law Enforcement Strategy - report completion by June 2010. 
 
 
(ii) 
Law Enforcement Skill - completion of capacity building program and strategy 
implementation by June 2011. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished to the World 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date
.
2.06. 
Financial Management.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the World Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
 
2.07. 
Procurement
 
(a) General
.
All services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred 
to in: 
 
(i) 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
 
(ii) 
the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan”). 
 
Page  5
-5-
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this 
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, 
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
(c)  
Particular Methods of Proc
urement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
(ii) 
The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ 
services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan:  (A) Quality-based 
Selection; (B) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (C) Least Cost Selection; (D) Selection based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; (E) Single-source Selection; (F) Selection of Individual Consultants; 
and (G) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
(d) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
The Procurement Plan 
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.  
 
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
(“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
For the purpose of this section   the term “training” means reasonable expenditures incurred by 
the Recipient for the carrying out of local training activities, including expenditures for facilities 
rental, materials printing and photocopying, supplies, and travel and subsistence for participants. 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
Consultants’ services and 
training 
500,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
500,000  
Page  6
-6-
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient.  
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is July 10, 2013.  
Article IV 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
4.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is Minister of Finance. 
4.02. 
Recipient’s Address
.
The Recipie
nt’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Post Office Box. No.46 
That Louang Road, 
Vientiane 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFINANCE 
 4369 
  856-21-412142 
Vientiane  
MOF 
LS 
 
4.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
