                                                 Document o f
                                             The World Bank
                                        FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                   Report No: 46473-LA




                                             PROJECT PAPER

                                                     ONA

                            PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                                           INTHEAMOUNT OF
                         SDR6.8 MILLION(US$lO.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                   TO THE

                              LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR THE

               SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY FORRURALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                             November 20,2008




RuralDevelopment, NaturalResourcesand EnvironmentSectorUnit
Sustainable DevelopmentDepartment
East Asia andPacific Region


This document has arestricteddistributionandmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                ExchangeRate Effective

                           CurrencyUnit = Lao KIP (LAK)
                               LAK8572 = US$1
                                   US$1 = SDR0.6711

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              October 1    - September31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASEAN     Association o f Southeast Asian Nations
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DA        Designated Account
DAFO      District Agriculture and Forestry Office
DOF       Department o f Forestry
DO1       Department of Inspection
DOFI      Department o f Forest Inspection
FIPD      Forest Inventory andPlanning Division
FCPF      Forest CarbonPartnership Facility
FM        Financial Management
FSC       Forest Stewardship Council
IP        Indigenous Peoples
MAF       Ministry o f Agriculture and Forestry
MIS       Management Information System
MOIC      Ministry o f Industryand Commerce
NAFES     National Agriculture andForestry Extension Service
NAFRI     National Agriculture andForestry ResearchInstitute
N B C A   National Biodiversity Conservation Area
NPMO      National Project Management Office
NSC       National Steering Committee
NSEDP     National Socioeconomic Development Plan
NTFP      NonTimber Forest Product
PAFES     ProvincialAgriculture andForestry Extension Service
PAFO      Provincial Agricultural Forestry Office
PDO       Project Development Objective
PFA       ProductionForest Area
PFS       Provincial Forestry Service
PSFM      Participatory Sustainable Forest Management
REDD      Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation
SOE       Statements o f Expenditure
SWORD     Sustainable Forestry for Rural Development
TA        Technical Assistance
TOR       Terms o f Reference
VD        Village Development
VDF       Village Development Fund

                                                               FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                     Vice President:     JamesW. Adams, EAPVP
                            ActingCountryDirector:       MathewA. Verghis, EASPR
                             Acting Sector Director:     AlfredH.Nickesen, EAPCO
                                    Sector Manager:      RahulRaturi, EASE
                                 Task TeamLeader:        UlrichSchmitt, EASRE




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                         LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

        SUSTAINABLEFORESTRY FORRURALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                          CONTENTS


I Introduction
 .              ................................................................................................................................        1

I1.   CountryContextandProjectBackground                                 ..........................................................................     2

I11. Rationalefor AdditionalFinancingandProposedChanges                                                  .............................................  4

I V.  Consistencywith CountryAssistance Strategy                                 ...................................................................    6

V .  Appraisalof Scaled-up ProjectActivities                           ............................................................................     6

V I
  .  ExpectedOutcomes           ................................................................................................................        9

VI1. RisksandMitigationMeasures                       ..........................................................................................       10

VI11.FinancialTerms     andConditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing                                           .........................................   12

Annex 1: DetailedComponentDescription                                                                                                                  13
Annex 2: FinancialManagement               ....................................................................................................
                                                              ..................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       17
Annex 3: ProcurementArrangements                     ...........................................................................................
Annex 4: SUFORD-AdditionalFinancing:UpdatedandRevisedPerformanceIndicators 35                                                                         .22
Annex 5: Country at a Glance           .......................................................................................................         39
Annex 6: Map of ProjectAreas              .....................................................................................................        40


                                 Project Paper Data Sheet




Development Project                              Acting Country Director: Mathew A.
Project ID: P108505

Recipient: Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)




Current closing date: December 31,2008
Revisedclosing date: December 31. 2011
Does the restructuredor scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bank policies?                                                              oYes X N o
Have these been approvedby Bankmanagement?                                  Not applicable
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                oYes X N o
Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes:

The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist the Borrower to achieve the
sustainable management o f production forests to alleviate rural poverty in the Project
Provinces by implementing the forest policy reform actions and policies set forth in its
Letter o f Forest Management Policy.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.
                                  For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [XIGrant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.):         US$10million
        Proposedterms: N/A




IBRD/IDA
Government o f Finland


I. Introduction

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional grant in an amount o f SDR6.8 million (US$lO million equivalent) to the Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Sustainable Foresty for Rural Development Project -
SUFORD (Cr. 3802).

2.       The proposed grant would help finance the costs associated with the scaled-up
activities and three-year project extension to enhance the impact o f a well-performing
project. Specifically, the grant would support: (a) the geographical expansion o f the
proven SWORD Participatory Sustainable Forest Management (PSFM) model from
currently eight designated Production Forest Areas (PFAs) in four project provinces to
eight new sites in five new project provinces, covering intotal approximately 1.3 million
hectares o f natural production forests (or 40 percent o f all production forests o f Lao
PDR); (b) national policy formulation and implementation covering the development o f
the national forest estate, equitable timber revenue andbenefit sharing arrangements with
local communities, transparent timber sales procedures to maximize timber revenues, and
timber products industry restructuring; and (c) technical assistance (TA) to develop and
implement a comprehensive program o f forest sector monitoring, forest management
control, independent forest certification, and forest law enforcement. The Government o f
Finland has committed to continue parallel financing o f SUFORD during the extension
period inan amount o f EUR9 million.

3.       The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist the Borrower to achieve
the sustainable management of productionforests to alleviate ruralpoverty in the Project
Provinces by implementing theforest policy reform actions and policies set forth in its
Letter of Forest Management Policy.' The PDO remains unchanged for the additional
financing period.       Specific objectives include to: (a) improve the policy, legal and
incentive framework for the expansion o f PSFM throughout the country; (b) bring the
country's priority natural production forests under PSFM; and (c) improve villagers'
well-being and livelihoods through benefits from sustainable forestry and community
development.        The expected outcomes o f the project include: (a) strengthened
government capacity to effectively lead forest policy formulation and implementation and
to provide forest management services at national, province and district levels; (b)
improved forest management o f natural production forests and PFA system as verified
through independent forest management certification; (c) community development and
improved rural livelihoods through participatory planningand the institution o f equitable
and fair benefit sharing arrangements from timber sales; and (d) the establishment o f
efficient forest sector monitoring and control mechanisms.



' The Letter o f Forest Management Policy, dated April 11, 2003, sets out the Government's policy
approach to forest resource management and commitment to sound, sustainable and economically and
socially responsible stewardship o f the country's forests. I t i s included in the original Project Appraisal
Document, dated May 28,2003.




                                                   1

11.      CountryContext and ProjectBackground

4.       Country Context. Lao PDR remains the most densely forested country in
mainland Southeast Asia with forests covering 41 percent o f the total area. Forests figure
prominently inthe economy inseveral respects: Forests are the source o f timber and non-
timber products that are critical income and livelihood resources for rural communities.
Forests are an important economic resource generating employment, local and national
budget revenues, export earnings, and inputs to domestic timber processing. Forests also
harbor most o f the country's biodiversity, most o f which i s o f global importance. The
Government controls virtually all forestland and plays a lead role in forest production
decisions. Greater community involvement, however, i s needed as the Government, in
the foreseeable future, i s unlikely to acquire the means and capacity to conduct quality
forest resource management across the country's vast forests. Because o f limitednumber
o f staff and resources but also in light o f accelerating pressure on forests, the transfer o f
responsibility for management, control, and decision makingto local communities and on
choices between timber and non-timber products and other services o f forests i s o f
critical importance.

5.       Sector Policies. The Government's commitment to reform in the forestry sector
has substantially increased over the past few years with a renewed focus on improving
the management o f natural forests for poverty reduction as documented in the Sixth
National Socioeconomic Development Plan (NSEDP, 2006-10). The Forestry Strategy
2020 stresses the importance o f forests and provides clear policy objectives and targets
for sustainable forest development, which include to: (a) maintain a natural forest cover
to ensure the sustainability o f rural livelihoods, water supply, and mitigation o f natural
disasters; (b) provide a sustainable stream o f diverse forest products for domestic
processing, consumption, and exports; and (c) preserve the country's forestry resource
and biodiversity. The Government also notes the urgency to reverse the ongoing trend o f
deforestation and uncontrolled land conversion through strengthening the legislative
framework and improving forest law enforcement and governance o f the resource.

6.       Despite some remaining weaknesses, the Government has instituted a legal and
regulatory framework that can be regarded as sufficiently comprehensive for the
implementation o f sound management and improved governance o f natural forests. Key
elements o f this framework are the: (a) demarcation o f the national forest estate along
production, protection and conservation forests; (b) completion o f mandatory forest
inventories and management plans prior to the authorization o f harvesting operations in
production forests; (c) devolvement o fmanagement responsibilities to local communities;
and (d) strengthened transparency intimber sales procedures and promoting value-added
domestic processing. Many o f these policies and regulations have been developed with
support from SUFORD andpiloted under the project's PSFMmodel.

7.       Project Background. SUFORD was formulated based on: (a) implementation
experiences o f the earlier Forest Management and Conservation Project (1995-2000),
which successfully demonstrated a highly innovative village forestry approach and the
capacity o f poor communities to manage high value natural production forests, and (b)
the Bank-led Lao PDR Production Forestry Policy Review (2001) and related policy


                                             2

dialogue, which established a consensus with Government on the importance o f the
country's forest resources for poverty reduction. SUFORD was approvedby the Boardin
June 2003 and became effective in February 2004. The current Project Closing Date i s
December 31,2008. SUFORD i s currently financed by an IDA Credit o f SDR7.2 million
with parallel financing provided by the Government o fFinlandinthe amount o f EUR8.5
million. Finland has been a close partner of the Bank's forestry sector engagement and
has committed to continue parallel financing to S W O R D during the extension period in
the amount o f EUR9 million. In addition to production forestry under SWORD, the
Bank is also engaged in forest conservation, e.g. under the Nam Theun Social and
Environment Protection Project and the Integrated Ecosystem and Wildlife Management
Project, financed by the Global Environment Facility.

8.      ProjectDevelopment Objective. The PDO is to assist the Borrower to achieve
the sustainable management of production forests to alleviate rural poverty inthe Project
Provinces by implementing the forest policy reform actions and policies set forth in its
Letter o f Forest Management Policy. The PDO remains unchanged for the additional
financing period. Specific objectives are to: (a) improve the policy, legal and incentive
framework enabling the expansion o f PSFM throughout the country; (b) bring the
country's priority natural production forests under PSFM; and (c) improve villagers'
well-being and livelihoods through benefits from sustainable forestry, community
development,     and development o f viable livelihood systems.             The project i s
comprehensive in scope and covers national policy development, field implementation,
andcapacity development. Itis designed along the following four components:

         (a) Support Services o f Sustainable Forest Management;
         (b) Sustainable Forest Management andVillage Development;
         (c) Forest Sector Monitoringand Control; and
         (d) Project Management.

9.       Achievements and ProjectPerformance. Project achievements to date include
the establishment o f a nationwide Production Forest Area system consisting o f 51 PFAs
covering about 3.6 million hectares; the development o f a national code o f practice for
production forests and guidelines on revenue sharing and competitive timber sales; and
successful implementation o f PSFM in eight priority PFAs o f four provinces covering
about 650,000 hectares. Ofthese 50,000 hectares (infive sub-forest management areas in
two provinces) have been certified in compliance with international standards of the
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-the       only international forest certification o f tropical
production forests in continental Southeast Asia. Independent audits have reconfirmed
the sustainability of demonstrated forest management practices.         In addition, village
institutions for PSFM implementation and village development (VD) have been
established and are functioning in all 18 project districts and 412 villages, with
communities participating in all forest management and village development activities,
which are b d e d by timber revenues and supplemental village grants provided by the
project. Forest monitoring and control systems have been developed and piloted at a
significant scale.




                                            3

10.      Overall implementation performance and progress towards achieving the project
objectives have been satisfactory since late 2005 after an initial period o f poor
implementation during2004-2005 when the project suffered from weak management and
implementation delays. In response to the agreements reached during the Mid-Term
Review o f late 2005, important changes were made by the Government that included the
appointment o f a new Project Director, changes inthe technical assistance support staff,
simplification o f government financial management (FM) and procurement procedures,
and improvements in annual planning and coordination between center and provinces.
These changes led to continued improvements in project management as well as field
implementation and brought the project fully back on track.          Project ratings were
subsequently upgraded from unsatisfactory status in late 2005 to satisfactory for both
Development Objective and Implementation Progress. The Borrower has also been in
compliance with project legal covenants, and no audit reports are outstanding. Improved
project management and field implementation also resulted in accelerated disbursement
o f the IDA Credit funds, which are expected to be fully disbursed by end o f 2008.


111.     Rationale for Additional Financing and Proposed Changes

11.      Rationale for Additional Resources and Project Extension. Strong
Government commitment to sustainable forestry and governance and satisfactory
implementation achievements provide the rationale for additional resources to SWORD
implementation and a three-year project extension. This will allow the Government to
buildon andexpand the now well-tested approach o fPSFMinthe fieldbut also to further
develop and refine the national forestry sector policy and regulatory framework. The
overall design o f the project will remain unchanged but implementation, at this juncture,
would specifically focus on: (a) consolidating and strengthening the project's impacts
through continued operational support to field implementation and transition from
project-supported to routine operations inthe existing four project provinces and sites; (b)
expanding field implementation andcapacitybuildingto five newprovinces and a limited
number o f selected PFAs where PSFM i s technically feasible and appropriate; and (c)
supporting Government's internal policy dialogue and inter-sector coordination to tackle
key policy issues that have not yet been resolved, inparticular with regard to competitive
timber sales procedures, community benefit sharing, andtimber revenue transfers.

12.      Geographical Expansion. During preparation, a site analysis was carried out to
identify suitable PFAs for inclusion into the Project. Based on this analysis and in line
with implementation capacity, field implementationwill be expanded from current eight
PFAs in Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane, and Champasack provinces to an
additional eight PFAs inXayabury, Vientiane, Bolikhamxay, Attapeu, and Sekong (Table
1). All PFAs have been formally established by the Prime Ministerial Decrees No. 27
and 321, except for one Huapen PFA in Sekong, for which approval is expected before
the o f 2008.




                                           4

Table 1. SUFORD ProductionForest Areas
                      -




13.    Additional Activities. Additional activities, which were not part o f the original
scope o f the project but have been incorporated into the implementation plan for the next
three years, include the following:

    o SUFORD would support consultations              and technical assistance on the
       development, identification, andmanagement o f a Protection Forest Area System.
       Although already recognized by law, protection forests have not yet been
       identified or demarcated in any systematic manner nor have appropriate
       management models been developed. However, protection forests are critically
       important for environmental protection and sound watershed management,
       particularly in the context o f the country's significant hydropower development
       strategy. Activities related to defining a Protection Forest Area System,would be
       supported under the Support Sewices for Sustainable Forest Management
       Component (component 1).

   o Under the Forest Sector Monitoring and Control Component (component 3), new
       project activities would include: (a) basic capacity building in forest law
       enforcement for the Department o f Forest Inspection (DOFI) o f the Ministry o f
       Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). This department was established only recently
       in early 2008 with a broad mandate for law enforcement across all forest
       categories; and (b) focused support on forest cover monitoring and change
       detection, which would be extended to forest biomass and carbon stock
       monitoring and be coordinated with the activities under the Government's
       working group on Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation
       (REDD).

14.     ClosingDateExtension. The Closing Date o f the Project would be extended by
three years. The new Closing Date would be December 31, 2011. As part o f the project
extension, the Bank and its donor partners would assist the Government in defining the
future and probably expanded agenda for forestry sector development and support inLao
PDR.


IV.      Consistencywith Country AssistanceStrategy

15.      The Country Assistance Strategy o f 2005 supports the Government inkey aspects
o f its poverty reduction and reform agenda as laid out in the NSEDP. With regard to
forestry, the Bank's forestry engagement falls under the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) Objective 1 `To sustain growth through improved management of key drivers-
regional integration and private sector development, rural development, and natural
resource management.' The CAS Progress Report o f 2007 reaffirms this objective and
notes that progress in achieving the associated outcomes, including forestry sector
outcomes, are well on track. The Bank, through SWORD, has demonstrated its global
comparative advantage in assisting the government in driving a comprehensive sector
reform agenda and this has built confidence and created demand with the client for
continued cooperation. An expansion o f SUFORD is fully inline with the extended CAS
program 2009-2011 where forestry will be a prominent and important element in the
Bank's expanded focus on governance issues innatural resource management. Through
SWORD, the Bank has also been able to establish a long-term cooperation with the
Government o f Finland and leveraged significant additional resources in support of the
sector reform agenda.


V.       Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities

16.      The Bank, in coordination with the Government o f Finland, has appraised the
Government's proposal for Additional Financing and project extension and concluded
that the scaled-up project activities have beenpreparedsatisfactorily.

17.      Technical. The implementation program and technical approach for the coming
three years have been well established and are detailed in Annex 1. In the field, the
project will continue to implement the well-tested PSFM model based on the PSFM
Operations Manual (which has been completed and constitutes the Lao National Code for
Forest Management) and Village Development (VD) Manual.              In addition, detailed
technical guidelines and implementation plans have been prepared for forest law
enforcement awareness building and forest sector monitoring and control. Technical
assistance (TA) to support PFSM and VD field implementation, as well as the
implementation o f policy-related and technical activities has been secured through
significant grant funding provided by the Government o f Finland. The TA team will be
mobilized inearly 2009.

18.      InstitutionalChanges.The institutional arrangements for project implementation
have beenrevised inanticipation o f Additional Financing. As per Ministerial Decision in


                                            6

September 2008, implementation and administrative responsibilities for the project have
been transferred from the National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Services (NAFES)
to the Department o f Forestry (DOF).         DOF will also house the National Project
Management Office (NPMO) and experienced staff previously involved in project
implementation will be transferred to DOF. This change will consolidate and concentrate
overall project coordination and implementation responsibilities under DOF, which is the
leading agency in forestry development. This will also help resolve earlier difficulties
when responsibility for various aspects o f forest policy formulation and field
implementation were distributed across different agencies. A similar consolidation will
take place at the provincial level where the Provincial Forestry Service (PFS) will take on
responsibility for project implementation and coordination at the provincial level. Under
the new arrangement, DOF will coordinate the inputs from all other agencies, including
NAFES, DOFI, Department o f Inspection (DOI), National Agriculture and Forestry
Research Institute (NAFRI), and the Import and Export Department of the Ministry o f
Industry and Commerce (MOIC). These agencies will carry out implementation based on
detailed annual work plans that will be developed under the coordination o f the NPMO.
Project implementation will be carried out under the guidance o f a National Steering
Committee (NSC) that will include representatives from all implementing agencies and
project provinces.

19.     Financing Plan for Additional Financing. A detailed financing plan for the
total financing required for the three-year extension, including the additional IDA Grant
resources has been developed andis summarized intable 2.

Table 2. SUFORDAdditionalFinancing-FinancingPlan2009-2011(US$ million)




 Forest Management
 Component 2:                                        12.0       50       7.5        4.5
 Sustainable Forest Management and Village
 Development
 Component 3:                                        3.7        17       0.7         3.O
 Forest Sector Monitoring and Control
 Component 4:                                        5.0        21        1.5        3.5
 Project Management
 Total Project Cost                                  23.5       100      10.0       13.5

20.     Fiduciary. The financial management (FM) capacity o f the Recipient and the
new project provinces has been assessedandis discussed indetail inAnnex 2. Fiduciary
risks are rated substantial after mitigation due to the overall weak control environment in
the country and low capacity, particularly at the provincial level. During the extension,
SUFORD will apply the same FM and disbursement arrangements used during the
current implementationperiod o fthe project. With the transfer of the NPMO to DOF, the
FM unit, including staff that have been trained in FM and developed good capacity
during ongoing implementation, will also be transferred to DOF and thus continuity in

 FMpersonnel will be ensured. Detailed capacity building, supervision, and controls will
 be implemented duringthe extensionperiod.

 21.      Procurement. Procurement capacity and risk has been assessed and is rated
 substantial after mitigation measures are implemented.                  This rating is based on the
 broader fiduciary risks and the weak procurement environment inLao PDR. To address
 the procurement risk, a qualified international procurement consultant will be engaged by
 the NPMO for the first six months of the project extension.                       The international
 procurement consultant, together with the existing full-time national procurement
 consultant, will assist the NPMO with the implementation o f the Procurement Plan and
 the agreed action plan for strengthening transparency and accountability in procurement
 through capacity buildingfor NPMO and provincial staff. The Procurement Plan, which
 has been approved by the Bank, along with the detailed findings and provision o f the
 procurement assessment, is provided inAnnex 3.

 22.      Environmentaland Social Safeguards. The Bankhas given specific attention to
 environmental and social safeguards aspects during preparation. SWORD i s designated
  as Category A project. Although the project would not have `significant adverse
  environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented' ,Category A for the
  overall project will be maintained for the extension period, because o f the visibility of a
 large-scale forestry project operating innatural tropical forests. The project is triggering
  the following World Bank Safeguards Policies:

  Table3. World BankSafeguardsPoliciestriggered

  potiq?    1;                                                   .
                       t "
                                            ' '  +      $ , * A I      8%'"::.2
                                                  I ?",\   *      , b . .          Triggered
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                Yes
I NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                I        Yes           I
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                 Yes
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                              No
  Physical Cultural Resources (OPBP 4.11)                                              No
  IndigenousPeoples (OPBP 4.10)                                                       Yes
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OPBP 4.12)                                                   Yes
  Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                           No
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                      No
  ProiectsinDismtedAreas (OPBP 7.60)                                                   No

  23.     In accordance with Bank safeguards policy requirements, the Government has
  completed the following preparation tasks and documents:

      o EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP 4.01). An updated Environmental Impact
          Assessment and Social Impact Assessment have been completed through
          independent experts engaged by the Government in accordance with the Bank's
          OP4.01 Environmental Assessment. These assessments describe and analyze the
          environmental and social aspects that are characteristic for the new project areas
          where the project will operate. As part o f the assessment, consultations with
          project-affected people have been carried out and documented. Environmental

        management actions have been developed and are embedded in the PSFM
        Operations Manual.

   o IndigenousPeoples (IP) OP 4.10. Ethnic groups comprise up to 90 percent of
        the population inthe proposednew areas.2 Updated social safeguards documents,
        including a Village Development Manual and Village Consultation Framework
        have been prepared to address and mainstream I P aspects into overall project
        implementation. Revisions to the safeguards instruments also incorporate the
        findings o f a review o f the effectiveness o f and constraints to community
        participation inthe current implementation o f SWORD.

    o Involuntary ResettlementOP 4.12. The project's existing Resettlement Policy
        Framework has been reviewed and updated to be applicable to both old and new
        project areas.

    o Public Disclosure. The Bank's public disclosure requirements have been met
        andall safeguards documents havebeendisclosed incountry andinthe Infoshop.

24.     Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. Project Performance Indicators will
remain largely unchanged. A small number o f indicators, which have proved to be too
complex to monitor in the field and not relevant, have been eliminated. Some minor
adjustments have been made to reflect the completion o f project activities or to consider
the fine-tuned component design. The revised performance indicators are included in
Annex 4.

25.     Policy Exceptions and Readiness. The project is compliant with all applicable
Bank policies andwill not require any exceptions.

VI.     ExpectedOutcomes

26.     The expected outcomes o f the project include: (a) strengthened government
capacity to effectively lead forest policy formulation and implementation and to provide
forest management services at national, provincial and district levels; (b) improved forest
management o f natural production forests and PFA system as verified through
independent forest management certification; (c) community development and improved
rural livelihoods through participatory planning and the institution o f equitable and fair
benefit sharing arrangements from timber sales; and (d) the establishment o f efficient
forest sector monitoring and control mechanisms.               Specific revised targets for each
component and sub-component have been developed to be achieved by the completion o f
the project and are included inAnnex 4.




2Three ethno linguistic groups, including Lao-Tai (Lao Lourn), Mong-Khmer (Lao Theung), and Hmong-
Mien(Lao Soung) consistingofmany sub-ethnic groups liveinthe proposedproject areas.


                                                9

VII.    RisksandMitigationMeasures

27.     Risks factors described inthe original Project Appraisal Document have so far not
emerged as impediments to the project andits objectives andthe risk environment for this
project has improved overall. However, a number o f risks and potentially controversial
aspects o f SWORD need to be flagged:

28.     At the country andsector level, the followingrisks havebeenidentified and rated:

        o Country ownership and sector policies               -  moderate. Government
            commitment to forest sector reform has improved considerably over the past
            years. This commitment is reflected in continuous efforts to advance field
            implementation o f sustainable management and to continuously revise and
            improve forest policies and regulations covering all aspects o f forestry in Lao
            PDR. Itis also reflectedinthe satisfactory implementation of SWORD. Itis
            unlikely that Government would reverse on its strong reform commitment.
            Some questions, however, remainwith regard to the Government's capacity to
            improve inter-sector coordination and institute transparent sales and benefit
            sharing mechanisms throughout the country that allocate a fair share o f timber
            sales proceeds to local communities.

        o Overallgovernancerisks high. The Government is addressing governance
                                        -
            issues through a set of reforms inpublic finance management and other areas.
            Formal mechanisms o f accountability are in place, notably the State Audit
            Organization and the National Assembly with powers to review and approve
            the national budget, legislation, structure o f government, elect and remove
            high constitutional authorities, and ask questions o f government. However,
            while the capacity and independence o f the National Assembly are backed by
            an amended "Law on Oversight by the National Assembly" passed in May
            2006, challenges remain as to its effectiveness as an oversight mechanism,
            including inthe forestry sector.

29.     At the project level, the following risks, andpotentially controversial issues been
identified:

        o Implementation capacity in new provinces            - moderate. New project
            provinces will initially have only weak implementation capacity. This fact
            has beentaken into considerationby: (a) limitingfield implementation to only
            one or two priority PFA sites in each new province; (b) focusing activities on
            the formulation o f sound forest management and village development plans
            rather than implementing field operations; and (c) developing a detailed
            training program for provincial and district staff in each province. New
            provinces will also benefit from good implementation capacity at the central
            level that has been developed during SWORD implementation.

        o Implementation of forest management operations- moderate. SWORD
            is a highly visible project in Lao PDR. It i s currently the largest donor


                                           10

  operation in forestry in Lao PDR supporting the implementation o f forest
 management plans, including timber harvesting.            While forestry is a
  contentious sector, SWORD is generally recognized by civil society as a
 highly innovative forest project because o f its participatory aspects as well as
  its PSFM model. Risks associated with this forestry management operations
  are considered moderated as independent certification has been secured for a
 number o f existing project sites and i s actively pursued for additional sites in
  line with Bank forestry policy requirements.

o Ethnic groups and land use - substantial. During the extension period,
  SWORD will be moving into new project areas that are ethnically and socio-
  economically more diverse and complex than the existing project areas.
  While adequate social safeguards instruments are in place and the technical
  approach to forest management is adequately taking traditional land use
  systems into account, the project, although not linked to these policies, could
 potentially be seen as supporting the government's controversial relocation
  and eradication of shifting cultivation policies.

o Financialmanagement-substantial. FMrisk is highbefore mitigation, due
  to inherent risks, and substantial after mitigation measures have been
  implemented. The FMrisk arises from the overall weak control environment
  andlow capacity at country andproject levels. This risk is exacerbated by the
  fact that the project will operate in new provinces where FM capacity levels
  are very low, at least during initial implementation. Mitigation measures at
 the project level include: (a) recruitment o f FM consultants at central and
 provincial levels; (b) training in World Bank financial management rules to
  new staff; (c) installation o f and training in ACCPAC accounting software;
  and(d) close supervisionbyBankmissions.

o Procurement- substantial. Procurement risk is rated substantial inview o f
 broader fiduciary risks and the weak procurement environment. Inaddition,
  specific risks exist with regard to `soft expenditures', such as incremental
  operating costs and village development grants.        In addition to specific
  capacity building measures and the implementation o f an action plan on
 transparency inprocurement, the project will develop and introduce a number
 of mechanisms to better document and certify transactions for livelihood
 support carried under the VD grants.         These measures will be developed
 during implementation and would include elements such as lists o f recipients
 o f project benefits and project assistance received, inventories o f provided
 livelihood assets, etc., and would subsequently be incorporated into the VD
 Manual.




                                  11

Table4. Project-relatedRisks andMitigationMeasures

                                                      Mltig"titionmeasures                    ..
                                                                                          i

Low absorption and implementation          Moderate    Limitednumber of new field sites;
capacity innew SUFORD provinces.                       capacity building, strong technical
                                                       implementation capacity at national
                                                       level built during SUFORD
                                                       implementation.
Visibility ofimplementation of             Moderate    InlinewithBank OPBP4.36,
commercial forest management                           independent certification i s maintained
operations.                                            inanumberofexistingprojectareas
                                                       and beingpursuedfor additional areas.
Association of SUFORD with                 Substantial Implementation o f safeguards
Government's controversial relocationand               measuresthat ensure consultationand
shiftingcultivation eradication policies.             participation as well as integration o f
                                                       traditional landuse systeminto the
                                                       PSFMapproach.
Overall highFMrisk, due to inherent        Substantial Recruitment o f FMconsultants at
country risks, weak control environment,               central and provincial levels; training
and low capacity at country and project                inWorld Bank financial management
level. Additional risks innew provinces               rules to new staff; ACCPAC
where FMcapacity levels i s very low.                  installation and training; close
                                                       supervisionby the Bankmissions.
Procurement risk i s rated substantial in  Substantial Capacity buildingmeasuresand an
view ofbroader fiduciary risks and the                 action planon transparency in
weak procurement environment. Specific                 procurement will be implemented. In
risks exist with regardto 'soft                        addition, mechanisms to better
expenditures'.                                         document and certify 'soft'
                                                       transactions for livelihoodsupport
                                                       carried under the VD grants will be
                                                       developed duringimplementation for
                                                       inclusion into the VD Manual.


VIII. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

30.      The additional financing o f US$lO.O million equivalent will be provided as an
IDA Grant. Conditions o f effectiveness would include: (a) receipt o f the legal opinion
certifying that the Financing Agreement will be duly authorized and executed by the
Government o f Lao PDR and is legally binding; (b) selection of an international
procurement advisor for the first six months o f project extension based on Terms o f
Reference satisfactory to IDA; and (c) the Co-financing Agreement with the Republic o f
Finlandhas been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness
or to the right o f the Recipient to makewithdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness
ofthe FinancingAgreement) have been fulfilled.




                                           12

                      Annex 1: Detailed Component Description
                 Sustainable Forestry for RuralDevelopment Project

Part A  - Support   Services for Sustainable Forest Management. This component will
support the further consolidation and completion o f the regulatory and policy framework
defining the national production, protection, and conservation forest estate o f Lao PDR
and for the implementation o f Participatory Sustainable Forest Management (PSFM). It
will support Department o f Forestry (DOF) to be an effective leader in forest policy
formulation and implementation and strengthen government capacity to provide forest
management services at national, provincial, district and village levels. During the
Additional Financing period, this component will finance equipment, technical
assistance, satellite imagery and mapping, policy studies, training, workshops and
                                                              I

conferences, and incremental operating cost.       It will support the following sub-
components and activities:


    0  Forestrv Sector Policv Reform Support. This sub-component will support: (i)
       inter-sectoral conferences and working groups that involve the Prime Minister's
       Office, MAF, MOIC, and Ministry o f Finance (MOF) to complete and apply
       inter-agency agreements on transparent competitive log sales, wood pricing
       procedures, and fair benefit sharing and revenue transfer systems; (ii)annual
       consultations o f Government on the determination o f sustainable yields and the
       conduct o f logging and timber sales, including infrastructure-related salvage
       logging operations; (iii)an annual National Forestry Policy Conference; and (iv) a
       sector-wide economic analysis to determine the long-term economic sustainability
       o fthe PSFM approach to production forestry based on equitable benefit sharing.


    0  Establishment of a Protection Forest Svstem. The forests o f Lao PDR are
       classified into three categories: National Biodiversity Conservation Areas
       (NEXAs),     Production Forests, and Protection. While a system o f NI3CAs has
       already been established a few years back and the formal establishment and
       operation o f the national PFA system is expected to be completed soon, this sub-
       component will expand policy support and technical assistance to the initial
       formulation o f a regulatory framework, procedures, guidelines and criteria for the
       establishment o f a Protection Forest Area System, including mapping exercises
       and development o f management approaches under the overall forest land
       allocationprocess.


    0  Forest Management Guidelines and Procedures. This sub-component has been
       completed.


    0  Strengthening Sustainable Forest Management Capacitv. This sub-component
       will support: (i) expansion o f the country-wide permanent sample plot system
                        the
       and growth and yield studies for important timber species; (ii)  formulation o f a
       timber industry restructuring program (iii)   studies on the properties, technical
       utilization, and marketing o f lesser-known timber species and non-timber forest
       products; (iv) reduced impact logging promotion and training; (v) forest



                                          13

        certification in the context o f Association o f Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
        cooperation; and (vi) research on new management models for the diverse forest
        types occurring innew project areas such as mixed deciduous and dry-dipterocarp
        forests.

Part B Sustainable Forest Management and Village Development. Implementation
        -
o f this component will be geographically expanded based on the existing and proven
PSFM practices from four provinces (Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane, and
Champasack) at present to an additional five provinces (Attapeu, Sekong, Bolikhamxay,
Vientiane and Xayabury). Intotal, the project will include 16 PFAs covering a total area
o f approximately 1.3 million hectares and 600 villages.       It will consist of two sub-
components:

        Participatorv Sustainable Forest Management.              Under the PSFM sub-
        component, the project will finance goods (vehicles, computers, satellite images,
        andfield equipment), incremental operatingcosts, and training for the preparation
        and implementation of PFA management plans and Forest Management Areas
        annual operation plans and for strengthening PSFM capacity o f provincial and
        district Forest Management Units andvillagers. Inexisting project PFAs, support
        will be limitedto providing incremental operating costs and focused on deepening
        and consolidating capacity to plan and implement routine operations, while
        investment support will be directed at the new project areas to build basic
        implementation infrastructure and focus on land use and forest management and
        operational planning, capacity building, and piloting o f harvesting operations
        towards the end o f the Additional Financing period.                  Sub-component
        implementation will apply the detailed guidelines and steps laid out inthe PSFM
        Operations Manual and apply the Consultation Framework included in the VD
        Manual to take the needs and conditions o f ethnic groups inthe new project areas
        into account.

        Villaae Development.        Under the Village Development sub-component, the
        project will continue to finance incremental operating costs, training for
        provincial, district staff, and villagers in the preparation o f village development
        plans and provide for VD grants for the implementation o f small-scale village
        infrastructure and income-generating activities. Implementation o f VD grants
        will be embedded in the PSFM approach and guided by the project VD Manual,
        including Community Participation in Procurement. Under this component, the
        project will also develop mechanisms to document and certify transactions for
        livelihood support carried under the VD grants for inclusion into the VD Manual,
        such as list o f recipients and assistance received, inventories o f provided
        livelihood assets, etc.

Part C Forest Sector Monitoring and Control. This component will support the
         -
implementation o f an efficient and comprehensive forest monitoring and internal and
external control system as well as independent forest management certification. The
component will provide for technical assistance, workshops, specialized training,



                                             14

equipment (computers, vehicles, field tools, office infrastructure, IT soft-, and hardware),
incremental operating cost and allowances, and forest management auditing services.
The component consists o f four interrelatedsub-components:

      Forest Cover Monitoring. This sub-component will buildon existing work o f the
      Forest Inventory and Planning Division (FIPD) and the recent forest cover
      surveys and will include: (i)training for FIPD staff in forest cover monitoring
      based on newly available satellite imagery and point sampling interpretation to
      compare most recent forest cover changes for selected `hot spot' provinces; and
      (ii) developmentofacomprehensivetechnicaldesignforanintegratedforest
          the
      inventory and cover monitoring and data management system. This design will
      take the needs and requirements for monitoring forest cover, forest quality, and, to
      the extent possible, biomass and forest carbon stocks into considerationto provide
      inputs into the REDD process. Implementation o f such technical design and
      system may be financed separately under Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
      (FCPF) or other donors and discussed under the umbrella o f the working group on
      REDD set upbythe Government.

      Internal Control and Manaaement Information Svstem (MIS).                   This sub-
      component will support the development o f internal control and reporting systems
      covering forest management operations, conduct o f timber sales procedures, and
      revenue flows. It will support the formulation o f management standards to be
      attained inroutine operations andthe development o f guidelines andprotocols for
      internal control procedures, including field inspections, monitoring o f corrective
      actions, reconciliations of physical and financial projections and realizations,
      generation o f exception reports, and clarification o f staff responsibilities at all
      levels. It will also support the further development o f a M I S where all forest
      management and timber sales information is stored, analyzed, and disseminated
      along with internal control information for decision-making purposes. This sub-
      component will be closely integrated with the following sub-component.

    e External Control and Awareness Building on the Enforcement of the Forest
      Law. This sub-component will build basic capacity inthe DOFIto become - in
      partnership with other agencies - effective in preventing, detecting and
      suppressing crime across the range o f forest landscapes and forest products supply
      chains. Project activities will include: (i)   Intelligence Svstems Develovment, to
      establish information tools and capacity to manage and disseminate law
      enforcement intelligence.      This will include the formulation o f "red flag"
      indicators; development o f a Case Tracking System to enable case management
      and handling; and development o f procedures for disseminating intelligence to
      other law enforcement agencies and policy making authorities; (ii)        Interagencv
      Agreements and Overations, to develop partnerships and engage with other law
      enforcement agencies (e.g. Customs, Economic Police, the Bank o f Lao PDR
      Anti-Money Laundering Unit, etc.) in their appropriate roles in forest law
      enforcement.   A specific focus will be the development of arrangements with
      DOF with regard to divisions o f labor and protocols that conform with the



                                          15

        mandates o f each agency; (iii) Law Enforcement Training and Public
                                            Forest
        Awareness, including specialized training to DOFI and DOF (and other agency)
         staff at national, provincial and district levels, and development and dissemination
         o f public awareness material for the general public and private sector audiences
         (such as forest industry and agro-industry and mining enterprises) on Lao forest
         law and law enforcement policies; and (iv) Forest Law Enforcement Stratem,
         entailing the integration o f project experiences and from other sources and the
         formulation o f a long-term and formally endorsed strategy for forest law
         enforcement in Lao PDR. A detailed technical report on sub-component
         implementationwill be provided separately.

        Independent Manazement Certification. This sub-component will cover the cost
         associated with the maintenance o f the FSC group certificate held at the DOF and
         the expansion o fthe pool o fcertified sub-FMAs inproject areas that have attained
         PSFM standards.

Part D - Project Management. This component will continue to provide support to
facilitate efficient project implementation and coordination between the various
government agencies at national, provincial, and local levels under the supervision and
guidance o f the NSC, DOF, and NPMO. Specifically, the component will support: (i)        the
establishment o f Provincial Implementation Units and capacity building in new project
provinces; coordination o f annual work planning with other central level agencies and the
provinces; (ii)   planning for transition to routine operations; (iii)  overall financial and
procurement management; (iv) annual reporting; and (v) monitoring and evaluation o f
project activities andupdates to the project baseline and indicators.




                                             16

                           Annex 2: FinancialManagement
                 SustainableForestryfor RuralDevelopmentProject

FinancialManagementResponsibilities

1.      For the Additional Financing, overall project implementation responsibility will
be transferred from the National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Service (NAFES) to
the Department o f Forestry (DOF), as per MAF decision (July 29, 2008). DOF will
house the National Project Management Office (NPMO) and will be responsible for the
financial management functions o f the project. The DOF, under delegated authority o f
the Ministry o f Finance, will be responsible, through the NPMO, for managing the
disbursement o f funds from the Designated Account (DA) to the participating central-
level implementingagencies, including DOFI, DOI, NAFES,NAFRIand the Department
o f Import and Export o f MOIC based on agreed work plans and disbursement requests.
These agencies will not operate separateproject bank accounts.

2.      The NPMO will also be responsible for overseeing field implementation and
financial management in the nine participating project provinces.        In line with the
decentralized nature o f project implementation, the provinces will continue to operate
(existing provinces) or open (new project provinces) US$ denominated project bank
accounts at a commercial bank ineach province acceptable to IDA. The accounts will be
managed by the Provincial Forestry Service (PFS) financial officers under supervision o f
the NPMO financial management unit. Each provincial project account will be advanced
a stipulated amount o f funds from the Designated Account equivalent to three months o f
average project expenditures, which-based      on the project work plan and budget-
amounts to US$30,000. The provincial project bank accounts should be replenishedon a
monthly basis from the Designated Account based on returns submitted by the provinces
on the usage o f the previous advance. The NPMO will also replenish the Designated
Account from IDA on a monthlybasis.

FinancialManapementCapacity andRiskMitipation

3.      The financial management capacity o f DOF and new project provinces has been
assessedby IDA to determine whether financial management arrangements and capacity
meet the minimumrequirements o f the Association. Duringthe extension, SWORD will
apply the same financial management and disbursement arrangements used during the
current implementationperiod o f the project. With the transfer o f the NPMO to DOF, the
FMunit, including staff that have already beentrained and developed good FMcapacity
duringongoing implementation, will also betransferred to DOF, thus ensuring continuity
in FM personnel.      However, some experienced staff has been reassigned, so the
recruitment o f qualified staff should be carried out carefully. This will be addressed
through:

      o Recruitment one international FM consultant housed in the NPMO and five
          provincial FM consultants; one in Champasackl Saravane; one in Attaped
          Sekong; one inKhamouanel Savannakhet; one in Vientiane/ Bolikhamxay; and




                                         17

          one in Xayabury. FM consultants will be recruited by grant funding from the
          Government o f Finland.
      o Installation o fACCPAC accounting software innew provinces.
      o Training o f all financial staff in IDA financial management and disbursement
          policies andprocedures and ACCPAC accounting system.
      o Close supervision o f the Project as Additional Financing comes on stream
          aimed at addressing any new risks and assessing the effectiveness o f existing
          riskmitigationmeasures.

4.      The existing SWORD Financial Management Manual o f the Project, which
describes the flow o f funds, responsibilities and delegation o f authorities, disbursement
procedures, internal control, accounting policies and procedures, transaction flows and
reporting procedures as well as budget preparation procedures, is deemed fully adequate
for the project implementation under additional financing.

5.      Accounting System. The Project will continue to use the ACCPAC accounting
software for data processing and financial management reporting. Additional hardware
and software licenses (if any) will be procured for installation in the new project
provinces along with training and PFS financial officers and technical assistance to the
NPMO andprovincial implementationunits.

6.      Financial Monitoring and Reporting.         The project shall continue to provide
quarterly Interim Financial Reports satisfactory to IDA. The format o f these reports will
remain as i s for the Additional Financingperiod.

FinancialManapementRisks

7.       The FMrisk rating o f the Additional Financingi s highbefore mitigating measures
are implemented, due to inherent FMrisks, and substantial after the measures. The high-
risk rating arises from the weak control environment in the country and low capacity.
This i s exacerbated by the fact that the Project operates at provincial level where capacity
i s very low. External audit is weak and internal audit is non-existent. The mitigating
measures at the country level include implementation o f various reforms in Public
Financial Management under the Public Expenditure Management Strengthening
Program. Additional measures (beyond those already being implemented in the Project)
include the recruitment o f a senior FM consultant to be based at central level and five
local FM consultants to be based at the provincial level to provide close supervision o f
the financial staff, additional training in World Bank financial management rules to new
staff, andclose supervision by the Bank missions.

DesignatedAccount

8.       IDA funds under Additional Financing will be channeled through the DA already
opened for the existing Credit and managed by MOF at the Bank o f Lao PDR. The
account i s denominated in U S dollars. The DAYwhich would cover the IDA share o f
eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, will maintain the ceiling o f US$1
million. To the extent practical, the remaining Credit proceeds inthe DA should be fully



                                            18

  disbursed first. The DA should be replenished on a monthly basis to assure liquidity o f
  funds or when the account is drawn down by 20 percent o f the initial deposit o f
  whichever comes first.       All replenishment applications will be accompanied by
  reconciledbank statements from the depository banks showing all transactions inthe DA
  and all provincial bank accounts. Independent auditors acceptable to the Association will
  audit the DA annually.

  DisbursementArrangements

  9.      Disbursement from the IDA Credit and Grant will continue to use the traditional
  systemfrom the DAYwith reimbursements made basedon full documentationand against
  Statements o f Expenditures (SOE), and direct payments from the Credit and Grant
  Accounts.

   10.    The proceeds from the remaining Credit and proposed Grant will be disbursed
  against the Disbursement Categories as follows:

  Table 1. DisbursementCategories




I Works                     I    880.000       I    370.000     1 550.000   I      100%      I
  Goods                          1,598,400        1,620,000      2,400,000         100%
  Consultant's Services           103.500           200.000       300.000          100%
I Village Development       I    1,790,000     I  1,300,000     I 1,900,000 I      100%      I


  Training and Workshops         287,500          1,110,000      1,650,000         100%
 Unallocated                         -                                -
I TOTAL                          7,200,000     I  6,800,000     I10,000,000 I

  Use of Statements of Expenditures(SOE)

   11.    Proceeds o f the Additional Financingwill be disbursed on the basis o f Statements
  o f Expenditure (SOE) as follows: (a) civil works contracts costing US$25,000 or less
  equivalent per contract; (b) goods costing US$50,000 or less equivalent per contract; (c)
  service contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each
  and service contracts for firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each; (d) Village
  DevelopmentGrants; (e) incrementaloperating costs; and (f) training andworkshops.

  12.     Disbursementsfor services and goods exceeding the above limits will be made in
  accordance with respective procurement guidelines and provisions in the Legal
  Agreement against submission o f full documentation and signed contracts.



                                            19

13.     The documentation supporting SOE disbursements will be retained by the DOF
and PFS duringthe life o f the Project and untilthe later o f (i) year after the receipt
                                                                    one
o f the audit report for the last year inwhich the last disbursement was made; and (ii) two
years after the Closing Date. The auditors and IDA supervision missions will make these
documents available for review. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will audit the
SOE documents annually. Should the auditors or IDA supervision missions find that
disbursements have been made that are not justified by supporting documentation, or are
ineligible, IDA will have the right to withhold further deposits to the DA. IDA may
exercise this right until the Borrower / Recipient has refunded the amount involved or (if
IDA agrees) has submitted evidence o f other eligible expenditures that offset the
ineligible amounts.

Controlof Soft Expenditures

14.     A number o f additional measures to strengthen the controls related to soft
expenditures (e.g. per diems, travel, accommodation, fuel, training, workshop, and
seminar costs) will be described in the FM Manual. Proper budgeting, authorization,
control, monitoring, and accounting o f these expenditures are the responsibility o f the
Project Director. The FM Unit will have special oversight responsibilities. The project
financial officers will be responsible for ensuring that the management controls specified
inthe FMManual are enforced. These controls included:

       o Procedures for Budgeting and Acquitting o fExpenditures for Workshops. This
          will include, for example, controls on attendance, controls against budgeted
          expenditures, and the FM Unit undertaking verification, including (where
          appropriate) spot checks;
       o Procedures for control o f fuel; and
       o Maintenanceo f advance records.

Auditing

15.     The annual financial statements and DA for the Project will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, based on terms o f reference (TOR) acceptable to
IDA. The audit TOR will cover both the annual audit o f the project financial statements
including their consistency with the quarterly IFRs, and a review o f internal controls and
compliance with the Project Agreement. The Audit Terms o f Reference for the existing
IDA Credit will be revised at the start o f the Additional Financing to also cover the IDA
Grant. The auditor will be required to issue a management letter providing an assessment
of the financial management system, including the adequacy o f internal controls. The
audit report and the management letter must be submitted to the Bank within six months
after the end o f each fiscal year. The cost o f audit i s provided inthe project budget and
will be paid out o fproject funds as an authorized expenditure.




                                            20

  SupervisionPlan

  16.     As the FMrisk is assessed, as substantial, financial management supervision will
 be undertaken twice a year by members o f the regional FM team. The supervision will
 review the Project's financial management systems and capacity, in accordance with the
  FMManual, including butnot limitedto the operationofDA andProject Bank Accounts,
  evaluating quality o f budgets, financial reports, assessing relevance of FM Manual,
  statement of expenditures, internal controls, reporting and follow up of audit and mission
  findings. Special attention to review of soft expenditures to check whether they are spent
  on authentic activities will also be undertaken. Intensity o f supervision will be reassessed
  after the first year o f implementation.

  Table 2. FinancialManagementAction Plan




                                                  NPMO/Consultant          ByFebruary2009

  Recruitment of five provincial local FM         NPMO/Government          ByFebruary2009
  consultants and one internationalFM                 of Finland
  consultant housed inNPMO
1 Inclusion of controls to monitor soft                 NPMO                 ByJune 2009
                                                                         ~



  expenditures

                         Annex 3: ProcurementArrangements
                 SustainableForestry for RuralDevelopmentProject

General

1.      Procurement for the proposed Project will be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y
2004, revised October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised October 2006, and the provisions
stipulated in the Legal Agreements.     For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), the
Government's procurement procedures as provided in Decree 0 3 P M dated January 9,
2004, and in the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) dated March 12, 2004, will
be followed subject to the improvements listed inthe NCB-Annex to the legal agreement.
The appropriate Standard BiddingDocuments developed by the Procurement Monitoring
Office (PrMO), Ministry o f Finance, will be used for procurement o f goods and works
under NCB and Shopping, subject to IDA's prior concurrence.            For International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), IDA's Standard Bidding Documents shall be used. The
complaints handlingmechanism specified inthe Government's IRRwill be followed and
incorporated in the bidding documents.      Contract award information shall be made
publicly available in accordance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines in a format agreed
with IDA. The general descriptions o fvarious items under different expenditure category
are described below.

2.      For each contract to be financed by the IDA Grant, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs,
prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the
Bank's Task Team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

3.      Procurementof Works. Works procuredunder this Project would include office
renovation and IT infrastructure construction at national, provincial and district offices.
Contracts for these works costing US$300,000 or more each shall be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Works estimated to cost less than US$300,000
per contract may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method and
the procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in the Decree 0 3 B M
dated January 9, 2004, and inthe IRR dated March 12, 2004, including national standard
bidding document with IDA's prior concurrence, will be followed subject to the
improvements listed in the NCB-Annex to the Legal Agreement. Works estimated to
cost less than US$30,000 per contract may be procured through Shopping method andthe
procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in the aforesaid Decree and
IRR.

4.      Works under the Village Development Grants (sub-component 2.2), including
small-value contracts for infrastructure and non-consulting services will be carried out
through Community Participation in Procurement method as stipulated in the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.     Such contracts estimated to cost less than US$5,000 per


                                         22

contract may be procured in accordance with the procurement procedures set forth inthe
Operations Manual.

5.      Procurementof Goods. Goods procuredunder this Project would include: office
equipment, software, radio systems, vehicles, motorcycles, computers, satellite imagery,
and h i t u r e for national, provincial and district offices. Contract for goods costing
US$lOO,OOO or more each shall be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB).    Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract may be procured
through N C B method and the procedures, including standard bidding documents, set
forth inthe Decree 0 3 P M dated January 9, 2004, and in the IRR dated March 12, 2004,
including national standard bidding document with IDA'Sprior concurrence, will be
followed subject to the improvements listed in the NCB-Annex to the Legal Agreement.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may be procured through
Shopping method and the procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in
the aforesaid Decree and IRR. With the prior concurrence o f IDA, goods that meet the
circumstances specified inparagraph 3.6 o f the Procurement Guidelines may be procured
through Direct Contracting. Small quantities o f off-the-shelf goods may be procured
from United Nations Agencies in accordance with paragraph 3.9 o f the Procurement
Guidelines.

6.      Goods under the Village Development Grants, be procured under the Community
Participation inProcurement method as stipulated inthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Such contracts estimated to cost less than US$5,000 per contract may be procured in
accordance with the procurement procedures set forth inthe Operations Manual.

7.      Selection of Consultants. Consultant services are expected in the following
areas: forest management advisory, procurement, management audits (independent forest
certification), financial audits, and Project staff support.    The use o f Single Source
Selection method for specific assignments would be subject to prior review `andclearance
with the Bank in the Procurement Plan. Quality and Cost Based Selection would
generally be the applicable method for contracts with firms estimated to cost more than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent.       Contracts with firms estimated to cost equal or less than
US$lOO,OOO may be procured through the method Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications. Firms for financial audit will be selected through the Least Cost Selection
method.     Specific assignments that meet the criterion under paragraph 3.10 o f the
Consultant Guidelines may be awarded, with prior concurrence o f the Bank, through
Single-Source Selection method.

8.      Individual Consultants may be selected in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4 o f the Consultants Guidelines. Under the circumstances described
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contract may be awarded to
individual consultant on a sole-source basis, subject to the prior approval o f the Bank.




                                          23

Assessment of the Apencv's Capacitvto ImplementProcurement

9.      An IDA procurement accredited staff carried out a procurement capacity
assessment during the project pre-appraisal in June/July 2008 and follow-on discussion
continued through appraisal.       The assessment has been conducted for the following
project implementing agencies:

        o National Project Management Office inthe National Agriculture andForestry
            Extension Service (NAFES);
        o Administration & Personnel Division inthe Department o fForestry;
        o Two Forestry Sections in the Provincial Agriculture & Forestry Office in
            Bolikhamxay and Sekong Provinces.

10.     Based on the above assessment, the procurement issues and risks for
implementation o f the proposedproject are mainly related to: (a) inadequate procurement
knowledge and experience o f the project implementing agencies at provincial, district and
village levels, and (b) overall weak procurement environment inthe country. As a result,
the project's procurement risk prior to mitigation i s considered high.

11.     Procurement o f all consultants' services, central building renovation, vehicles,
office equipment, field equipment, and consumables inthe central office financed by the
IDA will be undertaken by the NPMO, which will be transferred from NAFES to DOF.
The NPMO began to manage procurement for IDA-funded activities o f SUFORD since
2003.    At project start in 2003, procurement activities were slow as the Project
Coordinator and the assigned procurement staff were not familiar with the Bank's
procurement procedures. Even though there was a national Procurement Consultant for
the first year o f the Project, there was little attention to buildingawareness and capacity
o f government staff, which i s required for processing procurement actions and approvals.

12.     In 2005, MAF decided to change the management of NPMO as well as the
procurement staff. A new Project Coordinator was assigned to the NPMO, which had
prior experience in project implementation using IDA'Sprocurement procedures under
the Forest Management & ConservationProject (closed inDecember 2000). The Head o f
Project Administration Unit o f the NPMO, who was assigned as Procurement Officer,
was familiar with Lao Government Procurement Regulations. It was also agreed at that
time to recruit a national Procurement Consultant under the TA budget provided by the
Government o f Finland. The consultant, selected in a competitive process, had
experience in IDA procurement guidelines through previous involvement in the IDA-
funded Land Titling Project I.With the change in project management and with the
support o f the experienced procurement consultant, procurement performance improved
andwas brought to a satisfactorylevel in2006.

13.     The NPMO has greatly benefited from this experience inprocurement. However,
procurement capacity o f DOF staff remains weak and the new project provinces will
have, at least initially, inadequate knowledge and experience in IDA procurement
procedures and guidelines. Even in existing project provinces, a national procurement



                                             24

consultant (funded under Finnish contribution) provides continued procurement support.
Under Additional Financing, a number o f capacity strengthening measures and an action
for strengthening transparency and accountability in procurement have therefore been
agreed upon during appraisal. This will ensure that: (a) overall procurement capacity o f
government staff will be strengthened; (b) an effective procurement management systems
will be put in place; and (c) adequate support for procurement implementation is
available. The below actionplanhas been agreed upon duringnegotiations.

Capacity StrengtheninpMeasuresand ProcurementAction Plan

14.    The following measures to strengthen overall procurement capacity have been
agreed:
           In addition to the existing national procurement consultant housed in the
           NPMO (funded by the Finnish contribution),            a qualified international
           individual consultant would be engaged by the NPMO as full-time
           Procurement Consultant for at least the first six months o f project
           implementation.      This consultant will assist in the strengthening o f
           procurement capacity, including structured and hands-on training o f relevant
           government staff inthe NPMO and o f staff inthe line provincial departments,
           districts, and villages.  Shehe would also recommend improvements in
           procurement management systems at the different levels and assisting with
           procurement implementation in compliance with the agreed procurement
           procedures and IDAprocurement guidelines.


        0  A qualified government staff will be assigned by the NPMO to serve as the
           focal point for coordination, consultation, and follow-up o f procurement
           activities within the NPMO, the line provincial departments, districts and
           villages, with support o f the international and national procurement
           consultants.   The provincial departments, districts and villages will also
           nominate at least one relevant person each for purposes o f receiving
           procurement training for the possibility o f serving as future procurement focal
           points intheir respective agencies.


        0  The Terms o f Reference for the international procurement consultant will
           explicitly include procurement capacity building as a key activity with
           measurable outcomes.

           The NPMO will organize a procurement training workshop for the project
           implementing staff with assistance from the Procurement Monitoring Office
           (PrMO), Ministry o f Finance, and World Bank procurement staff, within one
           montho fproject effectiveness, andperiodically duringthe life o fthe project.

           The NPMO will adopt a project procurement record and filing system
           acceptable to IDA, and further improvements in procurement management
           systems as recommended by the international procurement consultant will be
           adopted as appropriate.



                                         25

15.    The following actions for strengthening transparency and accountability in the
procurement process were agreed upon during negotiations and will be implemented
before implementation o f the first procurement under the Additional Financing. It will
include (but not limitedto) the following elements:


        0  Use o f standard Bidding Documents, Request for Quotations and Bid
           Evaluation Report as issued by the Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO),
           MOF for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and Shopping procedures as
           deemed acceptable to IDA.
           Definition o f the roles and responsibilities o f procurement staff and approval
           procedures.
           Enhanced public disclosure o f procurement information (through the MAF
           website), including annual Procurement Plan and updates and a quarterly
           summary o f all contract award information. In addition, the NPMO will
           advise the public o f the right to inspect relevant documents free o f charge.
           Establishment o f a procurement complaint handling mechanism, requiring
           integrity pacts, and sanctions procedures consistent with the Government
           Procurement Rules & Regulations o f PrMO and IDA requirements and
           including the designation o f a person in the NPMO to receive and respond to
           procurement related complaints.

16.     With incorporation o f the capacity strengthening measures and extensive
requirements for improving governance and increasing transparency and accountability in
the procurement process, the residual procurement risk under the Project is Substantial.

ProcurementPlan

17.     The detailed Procurement Plan for the three-year additional financing period has
been prepared and agreed upon during negotiations.          The Procurement Plan will be
updated in agreement with the Task Team annually as required to reflect the actual
project implementationneeds and improvement.

IDA ProcurementReviewRequirements

18.     The following contracts shall be subject to IDA'Sprior review inaccordance with
the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines:

    (a) All contracts for goods and works procured through ICB.

    (b) The first NCB andfirst Shoppingcontract for procuremento f goods andworks by
        each implementing agency at national andprovincial levels ineach year.

    (c) All contracts for goods andworks procured through direct contracting.

    (d) The first contract each for goods andworks under Village Development Grants o f
        eachprovince ineach year.


                                            26

              (e) The first contract for hiring o f consulting firms and the first contract for hiringo f
                  individuals regardless o f value, and all subsequent consulting services contracts
                  exceeding US$l00,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for
                  individuals per contract respectively.

              (0 All contracts for hiringconsulting firms procuredthrough single source selection
                  and all contracts for the recruitment o f individualconsultants through sole-source
                  selection.

           19.    All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by IDA, and will include
           checks for transparency inthe procurement process andverification o f end-use deliveries,
           in addition to verification of compliance with the agreed procurement procedures. The
           percentage to apply to the sample for ex-post review will be 30 percent.

           20.    Frequencyof Supervision. Inaddition to the prior review, the assessmentof the
           capacity o f the Project Implementing Agency recommended that procurement
           supervision missions includingpost review will be conducted at least twice per year.

           Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsFinancedbv IDA

           1.     Goods and CivilWorks:

            (a) List o f ICB contract packageswhich will beprocured duringthe three year o fthe
               project.

Table 1. Summary of Goods' Packages to be procuredunder ICB




                     double cab 28
                     units
ICB-2                Computer,          411,060         ICB          Yes          Prior         Feb2009    NPMO
                     office
                     equipment, IT
                     accessories &
                     network server
                     packages
ICB-3                Off-road            130,000        ICB          Yes          Prior         Mar 2009   NPMO
                     motorcycles
                     125 cc 40 units
                     & motorcycles
                     110cc 55 units
                                                                      =___i
ICB-4                Pick-up4 x 4       621,000         ICB          Yes          Pnor          Jan 2010   NPMO
                     double cab 27
                     units
. .




                                                      27

(b) All ICB contracts and all direct contracting contracts (ifany) will be subject to prior
    review by the Bank.

2. ConsultingServices

     (a) List of Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international firms.

Table2. Summaryof ConsultingAssignments with short-listof internationalfirms




     (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO for firms andthe first
         contract for hiring consulting firm for each selection method regardless o f
         value, US$50,000 for individuals per contract, and all Single Source Selection
         o f consultants (firms and individuals) will be subject to prior review by the
         Bank;

         Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: short lists of consultants
         for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may
         be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions
         o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines;

DetailedProcurementPlan-SUFORDAdditionalFinancing

1.    General

           Project information:


           0   CountryRecipient: Lao PDR

           0   Project Implementing Agency:
               i.NationalProjectManagementOffice(NPMO)intheDepartmentof
               Forestry; and
               ii.ProvincialAgricultureandForestryOffice(PAFO)innineprovinces

           Bank's approval Date o fthe procurement Plan


           0   Original Plan: November 10,2008

           Date o f GeneralProcurement Notice:

           0   December, 2008 (UNDB online, dgMarket)



                                          28

      (d)     Periodcoveredbythis procurement plan:


              0     The projectperiod.

  2.       Goods andWorks andConsultingServices.

      (a) Prior ReviewThreshold: ProcurementDecisions subject to Prior Review by
           IDA as stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines for Procurement:

Table3. Prior Review Thresholdsfor CivilWorks andGoods




    NCB (Goods)                    30 - 100                        The   first NCB     by   each
                                                                   implementing agency in each
                                                                   year
    Shopping (Goods)                 <3 0                          The first shopping contract by
                                                                   each implementing agency in
                                                                   each year
    Direct Contracting                              All contracts
    (Goods andWorks )
    ICB (Works)                     >=300               300

    NCB (Works)                     30-300                         The   first NCB     by   each
                                                                   implementing agency in each
                                                                   year
    Shopping(Works)                  <30                           The first shopping contract by
                                                                  Ieach implementing agency in
                                                                   eachvear


      0    The first contract for goods and works procured through Community Participation
           method under Village Development sub-project grant o f each province in each
           year.

      (b) Prequalification. Not expected.

      (c) Reference to (if any) Village Development Manual: will be finalized before
          project effectiveness.

      (d) Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements:                procurement will be
           advanced as much as possible.

      (e) Procurement Packages for Works & Goods (prior & post reviews) with methods
           andtime schedule

Table4. DetailedProcurementPlanfor CivilWorks andGoods

   1              2             3         4      I   5         6         7     I     8       I     9

IRef.         Contract      Estimated Procurement   PQ     Domestic   Review      Expected    Coniment
  No.      (Description)     Cost USD   Method    (yesino) Preference by Bank   BidiQuotation
                                                            (yesfno)  (Prior I    Opening
I                                                                      Post)        Date
 Civil I wks
         DOF andNPMO         129,000                No        No       Prior      Feb 2009    FirstNCB
         Office                                                                               contract
                                                                               I
         Renovation                                                                           for Work
         Attapeu District     69,000                No        No       Prior      Mar 2009    FirstNCB
         Offices, 3                                                                           contract
         Building                                                                             for Work
         Constructionand                                                                      ofAttapeu
         3 Office                                                                             Province
         Renovation
         Vientiane        --  84,000                No        No       Prior     Mar 2009     FirstNCB
         District Offices,                                                                    contract
         5 Building                                                                           for Work
         Constructionand    --I----                                                           of
         1Office                                                                              Vientiane
         Renovation                                                                           Province
         Bolikhamxay          54,000                No        No       Prior      Apr 2009    First NCB
         District Offices,                                                                    contract
         3 Building                                                                           for Work
         Constructionand                                                                      of
         1Office                                                                              Bolkham
         Renovation                                                                           xaY
                                                                                              Province
          SekongDistrict      46,000     NCB        No        No       Prior      Apr 2009    FirstNCB
         Offices, 2                                                  1                        contract
         Building                                                                             for Work
         Constructionand                                                                      of Sekong
         2 Office                                                                             Province
         Renovation
         Sayaboury            69,000     NCB        No        No                              FirstNCB
         District Offices,                                                                    contract
         3 Building                                                                           for Work
         Constructionand                                                                      of
         3 Office                                                                             Sayaboury
         Renovation                                                                           Province
         I TInfra for         10,000   Shopping     No        No                              First
         NPMO                                                                                 Shopping
                                                                                              for Work
                                                                                              ofNPMO
         ITInfra for DOF      50,000     NCB        No        No       Post       May 2009

         I T Infrafor         1,000    Shopping     No        No                              First
         Attapeu                                                                              Shopping
                                                                                              for work
                                                                                              ofAttapeu

                                                                               I              Province
         I T Infra for                              No        No       Prior   I  Jun2009     First



                                                 30

                                                              8

                                                           Expected
                                                         BidiQuotation
                                                           Opening
                                                             Date
   Vientiane                                                          Shopping
                                                                      for work
                        x                                             of
                                                                      Vientiane

11 I TInfra for    1,000     Shopping       No    Prior    Jun2009
   Bolikhaqmxay                                                       Shopping
                                                                      for work
                                                                      of
                                                                      Bolikham
                                                                      xay
12 IT Infrafor     1,000     Shopping  No   N o   Prior    Jun2009    First
   Sekong                                                             Shopping
                                                                      for work
                                                                      of Sekong
                                                                      Province
13                           Shopping       No    Prior    Jun2009    First
   Sayaboury                                                          Shopping
                                                                      for work
                                                                      of
                                                                      Sayaboury
                                                                      Pprovince
                            ~

  1 1              2             3     I   4     I s 1    6            7          8      1      9
 Ref,        Contract        Estimated  Procure-  P-Q Domestic     Review by   Expected   Comments
 NO.       @escription)      Cost (S'm)  ment         Preference  IDA (Prior/ Bid-Opening
                                        Method         (yes/ no)     Post)       Date

I
l 1     Pick-up 4 x 4 double  644,000     ICB     No                 Prior     Feb 2009
        cab 28 units                                            I
                                                         Yes
  2     Computer, Office      411,060     ICB     No     Yes         Prior     Feb 2009
        Equipment,IT
        accessories&
        Network Server
        packages
l 3     Pick-up 4 x 4 double  621,000     ICB     No     Yes         Prior     Jan 2010
        cab 27 units

  4     Forestry Equipment      64,900   NCB      No     No          Post      Apr 2009    FirstNCB
                                                                                           for NPMO
                                                                                             inYear
                                                                                              2009

        Offroad               130,000     ICB     No     Yes         Prior     Mar 2009
        Motorcycles 125 cc
        40 units &
        Motorcycles 110 cc
        55 units                                  -
        Offroad                 64,000   NCB      No     No          Prior     Feb 2010    FirstNCB
        Motorcycles 125 cc                                                                 for NPMO
        40 units                                                                             inYear
                                                                                              2010
I 7    1Satellite Imagery     200,000    Direct   No     No          Prior     Apr 2009       * The
                                        Contracti                                         purchaseof
                                         ng *                                               satellite
                                                                                            imagery
                                                                                             from a
                                                                                           particular
                                                                                           contractor
                                                                                              under
                                                                 I                           Direct
                                                                                          Contracting
                                                                                           method is
                                                                                            subject to
                                                                                          provision of
                                                                                            adequate
                                                                                          justification
                                                                                           and IDA'S
                                                                                              prior
                                                      T
                                                  -                                       concurrence

        Office accessories      14,000  Shopping  No                 Prior    Feb2009.        First
                                                                                            Shopping
                                                                                           for NPMO
                                                                                            inYear




                                                  32

          Contract
        (Description)
                                           Method


9  I Softwarepackages     I     17,000  I  ShoppingI N o        No      I      Post     I Feb,2009

10 I Radio System         I      5,000  I  ShoppingI N o        No             Post       Mar 2009

__
11   Furniturefor DOFI          68,000                          No             Post      Apr 2009
     & 5 ProjectOffices
     inVientiane,
     Attapeu,
     Bolikhamxay,
     Sekong, Sayaboury
__
12   DOFIUniform                 9,694     Shopping  No         N O            Post       Mar 2009
                                          ~




      3.       Selectionof Consultants

          (a) PriorReviewThreshold:Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as
               stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment o f Consultants:

      Table5. PriorReview Thresholdsfor ConsultingAssignments

                    Selection Method            Contract Value       Prior Review          Comments
                                               Threshold (S'OOO)   Threshold ($'OOO)
      1.     Competitive Methods (Finns) -          >loo                  >loo            All contracts
             Quality & Cost Based Selection
             (QCBS)
      2.     Competitive Methods (Firms) -          <=loo           The first contract
             Least-Cost Selection (LCS) and
             Selection Based on Consultant
             Qualifications (CQS)

                                                                   regardless o f value
      3.     Single Source (Firms)                                   All contracts

      4.     Individual Consultants                                >$50 and all sole-
                                                                    source selection

          (b) Short List Comprising Entirely of National Consultants: no short lists o f
               consultants for services are expected to comprise entirely o f national consultants
               in accordance with the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
              However, if a need arises duringthe project implementation and ifit i s warranted,
               short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000
               equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o fnational consultants.



                                                    33

(c) Any Other SpecialSelectionArrangements: procurement will be advanced as
    much as possible.

(d) Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods (prior & post reviews) and
    Time Schedule

Table6. ConsultancyAssignmentswith SelectionMethods(prior andpost
review) andtime schedule

    z                  2            I    3         4           5   I     5             7

  Ref.   Descriptionof               Estimated Selection   Review   Expected   Caniment
  No.    Assignment                  Cost US$  Method       by Bank Proposals
                                                           (Priori  Submission
                                                          ! Post)   Date

    1         An International        75,000    Selection    Prior    Dec 2008    Required
           Procurement Consultant                  of                          IDA's review
            for Capacity Building              Individual                       due to cost
                                               Consultants                      above US$
                                                  by                               50,000
                                               comparing                        Ifrecruited
                                                at least                       under Finnish
                                                 three                         TA grant, IDA
                                               candidates                       prior review
                                                                                   o f TOR
    2     Forest Management audit     72,000    Selection    Prior   Sept 2009  Firstcontract
           certificatiodverification           Basedon                            for hiring
                                               Consultant                       Consulting
                                               Qualificati                      fmbyCQS
                                               on (CQS)                            method
    3          Financial Audit        100,000  Least-Cost    Prior    Apr 2009  First contract
                                                Selection                        for hiring
                                                method                          Consulting
                                                 (LCS)                          fmbyLCS
                                                                                   method
                                      100,000  Selection     Prior  . Apr2009     Required
            management advisor                     o f                         IDA's review
                                               Individual                       due to cost
                                               Consultants                      above US$
                                                  by                               50,000
                                               comparing
                                                at least
                                                 three
                                               candidates




                                        34


a
8    d

e,
3
3O 2
  - 0




       a2


                                Annex 5: Country at a Glance
                     Sustainable Forestry for RuralDevelopment Project

                          Lao PDRat 8 rrfance                                                          9m.w

                                                      Ew-t
                                             Lao    Aam8
                                            PUR     PItclRC




                                              m
                                              6@
                                             1I S      510
                                             173        111
                                             1air       109


                                            ?W?       200.8
                                              17        3A
                                                       32 5
                                             13.9      3G,0
                                                       26 2
                                             15.4      19 3
                                            -10 5     -1s 4
                                              13.4      2 2
                                            132.8      87 7
                                              5.5      63.4
                                                       684
                                                      l859

                                 f887-07    2W6       20@3

                             ti?
                             9 7                        57.1
                                                           3
                                    1


STRUCTURE of tlie ECONOMY
                                    1987    1997      2006     ZOO?

                                             52.8      42.0
                                                       32 5
                                                       30 9
                                                       155
                                    69 4               645
                                     8 3                9 3
                                    14 0     41.3      42.3

                                 '1987-97 Et9747      2006    zoo3   Gnowttpof expwt5 and imports l"it     I
                                     9 8      36        2.0
                                    13.8     11.3      116.5
                                    15 0      9.7       Y.2
                                     5 7      6.4       6.8
                                              2 9      4.6
                                              9.7      17.9
                                             13.8       7.3
                                              9 8       9.6




                                                  39


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 36567

 100                                       102                                  104                                                            100            105                    110

                                                                                                                                                                                   CHINA
                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                      LAO
                                                                                                                              MYANMAR                 PEOPLE'S             Gulf               20
                                                                                                                                                   DEM. REP.                  of
                                                                                                                                               Vientiane                  Tonkin

22                                                                                                      22
                                          1A

                                                                                                                                                THAILAND
                                             19 Phongsaly                         VIETNAM                        15
                                                                                                                  Andaman                                                                     15
                                                PHONGSALY                                                                                                                         VIETNAM
                                             1B
MYANMAR                                                                                                                  Sea                              CAMBODIA
                                                         2E
                      17                                                                                                                                                                        21
                        Luang
                      Namtha                                                                                                                      Gulf
                                                                                                                 10
                       LUANG         Muang                                                                                                         of
             BOKEO    NAMTHA            Sai                                         Sam
                                                13N                                                                                             Thailand
   Mekong                                                                          Neua
                   3
              Ban                 OUDOMSAI                                                                                              100                 105                      110
                                                                                              6
              Huaisai             2W                              1C
      Chiang                                           LUANG
         Kong                                         PRABANG                        HOUAPHAN                                                  106               This map was produced by
20                       Pak Beng                                                                                                                                the Map Design Unit of The
                                      Mekong                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                          4B       Luang                                                                                                          colors, denominations and
                     SAYABOURY                     Prabang     XIANG                                                                                              any other information shown
                                                             KHOANG                                                                                               on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                   4A                                   7
                                                              Xiang                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the
                            Sayaboury                                                                                                                             legal status of any territory,
                                                            Khoang                                                                                                or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                  a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                    13N    Nongpet Naxang                                                                                         boundaries.
  THAILAND                                                                       Phoupaxang
                                            Vang Vieng               5                       Phakbouak
                                            VIENTIANE
     Phouphadam                                              Xisomboun
                                                            XAISOMBOUN            1D                                                                                 GULF
                                  4
                                                Pone                                 BOLIKHAMSAI
                                Mekong                                       Paksane
                                                Hong       Nam Ngum                                                                                                     OF
                                                            Reservoir               Namkading
                                                         10

         Phou Youy                           11                                     Mekong13S         8                                                           TONKIN
18                        Sanakham                               Thanaleng                                                                                                                   18
                                            VIENTIANE       A12                                    Ban
                                                               PREFECTURE OF                     Nongsu    1E

                     Kenethao                                  VIENTIANE                              KHAMMOUANE                                Dong Phousoi

                                                                                                      Thakhek               12

                                                                                                                                                      Dong Khating/Nongkapat



               LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                      1F

              SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY FOR                                                                                                                          Dong
                                                                                                     9A
                                                                                                 Keng                                                         Kapho
                                                                                                           Seno             9
                     RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                          Kabao

                                                                                         Savannakhet   9B  Ban              SAVANNAKHET
                                                                                                            Laksamsipha
                                     PROJECT                                                                                                                                         Phou
                                                                                                                                                                                     Talava
                                                                                                                                                  1G
                                                                                                                                                            15
16                                                                                                                                                                                           16
                     NEW SITES                                    AIRPORTS                     Dong
                                                                                             Sithouane                                 SALAVANE
                     EXISTING SITES                               SELECTED TOWNS                                                                          Salavane                   Houay-Pen
                                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                            Lao
                                                                  PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
                     PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS                                                                   Ngam                                         1H    Sekong
                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITALS
                     HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                    20                    SEKONG
                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                           Banbengvilay
                     OTHER ROADS                                                                                             16                          16B
                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           Xilivang  Champassak                                       1I
                     BORDER CROSSINGS                                                                                                            CHAMPASSAK
                                                                                                                                                                  Attapeu
                                                                                                     Nampa-Houyi
                                                                                                                                                                                18B
                                                                                                                                                       18A    ATTAPEU

                                                                                                                                        Mekong13S               1J

             0     50      100       150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                             Khong                      Phatumphon

14          0    25       50       75      100 Miles                                                                                                                                         14
                                                                                                    CAMBODIA
                                             102                                  104                                                         106

                                                                                                                                                                                    OCTOBER 2008

