Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL lSE ONLY
Report No. 9242
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1848-MOR)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restri,ted distribution and mav be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
Appraisal year, average        US$1 - DH 3.8
Implementation, average        US$1 = DH 7.6
Completion year, average       US$1 = DH 8.5
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL              Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CT                Work Center
DEFCS             Department of Forestry and Soil Conservation
DPAE              Directorate for Planning and Economic Affairs
DPA               Provincial Department of Agriculture
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP            FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
MARA              Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MTASAP            Medium Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
PCR               Project Completion Report
SAP               Special Action Program
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S A
Office ni OifedorC4wal
Opoatxm Evaluatwon
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Morocco
Loukkos Rural Development Project (Loan 1848-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Complet ion Report on Morocco - Loukkos Rural Development Project (Loan
1848-MOR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.   This
project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1848-MOR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .      ...........................................................    i
Evaluation Summary  ................................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity  ..............................................    1
B.  Projet Background  .............................................    1
Place of Agriculture in the Economy during the 1970s .... .....    1
Main issues in the Agricultural Sector in the 1970s .... ......    1
Evolution of Government and Bank Strategy in the Agricultural
Sector   .......................................................     2
Macro-Economic Fravework during Project Implementation .......    2
C.  Project Objectives and Description .............................    3
Project Objectives  ..........................................    3
Project Description ...................,                             3
D. Project Design and Organization.                                         4
Project Processing.                                                  4
Project Organization.                                                5
Problems with Project Design and Organization.                       5
E. Project Implementation.                                                  6
Implementation Schedule and Project Financing.                       6
Detailed Implementation of the Components.                           7
F. Project Results .il
Crop Development                        .l
Livestock Development .12
Re-evaluation of Economic Rate of Return .12
G. Project Sustainability .13
H. Bank Performance .13
I. Borrower Performance .13
J. Project Relationship .14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
K.  Consulting Services  ...........................................    14
L.  Project Documentation and Data  .............. .................   14
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Confirmation of Factual Data Contained in Paras I and III -
Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I .15
B.  Evaluation and Summary of Bank Actions .16
C.  Evaluation of Moroccan Government Actions .17
D.  Relations between the Bank and the Moroccan Government .17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans  ...........................................         19
2. Project Timetables .21
3. Loan Disbursements .22
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .22
B. Planned and Actual Disbursements by Category .23
4.  Project Implementation: Project Implementation Ratios  . .24
A. Infrastructure and Equipment .24
B. Forestry and Erosion Control .25
C. Input Distribution .26
5. Project Costs and Financing           ..27
A. Project Costs .27
B. Project Financing .27
6. Project Results    ..28
A. Appraisal Estimates of ERR .28
B.  Underlying Assumptions for Appraisal Estimates ..........    28
C.  Comments   ............... ...............................    28
7. Status of Covenants .29
8. Use of Bank Resources                . . .31
A. Staff Inputs per Supervision .31
B. Mission .32



Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex  1    Land Use  in Project Area  .................................                                 34
Annex  2    Projected  and Actual  Agricultural  Production   ....                          ........     36
Annex  3    Crop Yields  ..............................................                                  38
Annex 4    Livestock  Population and Yields  ..........................                                  39



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDON OF MOROCCO
LOURKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
(LOAN 1848-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Loukkos Rural
Development Project in Morocco, for which Loan 1848-MOR in the amount of US$34.0
million was approved on May 20, 1980. The loan was closed on December 31, 1988,
eighteen months behind schedule. US$10.0 million was cancelled from the loan
in November 1984, and another US$6.0 million was cancelled in 1986. The last
disbursement was on July 27, 1989, total disbursements amount to US$14.4 million
or 80% of the revised loan amount, and US$3.6 million was cancelled at project's
completion.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division
of the Europe, MidCie East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Suiumary, Parts I a.id III), and the Borrover (Part II), with some input from the
FAO/CP (see below).  Part II consists mostly of the Borrower's comments on
Parts I and II.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in November 1988, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
In addition an independent FAO/CP mission constituted by one economist was sent
in April 1989 to Morocco to assist with the economic reevaluation of the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1848-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Background
1.    The Loukkos Rural Development Project was the second of a series of four
rural development projects appraised during the late 1970s and early 1980s, at
a turning point in terms of both Government strategy and Bank involvement in
the Moroccan agricultural sector. In the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s
Goverrnment agricultural policy was strongly biased in favor of the large scale
irrigated sector. As a result Moroccan agriculture had a dual structure with
the intensive irrigated sector producing high value commodities and export
crops on 10% of the land, while the rainfed sector accounted for the bulk of
basic food supply and supported the majority of the rural population, but
showed no long run productivity increases. Income distribution became
increasingly unequal as agricultural income in irrigated areas rose while
poverty increased in rainfed areas, predominantly in mountain, forest and arid
areas. Bank investment in Moroccan agriculture was also concentrated in large
scale irrigation and credit until the mid 1970s. In the early 1980s
Government recognized the need for a more balanced development of the
agricultural sector. At the same time, the Bank shifted emphasis to rainfed
development and poverty alleviation with the series of four rural development
projects which were developed to test options and to stimulate growth in
various environmcnts representative of Morocco's rainfed area. The Loukkos
project was specifically designed to address the development issues of the
densely populated but poorly endowed and h'ghly eroded mountain regions of the
north of Morocco'4. During project implementation the Bank became more and
more involved in policy issues and helped Government devise a medium term
adjustment program to tackle the structural and policy-related problems of
Morroccan agriculture. This program started to be implemented in the framework
of two subsequent agricultural sector adjustment loans (ASAL I FY85 and ASAL
II FY88).
1 The three other rural development projects were the Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project approved in FY78 and closed 06/30/90, the Middle Atlas
Agricultural Development Project approved in FY82 and closing 12/30/90 and the
Oulmes Rommani Agricultural Development Project approved in FY83 and closing
07/01/91.



- iv -
2.    The project was implemented during a period of severe crisis followed by
austerity and far-reaching macroeconomic adjustment. After the 1983 budget
crisis Morocco embarked on a stabilization and adjustment program dith drastic
reductions in public investment which hindered the implementation of
investment projects because of continuous underfunding.
ObJectives
3.    The overall objective of the project was to transform the ecologically
destructive agricultural system prevailing in the Loukkos watershed into a
sustainable system by reducing soil erosion thereby increasing agricultural
productivity and incomes of poor farmers. The secondary objective was to gain
experience and serve as a model for wider replication elsewhere in the Rif
region.
4.    The project actions were concentrated in three sub-areas of the
watershed representative of the various types of conditions and development
potential found in the Rif Mountains: the Middle Loukkos, 31,000 ha, with
moderate agricultural potential, the Upper Loukkos, 15,000 ha, with steeper
slopes and serious erosion problems and suitable for forage and tree crap with
limited annual crop potential, and the Izarène forest.
5.    The project actions included (i) forest plantations establishment and
maintenance and forestry research in the Izarène forest, (ii) erosion control
works in the Upper Loukkos, (iii) crop and livestock production development in
the Upper and Middle Loukkos, (iv) roads and social infrastructure throughout
the project area, and (v) as part of a national program, a cadastral suivey, a
critical review of the Agricultural Investment Code, and technical assistance
for introducing a sector wide monitoring and evaluation capacity within MARA.
Crop and livestock development aimed at reducing soil erosion resulting from
ill-adapted land use and cultural practices and improving farm profitabîlity
through increased production and productivity. It included (i) extension of
the vegetative cover through fruit trees, forage bushes, permanent pasture and
forage crops establishment, (ii) development of small scale irrigation for
growing of vegetables, (iii) introduction of sugarbeet, and (iv) improved
agricultural services comprising extension, input and credit supply, and
specialized livestock services.
ImDlementation Exoerience
6.    In spite of a slow start-up during the first three years and continuous
financial difficulties from 1983 onwards, the project was successful in
meeting most of the physical targets of the core program, developing an
efficient extension system, improving planning of erosion control
interventions, and promoting the participation of local population to



these interventions. This was achieved owing mostly to (i) a competent,
committed and dynamic local project team at both management and implementation
levels, (ii) excellent relationships between Bank and MARA and Project staff,
and (iii) continuous Bank and Project management lobbying to the Ministry of
Finance to preserve a reasonable level of financing.  However, the project was
less effective in developing an adequate monitoring and evaluation system.
7.    The initial delays resulted mainly from a longer tha.n expected
"gestation" period to (i) provide the necessary infrastructure and staff for
the new Chefchaouen Province Directorate for Agriculture in charge of project
implementation, (ii) develop the proper organization for project management
and implementation in a truly integrated fashion and (iii) secure the
participation of the local population. As of 1983, the project was constantly
underfunded because of the budget shortages, and had to be restructured in
1987. Non-essential components (roads, education and cadastral survey) were
curtailed and the project scope vas reduced to a core program.
ResuU£s
8.    Most of the c intified targets assigned to the project after the 1987
project restructurlng were achieved, including infrastructure establishment,
erosion control works, forestry plantations, and input distribution. The
project, along with other Bank rural development projects, was successful in
testing and developing an efficient extension svstem based on an adapted
Training and Visit system, which will be replicated at the national level
under the recently effective Agricultural Research and Extension Project
<Ln 3036). It also helped develop a methodology for a sound planning of
erosion control interventions at the watershed level.
9.    After initial difficulties, the project was successful in imDroving
farmers involvement in erosion control activities not only on private lands
but also on collective lands by developing collective management systems for
collective resources such as permanent pastures and forage tree plantations.
This is all the more important as a major objective of the project was to
develop organizational arrangements to encourage farmers' participation in
order to secure the commitment of beneficiaries to the investment program and
to reduce the financial burden on Government's budget.
10.   In spite of repeated efforts during the course of the project, including
additional technical assistance and training, the project had limited success
in developing an operational monitoring and evaluation system mainly due to
the lack of interest of project management. While the monitoring of financial
progress and physical realizations has been satisfactory, firm data are
lacking to assess the project's impact on erosion and agricultural incomes.
An FAO/CP independent mission constituted by one economist vas fielded to
assist with the reevaluation of the economic rate of return (ERR). The FAO/CP
reevaluation resulted in much higher ERRs than estimated at appraisal, which are



- vi -
believed to be largely overestimates.   Firn  data are lacking but initial
calculations indicate that the ERR would be at least equal to the appraisal
estimate.   Ongoing studies will yield more information vithin the next two
years to assess more accurately the ERR of the project (see "(c) Commerts" in
Table 6, page 27).
Sustainabil itv
11.   As mentioned in para. 6 of Part I, the agricultural development under
the project was achieved by heavy reliance upon government services,
particularly extension. The benefits realized will be sustained in the medium
term through financing of the existing extension structure by the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project. Moreover plantations established under the
forestry component would be maintained through the Second Forestry Development
Project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.   The major lessons to be learned pertain to proiect organization and
farmers' participation.
13.   The lack of coordination between Ministries and between the various
Directorates of MARA is a recurring problem in Morocco. For projects
involving different Ministries and/or Directorates of MARA, project
organization should be carefully designed to allow for multisectoral budget
allocations and to ensure a true integration of activities, knowing that
coordinating committees do not guîrantee success.
14. With resoect to farmers' Larticipation, the project demonstrated that
(a) land tenure is the key issue; (b) the Ministry of Interior is a key player
along with the technical ministries; and (c) time is of essence. Because
state intervenitions for erosion control are perceived by local populations as
a threat to the land tenure status quo, they can trigger violent opposition
from the local populations. This opposition could have been better and faster
overcome if the Ministry of Interior had been more closely involved with the
project and had played a more active role. In the usual eime framework for
the implementation of Bank investment projects, five to six years, one cannot
hope to speed up considerably the slow process of adjustment of the local
populations. For this project, however, the situation improved considerably
over the project period since it evolved from minimal farmer participation
during the first half of the project implementation period to a situation
where, after almost ten years, farmers now undertake erosion control
activities spontaneously on their own lands and have established, with the
assistance of the extension service, user groups responsible for collective
resources management including maintenance and cost recovery.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDON OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(!OAN 1848-Y!OR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name                    :     Loukkos Rural Development Project
Loan Number             :     1848 - MOR
RVP Unit                :     EMENA Region
Country                       Morocco
Sector                  :    Agriculture
B.    Project Background
1.    Place of Agriculture in the Economy During the 1970s:  During the 1970s
the relative importance of agriculture in Morocco's economy in terms of
production, export and employment declined as other sectors grew more rapidly.
Following a period of expansion in the 1960s, when agriculture grew at more than
3% p.a. and accounted for 25% of GDP growth, agricultural output grew at an
average rate of less than 2% p.a. during the 1970s.  Agriculture contributed
about 17% of GDP during 1973-77 compared to 22% durlng 1968-72 and agricultural
exports accounted for 36% of total exports during 1973-77 falling from about 59%
of total exports during 1969-73.  By the end of the 1970s about 40% of the lbor
force was employed in agriculture against 60% in the mid 1960s.   Population
growth averaged 2.8%; 4.8% in the urban areas, 1.8% in the rural areas,
indicating heavy rural-urban migration. As a result food production could not
keep up with the increased demand caused by urbanization and by income and
population growth leading to a continued widening of the food gap. Food imports
increased by an average 10% p.a. in quantity and 21% p.a. in value (current
prices) from 1970 to 1977. The agricultural trade balar.ce swung from substantial
surpluses in the early 1970s to major deficits in the latter years (US$ 150 to
200 million per year) after Morocco turned into a net food importer in 1974.
2.    Main Issues in the Agricultural Sector:  The disappointing performance of
the agricultural sector stemmed from structural and policy related constraints.
The major structural constraints related to inappropriate land tenure and to the
fragility of the natural resource base threatened by erosion and population
pressure.    The major policy  related constraints  included  (i)  heavy but
inefficient Government involvement in agricultural prices and incentives and (ii)
inadequate support services for agricultural marketing, input supply, credit,
research and ext^nsion.



-2-
3.    An important outcome of these deficiencies was the strong bias in favor
of the large scale irrigated sector and corresponding productions (industrial
crops, citrus, vegetables...) in terms of Government investment, support
services,  prices and incentives,  and institutional environment.   In fact,
Moroccan agriculture had a dual structure with (i) the intensive irrigated sector
which showed good progress in productivity in high value commodities and
accounted for less than 10% of cultivated area but about 45% of agricultural
value added and 65% of agricultural exports, and the rainfed sector which
accounted for the bulk of the country's basic food supply (cereals, pulses, red
meat) and supported the majority of the rural population (about 75%) but showed
no long run productivity increase.
4.    Poverty:  This resulted increasingly in unequal distribution of income in
the agricultural sector. It was estimated that about 45% of Moroccan farm
families lived at or below the rural absolute poverty level (estimated at 200$
per capita). While agricultural income in the irrigation command areas and in
the high rainfall areas had increased, there were rainfed zones of poverty,
predominantly in mountain, forest, and arid areas where living conditions were
deteriorating.
5.    Evolution of Government and Bank Strategy in the Agricultural Sector:  The
Project was implemented over 1981-89, a turning point in terms of both Government
strategy and Bank 'nvolvement in the Moroccan agricultural sector. Until the
end of the 1970s Government policy favored the large-scale irrigated sector as
described above. Bank involvement reflected GOM preferences since from 1965 to
1977, except for one rural development project which performed poorly, the Bank
agricultural portfolio only included large-scale irrigation investment (6
projects) and credit projects (4 projects).   In the early 1980s Government
recognized the need for a more balanced development of the agricultural sector
giving more importance to the modernization of rainfed agriculture for economic
as well as social reasons. In parallel, Bank sector work concluded that more
effort should be made in rainfed areas and Bank involvement shifted to rainfed
development and poverty alleviation with a series of four rural development
projects (Fes Karia Tissa FY78, Loukkos FY80, Middle Atlas FY82, Oulmes-Rommani
FY83).   These four projects were designed to develop and test options for
stimulating  growth  and  increasing  production  in  various  environments
representative of Morocco's rainfed areas. However, Government had yet to define
a comprehensive strategy to tackle the structural and policy-related problems
of the Moroccan agricultural sector, in particular rationalizing the prices and
incentives framework and addressing the land issue. Such strategy was devised
in the second half of the 1980s with Bank assistance by drawing up a Medium Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP).   The implementation of the
MTASAP was supported through two subsequent sector adjustment loans (ASAL I,
FY85-88 and ASAL II FY 88-on going).
6.    Macro-economie Framework during Prolect ImDlementation:  The project was
implemented during a period of severe crisis followed by austerity and far-
reaching macroeconomic adjustment. In the second half of the 1970s and after



-3
nearly two decades of conservative economic management and fiscal policies,
Morocco embarked on an expansionary fiscal policy to finance rising defense
expenditures and an ambitious public investment program. As a result of this
expansionary fiscal policy and external shocks, Morocco's external debt grev
exponentially from US$ 1.8 billion in 1975 to US$ 13.9 billion in 1983, at which
point it represented nearly 120% of GDP and 350% of foreign exchange earnings.
In early 1983 the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net foreign assets
declined sharply, prompting the Government to impose emergency restrictions and
massively curtail public expenditures. A set of extensive stabilization and
adjustment policies were drawn up by the Government and supported by a series
of three IMF standby arrangements (1983-88) and Bank structural adjustment loans
(Industrial Trade and Policy Loans 1984 and 1986, ASAL I and II, Education Sector
Reform Loan 1986, Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan 1987, Structural
Adjustment Loan 1989).  Substantial improvements were achieved through these
operations, but at the cost of drastic reduction in public investment affecting
most investment projects including Bank supported project like the Loukkos
project.
C.    Prolect Objectives and Description
7.    Project Objectives: The overall objective of the project was to transform
the ecologically destructive agricultural system prevailing in the Loukkos
watershed into a sustainable system by decreasing soil erosion and increasing
agricultural productivity and incomes of poor farmers. As the Loukkos project
was the first Bank supported project in Morocco to specifically address the
development issues of the extensive, densely populated but poorly endowed
mountain regions, the secondary objective was to gain experience in these issues
and serve as a model for wider replication elsewhere in the Rif region. Before
the project start, Government had already devoted large financial resources for
erosion control operations in mountain areas, particularly in the framework of
the DERRO' project with FAO/UNDP technical assistance.   The Loukkos project
aimed at improving the organizational strategy of these previous operations,
modifying the top-down approach and encouraging a grass-roots approach which
would reduce the budgetary cost, thereby increasing replicability.
8.    Prolect Description:  The Loukkos Rural Development Project actions were
concentrated in three sub-areas of the watershed, the Middle Loukkos or Zaz
Valley (31,000 ha, moderate agriculture potential ), the Upper Loukkos (15,000
ha, steeper slopes with serious erosion problem-, suitable for forage and tree
crops with limited annual crop potential), and the Izarene Forest. The three
sub-project areas were selected because they were representative of the various
types of conditions and development potential that could be found throughout the
two million hectares of the Rif Mountains.
Western Rif Development Project (Projet de Développement du Rif
Occidental).



- 4 -
(a)   In the Middle Loukkos, the project was to finance: the development
of field crops including the establishment of 1000 ha of sugar beet;
cattle development on 2,300 ha of communal grazing lands;
introduction of contour farming; improvement of simple gravity
irrigation and construction of tertiary roads and access roads.
(b)   In the Upper Loukkos, the project was to finance the planting of
firewood and forage tree crops (mainly acacia) on seriously eroded
lands; planting of contour strips of pasture and permanent pasture
on recently abandoned land (300 ha); construction of stone terraces
and gully erosion control dams; planting of fruit trees; field crop
development; development of dairy goats; improvement of simple
gravity irrigation and construction of farm access roads and tracks.
(c)   In the Izarene Forest the project was to finance pine plantations
on 3,500 ha, and maintenance of 3,400 ha of existing plantations.
(d)   Throughout  the proiect area,  the project was  to  finance  the
construction of classrooms in primary schools, improvement of
dispensaries, village water supplies and markets, road maintenance
equipment, technical assistance and training.
(e)   As a part of a national Drozram, the project was also to finance a
(i) a Cadastral Survey including aerial photography and ground
survey on about 500,000 ha, (ii) technical assistance for a critical
review of the Agricultural Investment Code 10 years after its
introduction, and (iii) technical assistance for introducing a
sector wide Project Monitoring and Evaluatic,n capacity within MARA's
Directorate for Planning and Economic Affairs.
D.    Project Design and Organization
9.    Proiect Processing:  Project identification and preparation was lengthy
and difficult.  The Loukkos area was first envisaged in 1973 for a possible
irrigation/rainfed development project, then identified by an FAO/CP Livestock
reconnaissance mission for an integrated rural development project in 1974. An
FAO/UNDP Project (FAO/UNDP MOR 71,/536 SF) was implemented in the Loukkos
watershed to prepare a Watershed Master Plan and test the recommended operations
in pilot areas from 1973 to 1977 (after a two year extension). In spite of this
FAO/UNDP Project, the first FAO/CP identification mission recommended in 1975
to postpone the project because of uncertain commitment from the Government, and
insufficient information on the erosion control techniques and the sociological
aspects.   After numerous discussions between Government, Bank, FAO/CP, and
FAO/UNDP, a team comprising nationals and expatriates from the UNDP/FAO Project
was assembled to prepare the Bank Project over about a year in 1978, with the
assistance of the FAO/CP "bus-stopping" on a month.y basis. Only in June 1979
did the Bank receive the final preparation report and the official request from



- 5 -
the Government. Further processing progressed more rapidly (pre-appraisal and
appraisal in 1979) but effectiveness was delayed by 6 months. The project was
supervised about twice a year.   A thorough mid-term review of three rural
development projects was carried out in 1985: Fes Karia Tissa, Middle Atlas,
and Loukkos. This review attempted to draw lessons from project implementation
for the design of a rainfed strategy.
10.   Project Organization:   Primary responsibility for the overall execution
of the Project was vested with MARA, its Forestry Directorate being responsible
for coordinating the inputs of the other directorates involved. At the regional
level the project was executed through the administration of the Province of
Chefchaouen, particularly the Province Directorate for Agriculture (DPA), and
the local offices of CNCA,  the Agricultural Credit Bank.   The Provincial
Director of Agriculture in Chefchaouen was the Project Director. Two Committees
were set up to ensure coordination, a national committee and a provincial
committee. Agricultural activities including extension and erosion control works
were designed and executed by two work centers (CTs), the Asjène CT for the
Middle Loukkos and the Mokrisset CT for the Upper Loukkos, under DPA
supervision. To improve input distribution in the project area, the CTs also
included farm supply centers distributing seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, tools
and other supplies.
11.   Problems with project design and organ4zation:  In spite of the lengthy
identification and preparation process, project design and organization had to
be improved upon in the course of implementation as numerous technical and
organizational problems were encountered with coordination of activities,
forestry operations, collective pasture improvement and other livestock
activities, research and extension, and monitoring and evaluation.
12.   The lack of coordination and integration of activities hampered project
implementation for the first half of project life and resulted in a disruptive
approach to farmers.   Coordination proved particularly difficult since the
project required (a) coordination between different Ministries (Agriculture,
Health, Education, and Equipment), with simultaneous budget allocations from
these Ministries and (b) a true integration of activities between different
Directorates of MARA at the central level (Agricultural Production, Livestock,
Forestry, Extension, Planning and Economic Affairs, Research) and their
corresponding agricultural services at the provincial level within the
Chefchaouen DPA.   The coordination difficulties normally encountered in the
Moroccan institutional context were compounded by the fact that, possibly
because of the lengthy preparation phase, both Bank and Government staff tended
to lose sight of the overall objectives. As the SAR failed to provide a
comprehensive strategy to link the various project components, project staff
focussed on the achievement of separate physical targets more than on the
overall project objectives. A strategic perspective was particularly lacking
for the various undertakings under the livestock component, as the mid-term
review report emphasized.   Regular meetings of the coordinating committees
throughout project life failed to ensure true coordination. In the course of
implementation, coordination was improved:



(i)   at the DPA level, by the upgrading of a weak project unit (Bureau
du Projet) into a strong project management unit (Cellule Technique
du Projet) reporting directly to the project director and in charge
of coordinating and monitoring project activities; and
(ii)  at the farmer level by the gradual establishment and strengthening
of truly integrated CTs with multidisciplinary teams involved in
both work implementation and extension activities (see para 23,
extension).
13.   Project design had to be modified to eliminate some small subcomponents
which proved non-viable (sugar beet development in Middle Loukkos and contour
strips of pasture and forage shrubs in Upper Loukkos), and to accommodate
substantial cost-overruns over appraisal estimates for plantation establishment
in Izarene forest and collective pasture improvement in the Middle Loukkos (see
para 20 and 26).
E.    Project Implementation
14.   Implementation Schedule and Project Financing:  The project was approved
in May 1980, signed December 22nd 1980, but did not become effective before
September 29 1981 so that 1982 was considered the first project year. After a
slow two year start-up period, project implementation proceeded at a normal pace
from  1984  onwards.    The  initial  delays  resulted  from  difficulties  in
establishing work programs, preparing and processing procurement documents and
building the necessary basic infrastructure (offices and houses) as the
Chefchaouen DPA was created at the same time as the project, and the project
team, although dynamic and enthusiastic, was inexperienced with Bank procedures.
The major problem encountered in the course of project implementation was
enduring budget restrictions after the 1983 crisis, which resulted in continuous
underfunding of the project in spite of the measures taken under the Special
Action Program (SAP) and of repeated Bank requests to the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) for higher levels of funding. The large depreciation of the DH against
the US$ after appraisal2 resulted in a first cancellation of US$ 10 million,
reducing the loan amount from US$ million 34 to 24 in November 1984. Due to
budget constraints, project implementation was limited to agricultural
activities after 1985.   As budget constraints persisted, the February 1987
supervision mission determined that, to complete the project, it was necessary
to: (i) postpone the closing date by 18 months to December 31, 1989; (ii)
restructure the project by curtailing some components (roads, education, and
2 Appraisal exchange rate: US$ 1- 3.8 dh
Averate annual exchange rate during project implementation:
1981 5.2, 1982 6.0, 1983 7.1, 1984 8.8, 1985 10.1, 1986 9.1,
1987 8.4, 1988 8.2, 1989 8.48



- 7 -
National Cadaster); (iii) establish a special account for items being financed
under the loan; and (v) cancel a further US$ 6 million of the loan.   The
restructuring was part of an overall effort to help Morocco refocus its
investment program on core investments in face of the financial crisis.
15.   Detailed Implementation of the ComDonents:  Table 4, Part III indicates
implementation ratios for major quantifiable project activities.  We discuss
below the variances between planned and actual project implementation by type
of activity.
16.   Infrastructure and Eauipment    Most of the infrastructure planned was
built and most of the equipment planned was purchased.   Implementation fell
short of projections for small and medium scale irrigation rehabilitation in the
Upper L'ukkos and, even after restructuring of the project, for access roads and
tracks (impl. ratio 70%) and schools (impl. ratio 80%).
17.   Erosion Control Works in Upper Loukkos :  Erosion control works in the
Upper Loukkos included mechanical treatments and biological treatments, pasture
establishment and forage shrub and fruit tree plantations. The necessary erosion
control works had been estimated at appraisal on the basis of the Loukkos
Watershed Master Plan (see para 9). In the course of project implementation,
the Mokrisset CT multidisciplinary team carried out detailed studies in the
project area at the subwatershed level which led to some modifications of the
type and quantities of works, particularly for mechanical treatments.
Altogether about 23,000 ha were treated against 15,000 ha planned at appraisal.
18.   Mechanical  treatments  included various  check  dams,  terraces,  stone
walls...    Forage shrubs plantations (acacia cyanophylla) were successfully
established on severely eroded collective lands (bad lands) and proved a useful
feed very well accepted by goats, increasing the forage productivity of these
lands from nothing to about 800 fu/ha year. The establishment of contour strips
of pasture and forage shrubs on about 1,050 ha had to be abandoned because of
the scattered very small mountain fields which made that technique unacceptable
to farmers as it prevents them from cultivating their subsistence crop. In their
place it was decided to develop private plots on which legumes are grown in
association with graminae; 770 ha of these private plots were  implemented.
Fruit tree plantations were successfully established on 3710 ha, well above the
appraisal estimate, and species other than olive were introduced, namely almond,
prune and apple trees and grape vine.
19.   Izarene Forest :  The quantitative targets for both forest roads and
plantation establishment were largely exceeded with implementation ratios of
420% (105 km actual for 25 km planned) and 125% (4420 ha planted for 3550
planned) respectively; but the other subcomponents, maintenance of existing
plantations. forest research. and soil erosion monitoring were not implemented.
Furthermore, 500 ha of the new plantations established under the project which
have been damaged by repeated droughts will need to be reestablished, and 2,000
ha need urgent maintenance as shrub regrowth is very active.



-8-
20.   The cost of the forestry component remained an issue during the first
three years of implementation. At the outset of the project, the appraisal cost
estimate for this component appeared considerably underestimated as (i) it
failed to include costs for the planned maintenance of existing plantations, and
(ii) the Forest Service claimed that actual establishment costs were one and a
half to three times higher than estimated. To avoid substantial cost overruns
various ways were invastigated to (i) find financing for the maintenance of
existing plantations, and (ii) reduce establishment costs, in particular through
mechanized land preparation. With regard to (i), no external financing could
be found and because of domestic financial difficulties only a minimal area was
maintained by the Forest Service.  With regard to (ii), after further study,
including a specialized consultant mission, it was found that because of steep
and uneven slopes mechanized land preparation was not practicable. The average
cost of project plantations is about dh/ha 6350 in 1989 dh which is about 30%
above the appraisal estimate (dh/ha 2900 in 1981 dh or 4650 in 1989 dh).
21.   The Forest Research program included research plantations to test new
forest plantation and maintenance techniques developed in other parts of the
Mediterranean Basin under the responsibility of the Research Division of the
Forestry Department. Shortly before the project started, the Forest Department
had esta'olished a pilot area in the Upper Loukkos in which the effects of
different  measures  taken  to  control  the  rate  of erosion  and downstream
sedimentation in El Makhazine reservoir would be monitored; this pilot area was
expected to be used for monitoring the impact of the project on soil erosion.
However, in spite of repeated pleas from supervision missions and project staff,
the Research Division of the Forestry Department showed no interest. As a
result, the forest research program never took off, and no measurements were
ever made in the pilot area so that today data are not available to assess the
impact of the project against its major objective.
22.   Agricultural Development :  Agricultural development was to be achieved
through (i) the establishment of an extension service to help farmers increase
farm profitability and reduce soil erosion by using less erosive agricultural
techniques and increasing areas under forage, and (ii) improved input supply
through the creation of two farm supply centers attached to the CTs.
23.   After initial delays and difficulties the extension service became by 1987
a successful operation and, along with other Bank rural development projects,
a model for the recently effective Agricultural Research and Extension project
(Ln 3036). With the exception of CTs located in Bank project areas, extension
as presently carried out in Morocco is not effective due to the lack of a well-
designed system and clear terms of reference and working programs at all levels.
Because of the multiplicity of tasks assigned to them, extension agents work
only occasionally on true extension activities, and activities are not
integrated as livestock development is carried out independently from crop
production development.  In 1984 the Loukkos CTs were the first in Morocco to
include personnel from the livestock and forestry Directorates. An adapted T&V
system has been tested with success in the two project CTs.  These CTs were
staffed with a multidisciplinary team of subject matter specialists in charge
of preparing the extension program and training and supporting the extension
agents. Because of the delays in the completion of the CT infrastructure and



- 9 -
staff secondment to the CTs, extension activities started one year late with the
1983/84 growing season. During the first two years, extension activities were
greatly hampered by the lack of personnel, the weak technical expertise and
communication skills of the personnel, and the lack of vehicles and operating
budget for vehicles combined with difficulty of access to farms in this
mountainous region.   In line with the recommendations of the 1985 mid-term
review, a training specialist was hired by the Bank to recommend how to improve
the extension services and was appointed to the Loukkos project as pilot
operation. He made a series of recommendations for the reorganization of the
services and prepared a training program. His recommendations were accepted by
the project and the Bank; and their implementation, along with an increase in
staff, contributed to a substantial improvement of the extension services,
particularly in extension efficiency.
24.   As  regards  input  use,  sales  of mechanized  agricultural  equipment,
fertilizers and certified seeds by the CTs and private dealers increased
substantially in the project area, greatly surpassing appraisal estimates.
Fertilizer sales were multiplied fifteen fold from 255 t in 1980/81 to 4015 t
in 1987/88 and certified seeds sales increased about two fold, from 160 t in
1980/81 to 310 t in 1987/88.   Sales of animal drawn machinery in the Upper
Loukkos reached only about 60% of appraisal estimates.
25.   Livestock Activities:    The planned livestock  infrastructure  (cattle
servicing stations, sheep and goat breeding stations, milk collection center)
has been established and livestock services (Artificial Insemination, health
services ...) have improved satisfactorily. The procurement of 300 goats for
breeding proved most difficult as first attempts to import Murcia goats from
Spain (1983-86) failed because of sanitary problems, and imports from France
have been in process ever since.
26.   The  collective  pasture  improvement  in  the  Zaz  area  started slowly
primarily because of difficulties and lengthy procedures in establishing
boundaries between collective units; as a result only 1,700 ha or 46% of the
planned 3,700 ha have been implemented3. The improved pastures have an average
productivity of about 2300 fu/ha as compared to 100-300 fu/ha originally. Good
management of the pastures was not achieved before 1987, by which time user
group, pasture management, and cost recovery started to function well.
Establishment costs for improved pastures were underestimated at appraisal since
actual costs averaged 4460 dh/ha or about 25% above the 3550 dh/ha estimated at
appraisal in 1989 constant dh (4000 dh/ha in 1986 current prices and 2060 dh/ha
in 1981 current prices, respectively).
27.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E):   In spite of good will and various
attempts at the project and central level to set up and run an appropriate
monitoring and evaluation system, firm data are lacking to quantify the impact
3 This paragraph has beeen changed according to the Borrower's comment, in
para (A) (1) of Part II.  The Staff Appraisal Report--page 16, para 3.11--
indicates 2,300 ha for the target area of pasture improvement; however the
Project Implementatioa, Volume--Appendix 3, Table 5a--indicates 3,700 ha.



- 10 -
of the project, particularly regarding agricultural incomes and erosion control.
At the start of the project, M&E was supposed to be carried out at the project
level by the statistics service at DPA, under the guidance of the central M&E
unit located with MAYA's Central Directorate for Planning and Economic Affairs
(DPAE). From 1981 to 1983 the project and central M&E units worked on designing
a proper methodology for M&E of the project, on the basis of the system
established for the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project.  A base line survey was carried
out in 1983 using this methodology. However, by 1985 it was recognized that
DPAE's M*E unit was overloaded and the staff of the project M&E unit lacked
experience.   As a follow-up to the mid-term review the Bank helped arrange
comprehensive M&E training for staff of the four rural development projects with
the CIRAD (Centre International de Recherche sur l'Agriculture et le
Développement, formerly GERDAT). After a CIRAD mission in May 1985 to identify
the training needs, a training program was designed and implemented including
a three month theoretical training course in Montpellier, France (May-July
1986), and four applied training sessions in Morocco (Oct-Nov 86, Jan-Feb 87,
Mar 87, and Aug 87) with participants from the four projects and DPAE's M&E
unit.   The potential benefits from this intensive training have not been fully
realized because, although financial progress and physical realizations for
infrastrl..cture and equipment have been satisfactorily monitored, data are
lacking to quantify the project impact with respect to its objectives-- to
reduce erosion and increase agricultural incomes. M&E is a recurrent problem
in agricultural projects in Morocco because DPAs are usually not convinced of
its usefulness4.
28.   Farmers'  Participation        In previous  erosion  control  operations,
particularly the DERRO project (see para 7) and as defined in the "Code des
Investissements" , the Government f inanced and executed most of the works, which
imposed a high financial burden. Thus a major objective of this project was to
develop organizational arrangements that encourage farmers' participation at
both the planning and execution stages in order to secure the commitment of
beneficiaries to the investment programs and to reduce Government's share in
the cost of investment.
29.    After initial difficulties the project was successful in (i) improving
farmers' participation to erosion control actions on private lands such as fruit
tree plantations and (ii) developing collective management systems for
collective resources such as the establishment of agricultural cooperatives, and
the constitution of user groups for small scale irrigation, collective permanent
pastures in Middle Loukkos and forage shrubs plantations in the Upper Loukkos.
For the Middle Loukkos collective pasture, user groups establish a program of
resource use with the support of CT staff, and enforce it, including the
collection of user fees and maintenance.
30.    The delays and difficulties stemmed from (a) the insufficient sensitivity
of project planners to land tenure issues, and (b) the passive stand of the
Ministry of Interior.   Because of the severe shortage of land resources for
cultivation and grazing, and the unclear land tenure situation, local
4 See Borrower's comment, in (A) (2) para 27 of Part II



- il -
populations perceive Government intervention for erosion control essentially as
an attempt to further restrain their usufructuary rights on public lands or to
deprive them from tenure on private lands. Project planners designed the erosion
control operations mostly on the basis of technical criteria, and did not take
enough into consideration the sensitivity of land tenure issues which triggered
the opposition of local populations.    To resolve  this conflict,  project
management, belonging to a technical Ministry, had to negotiate through the
intermediary of the Ministry of Interior whose main objective is avoiding social
unrest in rural areas. The Ministry of Interior had not been closely involved
in either project preparation or implementation, and therefore did not actively
contribute to resolving conflicts which delayed project implementation'.
F.    Malor Results of the Project
31.   Crop Development:  The impact of the extension activities and improved
input supply is illustrated by the evolution in land use and the increase in
yields and production in the project area over the project life. The tables in
Annexes 1-3 summarize these evolutions. However, because of the weaknesses of
the monitoring and evaluation, these data are somewhat shaky.
The major changes in land use (Annex 1) are:
(a)   the extension of cultivated land from (i) erosion control
works whose "banquettes" and tree plantations on contours
allowed an extension of cultivated land on strips and (ii)
land clearing for establishment of new pastures;
(b)   a large increase in soft wheat, vegetables and fruit tree
plantations and a decrease in hard wheat and fallow; and
(c)   the introduction of forage crops.
32.   The sugar beet component was abandoned in 1985 as sugar beet proved a crop
ill-suited to the project area and its economics were questioned by the Bank
following sector work on prices and incentives carried out in preparation of
ASAL I.
33.   Agricultural Yields  (Annex 3)   have improved over the project life,
although less than anticipated at appraisal except for fruit tree yields which
remained identical to appraisal levels. However, it is difficult to separate
the impact of the project from the impact of rainfall fluctuations over the
project life.
34.   As a result of the changes in land use and yield increases, agricultural
production (Annex 2) increased substantially in the project area as indicated
in the table below. Cereal production more than doubled with a more than
¶ See Borrower's comment in (A) (2) para 30, Part II.



-  12  -
fifteen fold increase in soft wheat. Production of legumes increased by more
than 50%, vegetable production increased almost five fold and fruit tree
production six fold. These production increases are above appraisal estimates,
except for legumes and sugarbeet.
Projected and Actual Crop Production in the Project Area
(t)
SAR                          PCR
1979                         1989
Cereals                      9,465                        22,790
Legumes                      3,700                         5,865
Vegetables                   5,700                        27,720
Fruit Trees                  2,660                        16,695
35.   Livestock Develooment (Annexes 1 and 4): Increases in livestock production
in the project area have been below appraisal estimates. Meat production more
than doubled and milk production iîncreased five fold.  Overall figures do not
reflect highly contrasted performances between the project subareas and animal
species. Goat development has been largely below appraisal estimates because of
the enduring problems encountered in procuring improved breeds. Cattle
development has been very successful and above appraisal estimates, particularly
in the Middle L,ukkos.   Sheep development was successful in increasing meat
production in the Upper Loukkos.
36.    Reevaluation of Economic Rate of Return (ERR):  An independent FAOiCP
mission constituted by one economist was sent in April 1989 to Morocco to
assist DPAE with the economic reevaluation of the project to be included in
the borrower's contribution to the PCR. The FAO/CP reevaluation resulted in
much higher ERRs than estimated at appraisal, which are believed to be
largely overestimates for a number of reasons, including weak data and rough
assumptions. Because of trie insufficient project monitoring (see para 27),
firmer data are still lacking and it appears extremely difficult to
differentiate between project impact and the overall agricultural growth in
the project area.   Initial calculations indicate that the ERR would be at
least equal to the appraisal estimate.   However more information should
become available within the next two years to assess more accurately the ERR
of the project. First, MARA envisages to carry out an impact evaluation for
the project, which will bring more accurate estimates of costs and benefits.2
Second, consultants are carrying out a technical assistance program on
watershed management in Morocco.  The program includes a study which, inter
alia, will analyze the economics of watershed management and rural
development in mountain areas. (See "(c) Commentsw in Table 6, page 27.)
2 This last sentence has been added in light of the Borrower's comment (A),
(2), para.35 in part II.



13 -
G.    Project Sustainability
37. The agricultural development under the project was achieveu by relying upon
a high level of Government services, particularly extension, which was preserved
in spite of considerable budget constraints partly thanks to World Bank
intervention7 with MOF. Possible reduction in financial endowments or staff for
Government services in the project area could threaten the sustainability of this
agricultural development.  In the medium term this is not a risk since the
existing extension structure, somewhat modified, will be financed in the
framework of the Agricultural Research and Extension project, to be implemented
over the next five years. The plantations established under the Izarene forest
component will produce the expected benefits only if they are properly maintained
and thinned.   This is not guaranteed as many of the Moroccan coniferous
plantations are completely neglected after establishment. However, the Second
Forestry Development project will contribute to improve the management of
coniferous plantations through a research component on silvicultural treatment
of young coniferous plantations (macro-experiment on 2,000 ha for cleaning and
another 2,000 ha for cleaning, thinning, pruning, selecting and marking).
H.    Bank Performance
38.   During the long identification/preparation the primary objective of the
project, from the Bank perspective, kept evolving between poverty alleviation,
rainfed development, livestock development, erosion control. This contributed
to a lack of foeus and prioritization of activities in project design. In the
course of implementation, the Bank proved responsive and flexible in modifying
project design to account for budgetary constraints and non-viable components.
However, the Bank was slow to recognize the implications of the enduring fiscal
crisis. Although project implementation was hampered by lack of investment and
operating budget ever since 1983, the project was officially restructured only
in May 1987.
I.    Borrower Performance
39.   For project preparation, the natio,al team was not able to provide much
support so that the expatriate preparation team had to provide most of the
input8.   During project execution the local management and execution team
(Chefchaouen DPA and CTs) was knowledgeable, committed and dynamic and has to
be credited for most of the project achievements. Good relations between Project
Management and MOF helped sustain a better level ',f financing than for other
rural development projects. It appears that the !MARA directorates directly
concerned with the project (Forestry Directorate and DPAE) failed to provide the
' This sentence has been modified in light of the Borrower's comment, (A)
(2) para. 36 in Part II.
8 See Borrower's comment, (A) (2) para. 38 in part II. The first sentence
of this paragraph refers to the preparation under the FAO1/UNDP project (see para
9 of Part I), not to the cooperation between the Morocca- Government and IBRD
during appraisal.



- 14 -
necessary methodological support for specific project activities they had to
follow up on, particularly with regards to monitoring and evaluation,  and
forestry  research  and  erosion  monitoring.  Although  local  population
participation was a key aspect of the project, the Ministry of Interior did not
play an active role to promote it'°.  The MOF did not comply fully with the
agreements reached tinder the SAP for minimal financing of the project.
J.    Project RelationshiR
40.   Relationships between Project Management, MARA and its Forestry Directorate
and Bank supervision staff were excellent and a good technical dialogue was
established between Project and Bank staff.
K.    Consulting Services
41.   In the case of livestock the two consultants hired could not contribute
much because tney were not fluent in French and they were hired far too early
in project life before their intervention was needed."
L.    Project Documentation and Data
42.   The reporting requirements for the project were not satisfactorily agreed
between the Bank and the executing agency, although the DPA provided detailed
anrnual implementation reports and other reports. Because of the budgetary
constraints, the emphasis in supervision was very much aimed at obtaining
adequate budget allocations, commitments, payments and disbursements at some cost
to normal technical supervision.    Monitoring and evaluation was weak, as a
result the impact of the project on neither agricultural production and incomes
nor soil erosion can be fully assessed. It is necessary, from the very outset,
pcssibly as early as during preparation, to define with the implementing agency
the key data to be collected on a regular basis for proper project monitoring
and evaluation.
9 See Borrower's comment in (A) (2) Para. 38, in Part II.
'O This sentence was modified in light of the Borrower's comment, (A) (2)
para.38, in part II. Originally worded as :"... it seems that the Ministry of
Interior took a rather passive stand".
" This paragraph has been changed in light of the Borrower's comment, (A)
(2), para. 40, in Part II.



-1S -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Formulated by DPAE/MARA anid the Chefchaouen DPA
At the meeting held on September 3, 1990 at the office of the DPAE
in Rabat, representatives of the DPAE and Chefchaouen DPA formulated the
following comments on the Projec, Comoletion Report for the Loukkos Rural
Developmenc Project drafted by I. Schirmer (World Bank).
A. Confirmation of factual data contained in Paras I and III:
comments on the analysis coqtained in Part I.
1. All the data appearing in Parts I and III agree with the data
available to the Project Management, except for the figures given in para. 26
relative to pasture improvement. The total planned was 3,700 ha, not 2,300 ha,
and the total implemented 1,700 ha, not 1,500 ha. The productivity figure of
100-300 fu/ha relates to the situation before improvement.
2. Comments on the analysis'.
Para. 27
All the participating agencies are convinced of the usefulness of
M&E.   However, the project has not given this aspect all the importance it
deserves, particularly in the matter of forecasting and allocation of the
necessary human and financial resources.
Para, 30
This paragraph needs to be modified and reworded as follows:
"The delays in project execution and the difficulties noted are due:
a.    to the complexity and dissimilarity of the land-tenure systems;
b.    to  the  large  number  of participating  agencies  and  the
interdependence and highly specific nature of the operations,
which led to problems of coordination."
'The numbering of paragraphs in the original part II was modified after a
translation of this original was sent to the Borrower for comments. The
paragraph numbers given as reference in the Borrower's comments have been
revised accordingly.



- 16 -
Para. 38
Economic evaluation of the project in 1989
Since this evaluation had to be very rough because of a lack of data,
it is preferable not to include this paragraph in the completion report. The
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform is planning an a posteriori
evaluation of the project.
Para, 40
This paragraph needs to be modified and reworded as follows: n..
was preserved partly thanks to World Bank intervention with the Ministry of
Fenance. Possible reduction..."
Para, 40
This paragraph should be reworded as follows:
"The project was prepared by an IBRD team working in close
cooperation with a Moroccan team..."
Because of certain factors mentioned earlier on (para. 27), the
participating Central Governnent Directorates (DPAE for M&E, Direction des Eaux
et Fc3e.tv for forestry research and erosion control) failed to regularly monitor
the aotrivities in their respective fields.
Para. £2
Omit the phrase: "it seems that the Ministry of the Interior took
a rather passive stand."
Para, 40
The hiring of consultants was not behind schedule, and took place
in agreement with the Bank.
B. Evaluation and summarv of Bank actions
ITe Bank participated actively in the removal of several constraints
appearing at the time of project execution, sending a large number of
consultation missions and high-quality experts.



- 17 -
C. Evaluation of Moroccan Government actions
The Moroccan Government accorded great importance to project
execution, specifically through the following efforts:
-     creation of the Chefchaouen DPA;
-     mobilization of the funds needed for satisfactory execution
of the project works, despite the fact that the project
coincided with a period of budgetary restriction;
-     secondment of multidisciplinary teams;
-     project management organization;
-     creation of a coordination network (committees) composed of
the  different  participating  agencies  and  the  project
beneficiaries;
-     enactmentof forestry legislation andregulations, installation
of erosion cor.trol structures, and creation of pasture
improvement areas;
-     reorganization of the work centers (CTs) in the project area,
integrating all areas of agricultural expertise;
-     creation of incentives to encourage farmers to participate in
certain project activities;
-     creation of agricultural associations and cooperatives to
derive the greatest benefit from the project activities.
D. Relations between the Bank and the Moroccan Government
Within the framework of the Loukkos project, relations between the
Bank and the Moroccan Government were satisfactory, which also contributed
largely to the project's success.



- 19 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                                             Years of
Title                              Purpose            Approval    Status
Loan 2590-MOR               Support the first phase        FY 85    Closed June 24,
Agricultural Sector         of implementation of the                 1987
Adiustment Loan             Government's program of
adjustments in the
agricultural sector.
The principal objectives
of the sector adjustment
program are to improve
the growth rate in
agriculture within the
overall constraints in
public resources.
Loan 2885-MOR Seco          Support the second phase       FY 88    Third Tranche
Agricujltçal Sector         of implementation of the                Release Pending
Adiustment Loan             Government's medium t rm
agricultural sector
adjustment program,
within the framework of
a general macroeconomic
restructuring program.
The essential objectives
are to foster efficient
agricultural growth and
to contribute to the
reduction of budgetary
and current account
deficits to manageable
levels.
Loan 1602-MOR Fes-Karia-   Improve rural income and        FY 78    Closed
Tissa Agriculture           social well-being of                     06/30/90
Project                     33,900 farm families in
the project area through                Original closing
(a) improvements to the                 date 06/30/86
research and extension
services, (b) increased
credit availability, (c)
improved input supply,
(d) erosion control, (e)
wasteland rehabilitation



- 20 -
and (f) investments in
infrastructure such as
roads, schools, health
facilities, and water
supply.
Loan 2082-MOR Middle        Increase agricultural          FY 82    Under supervision
Atlas-Central Area         production and rural
Agriculture Development    income and employment in                 Original closing
Project                    the project area through                 date 06/30/88.
forestry, range, and
cropping land                           Current closing
development.                            date 12/30/90.
Loan 2217-MOR Qulmes-       Improve the living             FY 83    Under supervision
Rommani Agricultural        standards of the
Develooment Proiect        predominantly rural.                     Original closing
population living within                date 12/31/89.
the project area through
development of                          Current closing
agriculture, livestock,                 date 07/01/91.
and forestry and through
provision of better
social and agriculture
services.



- 21 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item               Date Planned Date Revised Date Actual
Identification                                  02 and 5/1975
Preparation 1                                   10/75
Preparation 2                                   04/1977 through
07/1978
Pre-Appraisal                                   07/1979
Appraisal                                        09/1979
Negotiations                                    04/1980
Board Approval                                  05/1980
Loan Signature                                  12/1980
Effectiveness        03/1981       06/1981      09/1981
Closing              06/1987       12/1988       12/1988
Completion                                      06/1989



- 22 -
Table 3: Loon Diabursementa
A. Cumulative Estimated end Actual Disbursements
IBRD                         Appraisal         Adjusted                             X of adjusted
Fiscal Year                  Estimate          Estimate            Actual           Estimâtes
--------------   (U.S. $ Million)  ------------
myi
Harcb      31, 1981        1.5                -                   -
June       30, 1981        2.8                -                   -
lu82
September 30. 1981         4.1                -                   -
December  31, 1981         5.4                -                   -
March      31, 1982        7.4                -                   -
June       30. 1982        9.4                1.5                 1.5             100
lui
September 30, 1982         11.4               2.1                 1.5              71
December  31, 1982         13.4               2.7                 2.0              74
March      31, 1982        15.1               3.3                 2.9              88
June       30, 1983        16.8               3.9                 3.5              90
1Y84
September 30,1983          18.4               4.5                 4.3               96
December  31,1983          20.0               5.1                 4.7               92
Merch      31,1984         21.4               5.7                 5.8              102
June       30,1984         22.8               6.3                 6.0               95
mm
September 30. 1984         24.1               6.9                 6.6               96
December  31, 1984         25.4               7.5                 6.8               91
March      31, 1985        26.7               8.1                 7.0               es
June       30, 1985        28.0               8.7                 7.0               80
lui
September 30, 1985         29.2               9.3                 7.1               76
December  31, 1985         30.4               9.9                 7.7               78
Marcb      31, 1986        31.3              10.5                 8.2               78
June       30, 1986        32.2              11.1                 8.5               77
FY87
September 30, 1986         33.1              11.7                 8.9               76
December  31, 1986         34.0              12.3                 9.0               73
March      31, 1987                          12.9                 9.9               77
Jtme       30, 1987                          13.5                10.0               74
September 30, 1987                           14.1                10.9               77
December  31, 1987                           14.7                13.3               90
March      31, 1988                          15.3                13.3               87
June       30, 1988                          15.9                13.4               84
EYQ                                                                                   81
September 30, 1988                           16.5                13.4               78
Dccember  31, 1988                           17.1                13.4               76
March      31, 1989                          17.7                14.1               78
June       30, 1989                          18.0                14.4               80
September      1989
/a       Orisinal *cbedule delayed by 5 quarters to account for extensive deleys in loan signature
(12/22/80) and date of effectivenesa (09/24/81). Based on cancellation of US$ 10 million
in 1985 and US$ 6 million in 1987.



- 23 -
B. Planned and Actual Disbursements by Category
Category
Actual/
Planned     Revised      Actual       Revised
1/          2/           3/          X
1. Construction for building          7.2         4.7          3.7          78X
and kouses
2. Civil Works for Roads              7.5         2.8          2.2          78X
3. Erosion control works,             8.2         6            5.9          98X
forestry, pasture
improvement, markets and
water ponds, farm access
tracks
4. Vehicles and Equipment             2.1         1.1          .9           82X
5. On-farm soil conservation          2.5         1.7          1.1          65X
and irrigation
6. Consultants and training           1           .4           .3           75X
abroad
7. Cadastral Survey                   2.8         0.3          0.3          100X
8. Non Allocated                      2.7         1            0            0
TOTAL                                 34          18           14.4         80X
1/ Loan Agreement December 22, 1980
2/ May 29, 1987, Special Action Program, After Project Restructuring,
cancellation, and extension of closing date.
3/ August 24, 1989 from Disbursement Office.



- 24 -
Table 4:  Proiect Imilementation:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RATIOS
A. INFRASTRUCTURE AND EUIPMENT
Unit       Projected  Implemented         Impl.    SAR**        Comments
*            1989            Ratio
Roade
Tertiary Roads         km         68              68             100X
Accesa Roada,
Middle Loukkos         km         54              40              745
Access Roada,
Upper Loukkos          km          12             9               75S      58
Acceas Tracks,
Upper Loukkos          km         75              46              61X
Small and Medium Scale Irrixation Rehabilitation
Middle Loukkos         ha         245             295            120S
Upper Loukkos          ha         390             210             54S                  insufficient water resources
and land availability to meet
sub-total              ha         635             505             80X                  SAR projections
Buildinrs
Workshops              m2          1220           1220           100X
Covered Store          m2         2400            2400           100X
Offices                m2           410            410           100X
Houses                 unit          76             62            82X
Miscellaneous V/       unit          10           1i             110X
Vehicles
Trucks                 unit           6              6           100X
Light Cars             unit           5             12           240X
Four Wheela drive      unit          32             32           100X
Tractors               unit          16             12            75S
Motorcycles            unit          47             16            34X
Social Infrastructure
Schools, Classrooms   unit          22              18            82X      53
Schools, Teacher
lodging                unit          15             12            802      45
Rural Dispensary       unit           2              2           100X
Rural Health Center   unit            1              1           100X
Doctors house/nurse
quarters               unit           9              5            56X
Village Water Points  unit           38             35            92X
Rural Markets          unit           3              4           1331
Cadastral Survev       000 ha     200             200            1002      500
2 Projected in the SAR (1980), or after project restructuration in 1987
** Originally projected in SAR, if restructured
1/ Miscellaneous includes various buildings for livestock development ("l bergerie, 1 chevrerie, 7 stations de
monte, 1 poste AI etc.")



- 25 -
B. FORESTRY AND EROSION CONTROL
Unit                 Projected            Implemented          Impl.           Coments
|  SR M1989                               Ratio
Unner Loukkos
Pasture/Trees
Forage in and                 ha                   3805                 770                  20X
batween strips                ha                    300
Permanent Pasture             ha                   2805                 2870                 102X
Acacia Planting               ha                   2260                 3710                 164X
Fruit Trees Planting
Works                                                                                                        Mix of works and
physical targets
changed in the
course of the
project
Biological Gully              plants               400,000              179,000              451
Control
Check dams:                                                                                                   "Seuils Anti-
Erosifs'-
amall                       unit                 65,900               36.200               55               "Petits seuils
combinés, pierres et
agaves
large, stone                m3                     3,500              25,025               715X            "Grands seuils,
sabions et épis de
déflexion"
large, metal                m2                    15,900               4,190                26X            "Grands Seuils
métalliques"
Stone Terraces                m                     79,500              71,990               911              'Terrasses"
Small Stone Walls             m                    103,750              217,000              209X             "Cordons en pierres
sèches"
me                      -16,120                                 -              "Murettes de pierres
sèches"
m                                         193,500               -              "Banquettes de
diversion"
unit                    -                     630               -              "Seuils à piquetsen
bois"
Izarene Forest
Forest Roada                  km                     25                    105                420S
New Plantations               ha                   3550                   4420               124.5X
Middle Loukkos
Pasture Improvement           ha                   3700                   1700                48Z



- 26 -
C. IPPUT DISTRIBUTION
Unit                 Projected             SIpl.mnted           Impl. R         Camments
SAR                  1989                tio X
Middle Louo
Mechaniration 1/              unit                    50                    54                 108X            CT sales only
Animal Drun                   unit                  1000                 2500                   58X            CT:580 - Private
Hechinery                                                                                                      Dealers: 1920
Certifi.d Seede               Mt                      75                   1064                1420S           CT end private
dealers
Fertilisera                   mt                    1,900                12,060                635X            CT and private
dealers
UDD r Loukhol
Animal Draun                  unit                  400                  1090                  272S            CT sales only
Machinery /
Certified Seeds               Mt                    100                  810                   272X            CT and private
dealers
Fertilisera                   Mt                    975                  5378                  5521            CT and private
dealers
I/     Tractor. Harrow, Seeder. Treiler and Chisel Cultivator



_ 27 -
Table S: ProAeot Conte end Finanoina
A. Proiect Conts 1/
(Millio.i DE)
Appraisal 2/          Completion O    Completion as S of Appraisal
Aaricultural Develomnent and
Erosion Control
Middle Loukkos                       67.62                 39.95             59
Upper Loukkos                        25.54                 61.29           240
Irarene Forest                       18 3271                              I7
111.47                130.00           117
Cadastral Survey                    25.18                 3.48               14
Teohaical Assistance  and           7.06
Training
Ronde end Tracks
Middle Loukkos                      26.09                 28.60             110
Upper Loukkos                       28.06                  5.40              19
Equipment for road maintenance       Z B8                   -                 -
pub-total                         57.03                 34.00             80
Social Infrastructure               58.11                  4.73               8
Total                               256.85                172.21           67
a/ A breakdown between foreign exchan4e and local conta in not available
2/ Based on Staff Evaluation Report. includes contingencies
/ Based on Borrowerls completion report ("Rapport d'Achivement, Juin 1989)
B. P&oiect Finencina
(US$ million)
Source                  Planned                 Revised                 Plnel
SAR 1980 1/             May 1987 2/             3/
IBRD                    34                      18                      14.4
Governaent              24.7                    14                       7.3
CWCA Credit             3.3                                             n.a.
Contribution
Farers'Contrib          5.6                                             n.a
ution
Total                   67.6                    32                      21.7
1/  Based on an aichanse rate of: US$ 1-3.8 DE
2i  Based on exchange rate in 1987 of US  1-8.4 DE end PvoJ.ct rn,tructurIno.
3/  Beased on cumulated actual disbursements in US$ for IBRD, and the stream or total actuol project costs tl Dh
convert.d to US$ usins the  xchange rates sivf in footuote pase 6 of Part I.



- 28 -
Table 6: ProAect Results
Economic Impact
a) ADDraisal Estimates of ERR
Whole Pro.ect
Base Case                               15X
Unakilled labor charged                 13X
et full financial cost
Unner Loukkos
Base Cane                      17X
Without Irrigation             13X
Improved without               13X
project case
Middle Loukkos
Base Case                      16X
Excluding tertiary
roada investments              20X
Forestry
Total                          10X
P. Canariensis                 11S
P. Pinaster                    8ô
b) Underlvina Assumutions for Avoraisal Estimates
Whole Proiect
Constant 1980 Prices
Shadow Exchange Rate 7X below official exchange rate
Unskilled labor opportunity cost: half official minimum wage rate in base case
Roads costs in the Upper and Middle Loukkos allocated to the respective subprojects. Costs and benefits of social
infrastructure (achools, water supply, health facilities, market improvements) excluded from the economic analysis.
Upper Loukkos (20 years)
Costa of erosion control vorks such as the large check dams in the valleys excluded as they are allocated to downstream
usera.
In base case, it has been assumed that half the existing agricultural production would be lost after eight years in the
without project case. In the sensitivity analysis agricultural production is assumed to remain constant without the projec
Middle Loukkos (20 years)
In base case no benefits have been estimated for non project ro.d usera although the tertiary roads vould benefit a much
larger population than that included in the project area.
Forestrv (40 years)
Border price of imported softwood US$ 160/m3
c) Comments
An FAO/CP mission vas fielded to Morocco to assist with the reevaluation of the rate of the return of the project.
The FAO/CP analysis resulted in ERRs much higher than the appraisal estimates, however the FAO/CP estimates are believed to
be overestimated for a number of rescons. The Ministry of Agriculture and A8rarian Reform envisages to carry out an impact
evaluation which will bring more accurate results. In addition, the Bank is executing agency to carry out a technical
assistance program for watershed management, financed frco  a japanese grant.  The program includes a study which, inter ali
vill review the economics of watershed management and rural developement in Morocco, and will specifically examine the case
of the Loukkos watershed.



- 29 -
Table 7: Status of Covenantg
Covenant:                           Date of effectivenese                                         Due Date  :06/81
LA Section:                                                                                      Actuel Date: 09/81
Decrees required for Loan effectiveness have been
published in September 1980 and April 1981
Covenant:                           Closing date                                                  Due Date :06/87
LA Section: 2.04                    Extended in May 1987                                          Actual Date: 12/88
Covenant: F                         CNCA to make available credit                                 Due Date : 07/82
LA Section: 3.01 (b)                                                                              Actual Date: 05/83
Complied with to date
Covenant:                           Half yearly meeting of National Project Committee             Due Date
LA Section: 3.01 (c)                                                                             Actual Date
Committee meeting once a year. Last meeting 12/04/86
Covenant:                           Quarterly meetin8 of Provincial Project Committee             Due Date
LA Section: 3.01 (c)                                                                              Actual Date
Coammittee meeting will meet twice a year. Committee met
once in 1986 on 11/02/86
Covenant:                           Cooperation between villagers and technical staff             Due Date
LA Section: 3.01 (c)                concerning soil conservation.                                 Actual Date
Processing satisfactoriLy.
Covenant: O                         Appointment of qualified technical and administrative        Due Date
LA Section: 3.01 (d)                staff                                                         Actual Date
Complied with to date.
Covenant: O                         Hiring of consultants for livestock TA & META                 Due Date : 01/82
LA Section: 3.02                                                                                 Actuel Date : 09/82
Complied with to date.
Covenant: G                         MMAA annual report on project implementation                 Due Date : 04/87
LA Section: 3.04 (c)                                                                             Actual Date: 02/87
Complied with to date.
Covenant:                           Measures to be taken to implement program of collective   Due Date : 04, 2
LA Section: 3.06                    lands.                                                       Actual Date : 02/84
Complied with to date.



- 30 -
Coean nit. 8                      Bank and Dorrower rgview progroes national cadastral      Due Date  12/83
LA Section: L3U                   prnsrmn                                                   Actuel Date  01/84
Proarma atopped due to lack of equipent *nd £unde
Field works eempleted: diabursemente very scw.
Covenant:                         Farmre' participation in irrigation worke                 Due Date  04/82
Section: 3.08                                                                               Actual Date  02/86
Progressina in lino with implumentation
Covenant: A                       Audit project eccountc prepared end sent to Bank          Due Date i 06/88
LA Section: 402A                                                                             Actual Date
1986 audit report received. 1987 report expected by
December 1988.
Covmnennt G                       Semi annuel report on project activities                  Due Date : 07/88
LA Section: 4.02                                                                            Actual Date : 10/88
Cmnplied with to date



_ 31 -
Table 8:  Use of Bamk Resourcs
A. Staff Inputs Per Supervision
(Staff Weeks)
Fiscal     /FY      Cumulative
Year
FY 82      20.2    20.2
FY 83      22.8    43
FY 84      11.5    54.5
FY 85      13.7    68.2
FY 86      16.6    84.8
FY 87      4.8      89.6
FY 88      3.4      93
FY 89      5.1      98.1



- 32 -
8. Use of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Mission
Perfor
-mance
Stage of                    Month/            No. of            Days in            Specialization                      Rating
ProAect Cycle               Year              Persons           Field                 Represented                      Status*
Identification and
Preparation 1/
ApDraisal
Pre-Appraisal               07/79             2                 10                Economist
Livestock Sp.
Appraisal                    09/79             4                21                Economist
Agronomist
Livestock Sp.
Forestry Sp.
Appraisal                   01/80             2                 5                 Economist
Follow-up                                                                         Fin. Analyst
Supervision
Sup. 1  2/                  09/80             2                 7                 Irrigation Sp.
Fin. Analyst
Sup. 2                      05/81             2                 6                 A8. Credit Sp.                       1
Economist
Sup. 3                      10/81             4                 5                 Eccnomist                            1
Fin. Analyst
Bighway Engineer Analyst
Transport Ec.
Sup. 4                       11/81             1                6                 Forestry Sp.                         1
Sup. 5                      02/82             4                 5                 Economists (2)                       2
Agronomist
Liveastock Sp.
Sup. 6                      06/82              1                6                 Forestry Sp.                         1
Sup.6 follow-up             10/82              1                4                 Forestry Sp.
Sup. 7                       11/82            3                 7                 Economist                            2
Agronomist
Livestock Sp.
Sup. 8                      04/83             2                 8                 Agronomist                           3
Forestry Sp.
V/      There wsre about 3 FAO/CP reconnaissance/pre-identification misssions between February 1974 and May 1975, an
FAO/CP identification mission in October 1975, and a Bank identification mission in August 1976. In
addition, there were about six FAO/CP preparation missions between December 1977 and July 1978. Manpower
details are not available
2/      Supervision mission to review progress towards effectiveness.  Combined with Vegetable Production Marketing
Project Supervision. 2 weeks altogether.
* Performance Rating:    1  Problem free or minor problems
2 Moderate problems
3 Major problems



- 33 -
8. Use of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Mission
Perfor
-mance
Stage of                      Month/             No. of             Days in              Specialization                       Rating
Project Cycle                 Year               Persons            Field                  Represented                        Status*
Sup. 9                        02/84              2                   7                  Agronomist                            2
Forestry Specialist
Sup. 10                       10/84              2                   7                  Agronomist                            2
Livestock specialist
Sup. 11 and Mid Term          /06/85              4                  22                 Agronomists (2)
Review 3 projects 3                                                                     Livestock Sp.
Economist
Sup. 12                       02/86               1                  7                  Agronomist                            2
Sup. 13                       02/87              2                   7                  Agronomists (2)                       2
Sup. 14                       11/87               1                  5                  Aaronomist                            2
Sup. 15                       10/88               1                  2                  Agronomist                            2
PCR preparation 4/            04/89              1                   10                 Economist
3/       Combined Mid-Term Review for three rural development projects Fes-Karia Tissa, Loukkos, and Middle Atlas.
4/       1 Economist from FAO/CP to assist with the economic re-evaluation to be included in borroweras contribution
to PCR.
* Performance Rating: 1 Problem free or minor problems
2 Moderate problems
3 Major problems



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Land Use in Prolect Area
(ha)
Actual                Projected               Actual          Actual/Projected
1979        %         1989         %          1989         X            X
MIDDLE LOUKKOS
Cereats       Hard Wheat         4,980        28%       4,905        28%        2,650        15%          54%
Soft Wheat           750         4%       1,470         8%        4,500        26%         306%
Barley               550         3%         975         6%        1,665         9%         171%
Other              2,200        13%       1,150         7%          455         3%          40%
Total              8,480        48%       8.500        48%        9,275        53%         109%
Legumes                          3,450        20%       4,585        26%        4,240        24%          92%
Sugar Beet                                              1,000         6X                                   0%
Vegetables                         450         3%         435         2%        1,470         8%         338%
Total Annual Crops C/L/SB/V   12,380          71%      14,520        83%       14,985        85%         103%
Fruit Trees  Olives                650         4%         650         4%        1,320         8%         203%
Figs                 150         1%         150         1%          585         3%         390%
total                800         5%         800         5%        1,905        11%         238%
Total C/L/SB/V/FT               13,180        75%      15,320        87%       16,890        96%         110%
Others (fallow)                  4,350        25%       2,210        13%          640         4%          29%
TOTAL  MIDOLE LOUKKOS           17,530       100%      17,530       100%       17,530       100%         100%
UPPER LOUKKOS
.... .......
Cereals       Hard Wheat         1,000         7%       1,515        10%        1,105         7%          73%
Soft Wheat           310         2%                     0%        4,175        28%
Barley               750         5%         820         5%        1,415         9%         173%
Other                  95         1%                    0%           65         0%
Total.             2,155        14%       2,335        16%        6,760        45%         290%
Legumes                          1,660        11X         830         6%        2,415        16%         291%
Sugar 8eet
Vegetables                          30         0%         390         3%          380         3%          97%
Total Annual Crops C/L/SB/V    3,845          26%       3,555        24%        9,555        16%         269%
Fruit Trees  Olives                310         2%       2,570        17%        2,390        18%          93%
Figs                             0%                     0X          260         0%
total                310         2%       2,570        17%        2,650        81%         103%
Total C/L/SB/V/FT                4,155        28%       6,125        41%       12,205        19%         199%
Others (fatl. forage past.)   10,865          72%       8,895        59%        2,815       100%          32%
TOTAL UPPER LOUKKOS             15,020       100%      15,020       100%       15,020       100%         100%



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Land Use in Project Area
(ha)
Actuat                 Projected                Actual         Actual/Projected
1979         %         1989         %           1989                      %
TOTAL PROJECT
Cereals       Hard Wneat          5,980         18%       6,420        20%        3,755         12%          585
Soft W,heat         1,060         3%       1,470          5%        8,675        27%          590%
Barley              1,300         4%       1,795          6%        3,080         9X          172X
Other               2,295         rx       1,150          4%          520         2%           45%
Total              10,635        33%      10,835         33%       16,035        49%          148%
Legumes                           5,110         16%       5,415        17%        6,655         20%         123%
Sugar Beet                                                1,000         3%                                    0%
Vegetables                           480         1%         825         3%         1,850         6%         224%
Total C/L/SB/V                   16,225         50%      18,075        56%       24,540         75%         136%
Fruit Trees  Olives                 960          3%       3,220        10%        3,710         11%         115%
Figs                  150         0%          150         0%          845         3%          563%
total               1,110         3%       3,370         10%        4,555         14%         135%
Total C/L/SB/V/FT                17,335         53%      21,445        66%       29,095         89%         136%
Others (fatl. forage past.)   15,215            47%      11,105        34%        3,455         11%          31%
TOTAL PROJECT                    32,550        100%      32,550       100%       32,550        100%         100%



-3b -
ANNEX Il
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  2:   Proiected  and  Actual  Arricultural  Production
(t)
Total Production                       Additionat Production, 1989-1979
Actual  Projectecd Actual  Act./proj.           projected actual  actual/projected
1919     1989      1989    1989, %                                     %
MIDDLE LOUKKOS
Cereats  Hard Wheat              4,980    7,950    3,705          47%             2,970   (1,275)        -43%
Soft Wheat               825    2,680    8,100         302%              1,855    7,275        392%
Bartey                   470    1,300    1,835         141%                830    1,365        164%
Others                 1,820    1,445        500        35%               (375)  (1,320)       352%
Total                  8,095   13,375   14,140         106%             5,280    6,045         114%
Legumes                          2,580    5,345    3,845          72%             2,765    1,2oD          46%
Vegetables                       5,400    7,000   22,020         315%             1,600   16,620        1039%
Sugar Beet                               30,000                    0%            30,000          0         0%
Fruit Trees                      1,885    2,855    9,725         341%               970    7,840        808%
Meat     Cattle                    213       502       527       105%                289       314       109%
Sheep                     80       420       224        53%                340       144        42%
Goats                     34       105        67        64%                 71        33        46%
Total Meat               327    1,027        818        80%                700       491        70%
Milk     Cattle                    426    3,557    3,170          89%             3,131    2,744          88%
Sheep                    140        54                   0%                (86)    (140)       163%
Goats                     34       132       117        88%                 98        82        84%
Totat Milk               600    3,743    3,287          88%             3,143    2,686          85%
UPPER LOUKKOS
Cereals  Hard Wheat                600    1,515    1,325          87%                915       725        79%
Soft wheat               185               5,845                          (185)   5,660    -3059%
Barley                   555               1,480                          (555)      925      -167%
Others                    30                  60
Total                  1,370    1,515    8,650         571%                145    7,280       5021%
Legumes                           1120    1,220    2,020         166%                100      900       900%
Vegetabtes                         300    6,250    5,700          91%             5,950    5,400          91%
Sugar Beet
Fruit Trees                        775    7,750    6,970          90%             6,975    6,195          89%
Meat     Cattte                     81       165       115        70,;                84        34        40%
Sheep                      8        15        22       143%                  7        14       193%
Goats                     52       184        53        29%                133         2         1%
Total Meat               141       364       190        52%                224        49        22%
Milk     Cattle                    162       428       683       160%                266       521       196%
Sheep                      1         2                   0%                  1        (1)    -233%
Goats                     52       872       268        31%                821       217        26%
Total Mitk               215    1,302        951        73%              1,087       736        68%



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Proiected and Actual Azricultural Production
(t)
Total Production                      Additional Production, 1989-1979
Actuat  Projectec Actual  Act./proj.           projected actuat  actual/projected
1979     1989      1989    1989, %                                   %
!OTAL PROJECT
cereals  Hard Wheat             5,580    9,465    5,030         53%             3,885      (550)      -14%
Soft Wheat            1,010    2,680   13,945        520%             1,670   12,935        775%
Bartey                1,025    1,300    3,315        255%               275    2,290        833%
Others 1/             1,850    1,445        560       39%              (375)  (1,320)       352%
Total                 9,465   14,890   22,790        153%             5,425   13,325        246%
Legumes                         3,700    6,565    5,865         89%             2,865    2,165         76%
Vegetables                      5,700   13,250   27,720        209%             7,550   22,020        292%
Sugar Beet                          0   30,000         0         0%            30,000         0         0%
Fruit Trees                     2,660   10,605   16,695        157%/            7,945   14,035       177%
Meat     Cattte                   294       667      642        96%               373       348        93%
Sheep                    88       435       246       56%               347       158        45%
Goats                    86       289       120       42%                203       35        17%
Total Meat              468    1,391    1,008         72%               923       540        58%
Mitk     Cattte                   588    3,985    3,853         97/%            3,397    3,265         96%
Sheep                   141        56         0        0%                (85)    (141)      166%
Goats                    86    1,004       385        38%               918       299        33%
Total Milk              815    5,045    4,238         84%             4,230    3,422         81%



- 38 -
ANNEX III
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Crop Yields
(q/ha)
Actual    Projected            Actual
1979      1989                 1989
MIDDLE LOUKKOS
Cereats  Hard Wheat              10         14-18               14
Soft Wheat             il        17-19                18
Bartey                 8         13                   11
Other                  7-9.5     11-13
Legumes  8roadbeans (feves)  7              13-15               10.5
Chick Peas             5         9-12                 8
Flatpeas (orobe)    5.5                               8
V!egetables                      120        160                 150
Fruit Trees
OtLives                25        30-40                25
Figs                   20        25-30
UPPER LOUKKOS
Cereats  Hard Wheat                      6         10           12.5
Soft Wheat                                            13.2
Bartey                       7.4                      10.2
Other                                                 9
Legumes  Broadbeans (feves)            7.5        il            10.5
Chick Peas                  5.2          9            7.5
Other (egumes                6.4                      6



- 39 -
ANNF£ IV.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUK1OS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Livestock Population and Yields
(heads)
Actual  Projected Actual   Act./Proj.
1979      1989      1989    1989, %
MIODLE LOUKKOS
Cows                   7,105   10,780   12,000          111%
Sheep                 20,000   54,595   30,000           55%
Goats                  6,850   12,980   10,000           77X
UPPER LOUKKOS
.. ..........
Cows                   2,700    2,700    3,600          133%
Sheep                  2,000    2,000    4,800          240%
Goats                 10,300   23,000    7,000           30%
TOTAL PROJECT
Cows                   9,805   13,480   15,600          116%
Sheep                 22,000   56,595   34,800           61%
Goats                 17,150   35,980   17,000           47%
LIVESTOCK YIELDS
<kg/head)
Actual Projected Actual Act./Proj.
1979      1989      1989    1989, %
M IDD!.E LOUKKOS
.............
Moat      Cows                       30     46.5         44        95%
Sheep                       4       7.7       7.5        97%
Goats                       5         8       6.7        84%
Mitk      Cows                       60       330       267        81%
Sheep                    0.7         10
Goats                       5      10.2      16.6       163X
UPPER LOUKKOS
.............
Meat      Cows                       30     61.5       31.9        52%
Sheep                       4       7.7       4.6        60%
Goats                       5         8       7.6        95%
Mitk      Cows                       60       159    189.7        119%
Sheep                    0.7
Goats                       5        38     38.3        101%



