Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2790-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 28, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be med by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           Dirham (DH)
DH 1                                    US$0.263
US$1                                    DH 3.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                            British/US System
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA     -     Caisse Locale de Crédit Agricole (Branch Office
of CNCA)
CNCA     -     Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole (National
Agricultural Credit Bank)
FAO/CP  -     Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Programme
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
MARA     -     Ministère de l'Agriculture et de la Réforme Agraire
(Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARI
Borrower:        The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:          US$34 million.
Terms:           Amortization 22 years including four years of grace at
8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:    The project would increase incomes and productivity of very
poor subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing
the declining trends caused by soil erosion and inappropriate
farming practices. The main actions to be carried out include:
(a) in the Upper Loukkos, development and erosion control
works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares including planting of
olives, fruit trees and contour strips of forage, establishment
of permanent pasture and small scale irrigation rehabilitation
on productive lands and mechanical and biological erosion
control measures in gullies and bad lands; (b) in the Middle
Loukkos, development of field crops on 17,500 hectares;
pasture improvement on 2,300 hectares of collectively owned
land, and small irrigation improvements; (c) in the Izarene
Forest, establishment of 3,500 hectares pine plantations, and
maintenance of 3,400 hectares of existing plantations; (d)
construction of about 180 km of all weather tertiary and farm
access roads, and primary schools, health centers, rural water
supply and village markets in the Project area; and (e)
execution of a cadastral survey on about 500,000 hectares of
land. The Project investments would benefit farmers, 80
percent of whom are estimated to fall below the rural absolute
poverty threshold. The project implementation methodology,
once proven, could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe lands. Erosion control measures would
reduce the rate of siltation of the El Makhazine Reservoir
which irrigates 25,000 hectares. The major project risk
relates to the level of participation of farmers in productive
investments.  In order to minimize this.risk and to capitalize
on their commitment to improving their living conditions,
approval for project investments will be sought from elected
village representatives and individual beneficiaries will be
required to contribute their share of the investments in the
form of labor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their otficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost Estimates:                             ---- UJS$ million …
Local      Foreign       Total
Farm investments                                0.8          2.1          2.9
Soil conservation investments                   0.8          0.4          1.2
Communal pasture improvement                    1.5          0.5          2.0
Forest plantations                              1.7          0.9          2.6
Small irrigation rehabilitation                 0.5          0.7          1.2
Erosion control works                           1.1          0.5          1.6
Road contruction and equipment                  4.4          5.1          9.5
Agricultural infrastructure                     1.8          2.0          3.8
Schools, health facilities, water points
markets                                        3.8          2.6          6.4
Subtotal                                    16.4         14.8         31.2
Establishment Costs                             4.7          3.7          8.4
Consultants and Training                        0.3          0.8          1.1
Cadastral Survey                                3.7          1.6          5.3
Subtotal                                     8.7          6.1         14.8
Project Base Cost                              25.1         20.9         46.0
Physical Contingencies                       1.7          1.5          3.2
Price Escalation                            10.2          8.2         18e4
Total Project Costs 1/                         37.0         30.6         67.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                         3.4         30.6         34.0
Government                                  24.7           -          24.7
CNCA (National Agricultural
Credit Bank)                               3.3           -          3.3
Farmers                                      5.6           -           5.6
Total _/                                    37.0         30.6         67.6
Estimated Disbursements:    --------------------US$ million --------------------
Fiscal Year                1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual                      2.8     6.6      7.4      6.0     5.2      4.2     1.8
Cumulative                  2.8     9.4    16.8    22.8    28.0    32.2    34.0
Rate of Return:       15 percent on 70 percent of costs for which benefits were
calculated.
Appraisal Report:    Staff Appraisal Report of the Loukkos Rural Development
Project No. 2871-MOR, dated April 23, 1980.
1/   Excluding farmers' labor contributed to project investments with an esti-
mated value of $6.1 million, and including taxes and duties estimated
at $6.4 million. -



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report anc. recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$34 million, to help finance
a Loukkos Rural Development Project. The loan would have a term of 22 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-
MOR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic
mission visited Morocco in February/March 1978, followed by a basic economic
mission in November 1978, and updating missions in September and December
1979. A draft basic economic report was discussed with the Government at the
end of 1979, and is due to be issued in mid-1980. Preliminary findings and
conclusions of this report and the missions are reflected in the following
paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attac,hed as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco's political system moved in the direction of a
constitutional monarchy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over
the Western Sahara issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and
national elections between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties
with platforms stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections
in the larger cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents
supported Government candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141
seats out of 264 in the National Assembly. With the Government formed in
October 1977, both the Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since
1963, and the Mouvement Populaire whose main support is in the Berber popula-
tion returned to power. The Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare
and implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives set
out in the 1973-77 Development Plan. A new Cabinet formed in March 1979 is
pursuing the same policies.
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly unbal-
anced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. The rapid growth of investments and
imports which occurred in 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues had reached
1/   This Part is identical to paragraphs 2 to 16 of the President's Report
No. P-2756-MOR on a Loan for a Petroleum Exploration Project, dated
March 27, 1980.



- 2 -
an alL-time high, continued in 1976-77, while the world demand for Morocco's
main exports, especially phosphate, weakened. At the same time, efforts to
increase budgetary savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in
investment and military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced a
large resource gap (22 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (17 percent
of GDP). These imbalances have since been reduced, but continue to be substan-
tial (12 and 8 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1979). During this period,
Morocco resorted to external borrowing on a large scale. Gross disbursements
on public medium and long term loans rose to about $1.3 billion in 1977, as
compared to $600-$700 million annually in 1975-76, and less than $300 million
a year in the early 1970s. This substantial increase was achieved mainly
through increases in borrowing from Arab and commercial sources. Since then,
the level of external public borrowing, in particular from commercial banks,
has been curtailed to about $1 billion annually in an effort to moderate the
growth of debt service payments. On the domestic side, monetary expansion,
though it remained rapid, abated somewhat in 1979, reflecting reduced Treasury
borrowing in that year. Consumer prices rose 9.7 percent in 1978 and 8.3
percent in 1979.
5.        The Government has now succeeded in regaining a measure of control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. This was achieved through budgetary
austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint in current
spending and some tax increases. Public investment was reduced by nearly 40
percent in 1978 and continued to be severely restrained in 1979. In addition,
in 1979, government revenue increased nearly 20 percent with a set of emergency
tax measures adopted at midyear. Finally, import restrictions and controls on
private credit were applied in 1978 and intensified in 1979. The impact of
these policies was a significant deceleration of growth. In 1978, a good
agricultural crop helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in industry
and construction largely resulting from the public investment cuts. In 1979,
there was some recovery of activity in the secondary sector, particularly
mining. Overall, GDP grew by about 3 percent a year in 1978 and 1979, against
7 percent in 1973-77.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gap and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives were to reduce the
budget and current balance of payments deficits and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially insofar as these benefit the neediest popu-
lation groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria was to be postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth
in the private sector were to be strengthened.
7.        The financial stringency required to rebalance the economy has
limited the scope for stepping up social programs in the past two years and
the Government is anxious to resume the more dynamic social policy stance



- 3 -
which characterized Moroccan development during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation
of the 1981-85 Plan has begun and attention is being given to long-term reforms
which are needed if a resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is
to be achieved.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I assume sharp structural
adjustments to keep the economy on a financially viable growth path over the
long run, and also reflect the desire to maintain adequate GDP and employment
growth during the stabilization period, and to achieve further progress to-
wards the country's social objectives.  The projections suggest that invest-
ment would have to be restrained and GDP growth would remain modest for the
next several years. During this period, Morocco will need substantial capital
transfers from abroad on terms as favorable as possible to sustain project
investment and GDP growth at 3 to 4 percent per year. After the required
adjustment has been made, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.        Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic
savings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, to permit some real expansion of original
investment programs, and to undertake large capital-intensive projects geared
to import substitution (in particular for sugar, chemicals, shipping and
steel). Thus the GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment
rose to nearly 32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972.
In the process, Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects
not only in traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution
industries and physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult
sectors such as rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and
socially-oriented programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve
the investment levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints
being domestic savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings. Successful efforts to raise public revenues were offset by increases
in current government spending, particularly for education and health, as
well as for price subsidies and defense. Tax reform measures and unpopular
price policy decisions, such as reduction of subsidies to urban consumers,
farmers and industrial investors, will be required to increase public savings.
Interest rate adjustments to reflect changes in the rate of domestic price
inflation would also be called for.
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 4 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions such as textiles, export production
and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not aggres-
sively sought. Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC, especially



-4-
France. Morocco would have considerable export potential if only products and
markets were diversified. Programs designed to boost foreign exchange earn-
ings are now under preparation particularly for phosphate and its derivatives,
fresh and processed foodstuffs, and tourism.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-retiurn projects will have
to continue, Morocco should delay or shift away from highly capital-intensive,
import substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for
physical infrastructure. A changed investment pattern should reduce the
external resource gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at
lower investment and import costs than in recent years. This would call for
improvements in policy planning and investment programning. The 1978-80 Plan
started implementing a new industrial investment strategy, which should
facilitate better investment selection.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities and a decline in
real consumption by the weaker sections of Morocco's population. As a major
objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends. The Government's
strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of employment creation;
(ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and (iii) specific invest-
ment programs to benefit the least favored population groups.
14.       Some progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed
by increased expenditures for social sectors (from 5 piercent of GDP in 1972
to 8 percent in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco may not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors; some cuts were made in 1978 as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.
External Debt and Debt Service
15.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 18 to 11
years and average interest rose from 5.2 to 7.7 percent between 1974 and 1978.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978.  From
the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly to an esti-
mated $5.2 billion (disbursed only) by December 1979. 1/ In 1979 debt service
1/   A recent debt mission has revised this estimate to about $6 billion.  The
new estimate for debt service in 1979 has been increased to about $800
million.



- 5 -
amounted to $750 million (nearly 22 percent of total exports of goods and
services, including workers' remittances). Als a result of recent and pro-
jected borrowings, debt and debt service may be expected to increase further
in the years immediately ahead, with the debt service ratio reaching 24 to 25
percent in 1980-85, but declining progressively thereafter. The country's net
foreign assets would remain at a relatively low level. Because of the growing
burden of debt service, external debt management has become more restrictive
and selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will
have to continue this policy over the next few years. Additional commercial
borrowing should be limited, and efforts should be continued to seek loans
on softer terms. Overall, external borrowing needs would remain sizeable in
1980-85, ranging between $1 and 1.5 billion. However, in view of the deter-
mined effort being made by the Government to regain control of domestic demand
and with good long term prospects for exports and, in particular, assured
sales of phosphate rock and derivatives, Morocco continues to be creditworthy
for further Bank lending.
16.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $286 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and to
$862 million in 1977, dropping to $434 million in 1978. Major sources of aid
were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group.  At
the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 8.4 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 10
percent in 1978. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 17 percent and 14 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 46 projects, financing
a total of $1,437.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $952 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits, totalling $50 million,
have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for $25
million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $42.9 million ($40.8 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, and notes
on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays in
project implementation have been caused by management difficulties; however,
overall performance in project execution has been improving and remains satis-
factory. Total disbursements as of March 31, 1980, amounted to 70 percent of
original appraisal forecasts, and 73 percent of revised forecasts.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 35 and 25 percent respectively
of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (12 percent),
education (11 percent), roads (7 percent), tourism (5 percent), energy (4
percent) and urban development (b percent). While limited as regards the
transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to



- 6 -
3.2 percent of total fixed :investment during the 1973--77 Plan period), the
main objectives of Bank lending in the early years of Bank operations in
Morocco were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide tech-
nical assistance especially for project preparation, and increase productive
capacity, in order to improve the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, over the last few years, greater
emphasis has been given to preparing projects that support the Government's
policy of fostering social development and improving income distribution.  An
increasing share of Bank Group lending is being devoted to projects directly
or indirectly developing the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural
income groups and meeting their basic needs.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit, agroindustries and, starting in FY1975, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to supporting small farmers
and shepherds and the development of rainfed areas. The Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly addresses these objec-
tives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The proposed project woÙld
extend support of these objectives to the less favorably endowed Loukkos
through the financing of investments for agricultural development, erosion
control, forestry and livestock. It would have a significant poverty impact
and address major issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely populated
but poorly endowed mountainous regions. Continued Bank support of rainfed
agriculture is expected to be provided through an extensive livestock project
in central Morocco and an integrated rural development project in the Khemisset
province, both under preparation. A fourth line of credit to the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) and a loan providing investment and credit for
vegetable production and marketing, particularly for export, were approved in
FY1979 and FY1980, respectively. Further lending to CNCA is envisaged.
21.       In the transportation sector, a Third Highway Project has recently
been approved. It would help the Government protect its past investments in
the road network by bringing into operation a rational system of road main-
tenance and by initiating a long-term program of pavement resurfacing and
strengthening.
22.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to the Banque Nationale pour le Develop-
pement Economique which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-scale
industry component which led to the recently approved Integrated Project for
Small Scale Industry Development. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in 1978
will help increase Morocco's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending for
industry through the BNDE is contemplated as well as lending for industrial
estates and preparation has begun on a project to assist Morocco's artisanal
and small scale miners. A fourth line of credit to the Credit Immobilier et
Hotelier for tourism development has recently been appraised.



- 7 -
23.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of two loans for water
supply, two loans for power generation, a loan for village electrification
and an engineering loan for the preparation of a sewerage project for Casa-
blanca. A third water supply project, designed to provide access to safe
water for small towns and semi-rural areas as well as for low-income popula-
tion in the larger cities, is under preparation.
24.       In order to reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the
Moroccan economy, a project has recently been approved that would contribute
to the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum potential.
25.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,
and to expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on
technical education was approved in FY1979 and a fifth project, focusing on
technical training and research, teacher training and rural primary school
facilities, is scheduled for appraisal shortly.
26.       The Rabat Urban Project (FY1978) was the first Bank-financed project
in Morocco's urban sector. A follow-up project to support the Government's
program for slum upgradÎng and urban development through the provision of
basic infrastructure, housing and social services and the creation of employ-
ment opportunities in Meknes and Kenitra has recently been appraised.
27.       A family health project is under preparation with the Ministry
of Public Health as a first phase of the Government's program to extend
basic health services, particularly in rural areas, including improvements
in nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning programs, as
well as providing support to the Ministry of Public Health in planning and
administering its programs.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
28.       Agricultural Sector Background.  About 63 percent of Morocco's
population of 18 million live in rural areas. Since 1970, population growth
in the rural sector has averaged 1.8 percent per annum compared with 2.8
percent growth overall, reflecting rural-urban migration. In 1977, agri-
culture contributed about 14 percent of GDP, employed about 40 percent of
the labor force, and accounted for about 33 percent of total exports--a
decline from figures for the early 1970s largely as a result of increased
phosphate production and exports. Out of a total land area of 50 million
hectares, 7.4 million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping and 20
million are in semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for grazing and forestry.
About 5.8 million hectares are cultivated each year, with 4.5 million in
cereals, 500,000 in pulses, 400,000 in fruit trees, 140,000 in vegetables,
60,000 in sugar beet, and the remainder in oilseeds, cotton and forage crops.



Most of Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by traditional agricultural
practices which result in low crop yields and low livestock productivity. In
1977 permanent irrigation covered 690,000 hectares.
29.       Since 1965 agricultural output grew on average 2.4 percent per
annum, with wide annual fluctuations due to climatic conditions. This growth
was below the increase in demand for foodstuffs caused by rapid urbanization
and by income and population growth. The value of food imports increased on
an average of 21 percent annually, while the value of food exports grew at 6
percent per annum. A generally adequate food supply was maintained by ex-
panding agricultural imports and some switching of exportables to domestic
consumption. However, increasing population pressures on cultivable land have
led in some rural areas to a decline in per capita consumption levels and some
nutritional deficiencies. Growth of output has been greatest for products for
which the introduction of modern farming techniques has been accepted by
farmers and prices set at attractive levels: sugar Ibeet, sugar cane, milk and
vegetables for processing. For other crops such as cereals and pulses where
the Government has not yet been successful in modernizing farming practices,
and for crops for which prices have been pegged at insufficiently remunerative
levels--oilseeds, cotton, maize--the Government has met with limited success.
30.       The Government's objectives in agriculture are:  (i) to restore a
high degree of agricultural self-sufficiency; (ii) to maximize agriculture's
contribution to the balancie of payments by fostering export and import sub-
stituting production; and (iii) to improve living conditions of the poorer
segments of the rural population and reduce inequalities in income distribu-
tion by increasing their productivity and generating employment opportunities.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Government recognizes the need to
allocate a larger share of government resources to support the rainfed agricul-
ture and extensive livestock activities practiced by the majority of Morocco's
rural poor. The 1978-80 Interim Plan allocated to agriculture $963 million or
18 percent of planned investment, approximately the same percentage as during
the 1973-77 Plan period. However, because of the priority given to complete
ongoing projects, mostly irrigation projects with considerable sunk costs, an
intersectoral allocation of investments reflecting average disbursements
during 1973-77 was retained: about 57 percent for irrigation, 16 percent for
extension and rural development and about 6 percent each for livestock and for
forestry and soil conservation. A further $300 million equivalent would be
lent for farm investment by the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA).
31.       Agricultural Sector Issues.  About 40 percent of the rural labor
force is partly or fully unemployed, and about 45 percent of farm families is
close to or below the estimated absolute rural poverty threshold ($200 per
capita in 1978). Despite a rise in the real average rural per capita income,
there is evidence that population pressures have led to a decline in per
capita income in mountain, forest, and arid areas where neither employment
opportunities nor emigration to other parts of Morocco or abroad increased.
Over the last four years, the Government has increasingly sought to reach the
rural poor through its agricultural projects. Among the recent agricultural
projects supported by the Bank, the two Doukkala Irrigation, the Fes-Karia-
Tissa Agricultural Development and the Fourth Agricultural Credit (CNCA IV)



projects were designed to have a significant impact on the productivity and
incormes of smaLl farmers, and the recently approved Vegetable Production and
Marketing project is expected to lead to a significant amount of rural on-farm
and off-farm employment generation at a low cost per job created. The proposed
project will mark the Bank's first involvement in developing Morocco's agricul-
tural and livestock potential in the poorer and less favorably endowed regions.
Preparatory work is progressing on a number of rainfed agriculture and exten-
sive livestock projects. Programs to support small scale and community
projects are also being prepared to promote economic and social development
in Less developed areas.
32.       Livestock is a major activity, contributing about 36 percent to
agricultural GDP. It has a very important place for small farmers both as a
source of protein and as an instrument for wealth accumulation or temporary
savings:  about 63 percent of cattle and 46 percent of sheep are owned by the
landless and farmers with less than 5 hectares of land. Morocco has a long
tradition of extensive livestock raising on range and forest lands totalling
some 20 million hectares, mostly collectively owned and grazed. It is esti-
mated that these lands produce about two thirds of the 14 billion feed units
consumed. However, livestock yields are low and declining due to overgrazing,
the absence of range management and poor animal husbandry. These difficulties
are accentuated by population pressures on land that have led to an erosion of
transhumance patterns and increased use of grazing lands for cropping purposes.
The Government has recognized the need to reverse these trends and to attach a
higher priority to develop the potential of grazing lands. In rainfed areas
livestock has been a traditional adjunct to crop cultivation (stubble and
fallow grazing). The proposed project includes the upgrading of 2,300 hectares
of collective grazing lands and the extension of improved herd management
practices. It would also develop forage production on mountainous, eroding
and forest as well as agricultural lands. A revised implementation methodology
directly relevant to the large number of future pastoral improvement projects,
including a livestock and forestry project in the Middle Atlas mountains under
preparation for Bank financing, will be applied under the proposed project.
33.       Morocco's natural forests are extensive, covering some 5 million
hectares. In addition to the lumber and firewood they provide, these forests
provide forage material that plays a major role in sustaining livestock during
periods when the grazing lands are unproductive.  However, natural forests
are being rapidly degraded as population pressures drive the local population
to seek additional cultivable and grazirng lands. As a result, increasingly
sloping areas are stripped of their vegetative cover and cropped in grains
until the soils are exhausted or carried. away by erosion. This process is
aggravated by inappropriate farming methods. The proposed project will intro-
duce soil conservation measures to preserve the potential of both agricultural
and forest lands.
34.       Agricultural research is excessively theoretical and has developed
in isolation from farm profitability considerations or production priorities.
The extension service is encumbered with administrative tasks and employs
agents with little practical farming experience. It also lacks organization,
materials, and a systematic method for extension, particularly in rainfed



- 10 -
areas.  These issues are addressed through the Bank supported Fes-Karia-Tissa
Project which seeks to divest the extension agents of all regulatory and most
administrative tasks and to concentrate their efforts on forming service
cooperatives through which extension advice and inputs can be channelled.
The project provides for practical training of agents and, in addition, seeks
to develop the extension agents' role in farmers' needs and revenue potential
as a basis for establishing credit eligibility criteria. While the Loukkos
project area, because of its more limited agriculturall potential and more
difficult ecology, does not lend itself to a replication of the Fes-Karia-
Tissa model, the proposed project would seek to incorporate the relevant
experience gained within the existing structure of ag;ricultural services, use
the training programs developed, and introduce a multidisciplinary and farmer
oriented approach to eXtension.
35.       Land distribution is relatively skewed:  about 75 percent of farm
families own 5 hectares or less, accounting for 25 percent of agricultural
land. These farms are for the most part below an economically viable size and
suffer from excessive fragmentation: Morocco's 1.9 million farms are divided
into 11.6 million parcels. Absentee landlord and tenancy arrangements afford
tenants little security and consequently no incentive to improve the land.
With a few exceptions, tenants are also ineligible to receive agricultural
credit. A number of land reform measures are currently under study or being
carried out on an experimental basis. Among the Bank supported operations,
the Meknes project includes a trial program for land consolidation on private
land and for the creation of viable holdings on collective lands. Although
the small size of holdings and land fragmentation are issues constraining
agricultural production in the proposed project area, the proposed imple-
mentation arrangements would seek to mitigate these problems by working with
cooperatives and village councils in carrying out the planned investments.
However, in the longer run, land tenure patterns will have to be rationalized
to a greater degree if further gains in productivity are to be achieved. In
order to obtain a better understanding of these patterns, the Government now
attaches a high priority to the execution of a national cadastral survey of
all agricultural lands as a basis for a land register. A first tranche of
Morocco's program in rainfed areas would be financed under the proposed
project.
36.       Other agricultural sector issues addressed by the proposed project
include the need to reinforce the Ministry of Agriculture's sectoral planning
and programming capacity and a review of Morocco's Agricultural Investment
Code introduced in 1969. Other issues not specifically addressed by the
proposed project include: a development of Morocco's agricultural exports and
a review of its agricultural pricing policies and subsidies, agricultural
taxation, and savings mobilization in the rural sector. The first issue is
partially addressed through the recently approved Vegetable Production and
Marketing Project which sets out a program for developing Morocco's exports of
off-season vegetables. The latter issues are all major topics of the Bank's
on-going economic and sector dialogue with the Government. They are analyzed
in greater depth in the Report: Morocco - Agricultural Sector Memorandum that
is being circulated concurrently to the Executive Directors.



l~~~~~~~~~~~~-I
37.       Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy. Over recent years, the Bank's
strategy in the gricultural sector has supported the Government's objectives
of increasing economic agricultural production to meet basic food needs and to
work towards agricultural self-sufficiency, while placing, for social reasons,
an increased emphasis on developing rainfed areas, where untapped potential
exists. In particular, actions to benefit the rural poor target group have
been pursued. The Bank strategy also recognizes the need to continue support-
ing highly productive export oriented projects and agricultural credit which
finances a large percentage of directly productive farm and agroindustrial
investments. Support for irrigation, particularly for rehabilitation and
development of small and medium scale irrigation infrastructure, is also
envisaged. At the request of the Government, technical assistance will also
be provided to support ongoing efforts to build up a project monitoring and
evaluation unit in the Ministry of Agriculture (MARA), to review the 1969
Agricultural Investment Code and to develop a food strategy.
38.       Performance Under Previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects.
Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to date 13
projects have been undertaken and supported by $401 million in Bank/IDA funds
($24 million in IDA credits). They include five irrigation projects: Sidi
Slimane (FY75, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala
I (FY76) and Doukkala II (FY77); four Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66,
FY73, FY77 and FY79); an Agroindustries and Flood Control Project (Sebou Il,
FY74); a Vegetable Production and Marketing Project (FY80); and two Agricultural
Development Projects focussing on rainfed agriculture in the Meknes (FY75) and
Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY78) areas. Project performance to date is generally satis-
factory although irrigation projects suffered initially from poor coordination
between and within participating Ministries which resulted in delays in the
construction and in acquisition of irrigation equipment. Some delays also
occurred in executing the Doukkala Il Irrigation Project as a result of the
budgetary restraint measures adopted in 1978. Funding for this project was
again made available in 1980 and it should be completed with a delay of less
than 2 years. For the Meknes Project the major issues have been the diffi-
culties in establishing and delays in executing the land redistribution
program, as well as insufficient coordination between the Project Authority
and the Central Government. Measures to improve project performance in these
areas are underway.
39.       The First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66 and FY76)
have been audited by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The report
on the first project attributed the project's mixed results principally to
CNCA's shortage of qualified staff and Government's interference in CNCA's
operations by directing it to lend to small farmers and by dissolving a State
company receiving Bank financing without prior consultation with the Bank.
It also reported that the most important achievement was the institutional
development that took place. In its report on the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, OED noted some discrepancies between project execution and the
English language legal documents. It also calculated an economic rate of
return to the project of about 20 percent as compared to an appraisal estimate
of 18 percent. However, it noted that the return might have been higher had
Morocco enjoyed a more effective national agricultural extension service.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       Background.  Tt has long been recognized that the poor and rela-
tiveiv densely populated Riif mountains offered agricultural potential that
was only poorly exploited. A number of development efforts focussing on soil
conservation and forestry development such as the FAO/CP supported DERRO
program (a mountain development program) have been implemented during the last
15 years.  Among the Rif's river basins, treating the rapidly eroding Loukkos
river basin became a priority in 1973 following the decision to build the El
Makazine Dam to irrigate sotie 25,000 hectares in the Loukkos plain. Prepara-
tion of an erosion control master plan was financed under a FAO/UNDP project
and completed in 1975. An erosion control project in the Upper Loukkos area
was identified in November L975 by an FAO/CP mission which, however, pointed
out the need for trials to confirm the proposed technological packages. While
these trials were being carried out, the Government requested further assis-
tance from FAO and the Bank to reorient the project towards developing the
agricultural potential in the catchment area so that the project might serve
as a model for developing some 2 million hectares of mountain and forest
lands. This request led to the decisions to include two other components
typical of mountain conditions: the Izarene forest where an industrial
reforestation program had been initiated, and the Middle Loukkos, a foothill
area upstream of the dam. UNDP financing was obtainedl in 1978 for a team of
FAO experts and Moroccan nationals who completed project preparation in mid
1979. A Bank appraisal mission visited Morocco in October 1979. Negotia-
tions for the proposed Loan were held in Washington from April 14 to 18, 1980.
The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Belkoura of the Prime Minister's
Office. An appraisal report entitled "Morocco: Loukkos Agricultural Develop-
ment Project" (No. 2871-MOR), dated April 23, 1980 is being distributed
separately. The main features of the loan and project are summarized in the
Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
41.       The project area covers about 59,000 hectares of the Loukkos water-
shed (180,000 hectares) (Map No. 14879R). It is typical of the difficult
conditions found in Morocco's mountainous regions:  in the Upper Loukkos and
Izarene sub-project areas, land is steeply sloping with thin, friable clay
and marl soils that offer limited agricultural potential--only 8 percent of
the lands in the Upper Loukkos are suitable for annual cropping--, and that
are highly subject to erosion once the dense soil cover is removed. Ecological
and climatic considerations would indicate forestry and limited grazing as the
most suitable uses for these lands. However, population pressures have led to
40 percent of this land havÏng been cleared for cropping purposes. Over a
third of these lands have s:ince degenerated into rough grazing and badlands.
The Middle Loukkos is more richly endowed: about 70 percent of the land is
suitable for annual crops provided appropriate farming and soil conservation
practices are followed. Almost all the population of about 40,000 living
in the project area will benefit from the proposed project. They are among the
poorest in Morocco: it is estimated that 80 percent of the households have
annual incomes below the rural absolute per capita poverty threshold of about
$200. Families are large with an average of seven surviving children per
household.  Total population in the area has only grown slowly (1 percent per
annum) due to outmigration.



13 
42.       In the Upper Loukkos, over 99 percent of the land is privately
owned.  The average size of holdings is 8.7 ha which includes an average of
5.2 ha of rough grazÎng and unproductive eroded lands. A high degree of
fragmentation prevails resulting in individual plots of a small size. In the
Middle Loukkos, about half the land is privately owned, a quarter collectively
owned (mostly rangelands), with the remainder belonging to the State and to
religious foundations. The average size of privately owned holdings is 5.9
ha. Sixty percent of farms are smaller than 3 hectares. The Izarene forest
is entirely located on State owned lands. Some 8,000 inhabitants in this area
depend on forestry activities and limited grazing rights for their livelihood.
Subsistence agriculture is practiced throughout the project area and supple-
mented by livestock activities. The road infrastructure is inadequate and
much of the project area is inaccessible during the rainy winter months.
Existing social infrastructure is below national standards for rural areas.
43.       Project Objectives and Description.  The major objective of the
project is-to increase the incomes and productivity of farmers living within
the Loukkos River basin, thereby reversing declining production trends caused
by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. The proposed project
will build on agricultural and livestock technologies that have been success-
fully tested both in the project area and elsewhere in Morocco. It will
introduce novel implementation methodologies that are better adapted to the
poverty conditions prevailing in mountain zones. These seek to mobilize the
commitment and participation of beneficiaries to the greatest extent and to
reduce Government outlays as far as possible (see para. 54). At the orga-
nizational level, the project will be built around a closer coordination of
extension efforts between the provincial services in charge of agricultural,
irrigation, livestock and forestry development. It will also strengthen
basic and social infrastructure, finance a slice of the national cadastre
program as a basis for addressing land tenure issues and facilitating access
to agricultural credit, and provide consultants for priority studies.
44.       The proposed project will consist of the following parts:
(a) Upper Loukkos: erosion control works; field, tree crop and live-
stock development; irrigation rehabilitation; strengthening of the
infrastructure and staffing of agricultural support services; and
construction and equipment of a goat farm.
(b) Middle Loukkos: field crop and livestock development; range
improvement; irrigation rehabilitation; strengthening of the infra-
structure and staffing of agricultural support services; and con-
struction and equipment of a sheep farm and cattle insemination
centers.
(c) Izarene forest: land clearing; creation and maintenance of pine
plantations; and a forestry research program.
(d) Infrastructure: construction of roads, schools and dispensaries as
well as rehabilitation of water points and village markets.



- 14 -
(e)  Training and consultants for agricultural support services.
(f)  Cadastral Survey:  aerial and ground mapping.
(g)  Agricultural Credit:  short-, medium- and long-term credit require-
ments as well a§ strengthening of infrastructure as required by
development of demand.
(h)  Project Monitoring and Evaluation:  creation of a project monitoring
and evaluation system for the project and support for a nationwide
project monitoring and evaluation unit in M4ARA.
(i)  Study of the Agricultural Investment Code to review its impact since
1969 and propose improvements.
45.       In the Upper Loukkos, soil conservation and agricultural development
programs will be undertaken on some 15,000 hectares of steeply sloping lands
to transform the present ecologically destructive farming system into one that
is sustainable in the long run, while meeting the subsistence food needs of
the existing population. This will be achieved through the implementation of
detailed development programs prepared on a subcatchment basis and involving a
delicate balance between soil conservation and agricultural production con-
siderations. These would consist of: (i) establishment of firewood aad
forage plants on about 2,800 hectares of badly eroded lands; (ii) construction
of stone terraces on about 1,500 hectares of cultivated land and some 3,500
stone check dams in rapidly eroding gullies; (iii) establishment of contour
strips of pasture and forage bushes on about 1,050 hectares of steeply sloping
cultivated lands and of permanent pasture on about 300 hectares of severely
eroded land; (iv) establishment of olive and fruit trees on about 2,250
hectares of cultivated lands; (v) rehabilitation of simple gravity irrigation
systems on about 400 hectares; (vi) development of field crop on about 5,000
hectares; (vii) construction and equipment of a goat farm to introduce dairy
goats; and (viii) construction of about 73 km of farm access tracks and
provision of track construction and maintenance equipment. In addition, the
project will include construction of housing and offices and provision of
equipment and vehicles for agricultural support staff. Because of the poverty
characteristics of the area, the collective nature of the soil conservation
programs and the absence of land registration, limited recourse to credit is
anticipated.
46.       In the Middle Loukkos, the project will include:  (i) development
of field crops on about 17,500 hectares, including establishment of 1,000
hectares of sugar beet, and the introduction of contour farming; (ii) range
development on about 2,300 hectares of collectively owned grazing lands
through shrub clearance, reseeding and fertilization; (iii) improvement of
range and animal husbandry management practices; (iv) rehabilitation of
simple gravity irrigation on about 250 hectares; and (v) construction and
equipment of a sheep farm to introduce improved breeds and extend modern
husbandry practices and of eight cattle insemination centers. The project
would also include construction of housing and offices and provision of
equipment and vehicles for agricultural support staff who will have a major
role to play in introducing and extending new farming practices to conserve



- 15 -
soil, te increase crop and forage production, including use of mechanized hay
and silage making to increase forage availability, and to improve animal
husbandry practices. Most of the on-farm investments (except range improve-
ment) will be financed by agricultural credit. The proposed project also
seeks to develop a model for establishing improved permanent pasture on about
2,300 hectares of collectively owned range lands and to introduce appropriate
range and herd management practices, which, if successful, could be extended
to some 2 million hectares of collectively owned rangelands.
47.       Under the Izarene component some 3,500 hectares of rough mountain
lands will be cleared and planted to pines. Where the density of oak is
sufficient to make cork stripping and charcoal burning efficient, forest
blocks will be auctioned and entirely cleared of vegetation; on the remaining
lands, estimated at about 850 hectares, the forestry department will carry out
mechanical clearance on a trial basis. The proposed project also includes the
maintenance of some 3,400 hectares of young pine plantations and a strengthen-
ing of the protection of the entire sub-project area against stock grazing,
illegal entry and fire. Some 25 km of forest tracks will be opened and main-
tained with equipment to be provided under the project. In addition, 120
hectares of research plantations will be established to confirm the appli-
cability of new plantation and maintenance techniques developed in recent
years in the Mediterranean basin.
48.       The project would also provide for training of extension agents and
technical specialists called to work in the project area. New extension staff
will be trained at the Sahel Boutahar school located about 150 km east of the
project area under an ongoing program that includes a year of practical work
and is financed under the Bank supported Fes-Karia-Tissa project. On-the-job
training programs will also be organized by technical specialists operating in
the project area. In addition twelve overseas traineeships will be provided
to foresters to study recently introduced forestry techniques in other Mediter-
ranean countries and twelve overseas traineeships for the livestock staff who
will be called te handle the introduction of dairy goats and range improvement
and management programs. The proposed project also provides funds to allow
the Project Director to hire consultants for a total of 48 man-months to
provide specialized technical and training services, at an average cost of
$9,500 per man-month.
49.       The proposed project will reinforce the basic and social infrastruc-
ture within the project area. The existing road network will be strengthened
and expanded through the construction of about 68 km of tertiary roads and
54 km of unpaved, all weather access roads in the Middle Loukkos as well as
the construction of 58 km of unpaved, all weather access roads in the Upper
Loukkos. This program was determined on the basis of an economic analysis of
traffic patterns, taking into account the anticipated agricultural production
to be achieved under the project. The equipment necessary to maintain these
roads will also be provided. The education infrastructure will be reinforced
through the construction of buildings and staff housing and the equipment and
staffing of Il new schools, as well as the extension of 5 existing schools,
for a total of about 50 new classrooms. Health facilities will be strength-
ened through the construction, equipment and staffing of a new health center,



- 16 -
2 new dispensaries, and 3 nurses lodgings. In addition, some 40 water points
would be improved and 3 village markets developed through the construction
of buildings, stores, a small slaughterhouse, and connection to the pipe water
system. The above investments figure among the highest priority investments
in the eyes of the local inhabitants and would bring the infrastructure to
national standards for rural areas.
50.       With the exception of urban areas, propercties which at some time
belonged to foreigners and lands lying within the irrigation cowmand areas
(about 1 million hectares), most agricultural land in Morocco is still held
under customary law and niot officially registered. As a result, the Govern-
ment lacks the basis for addressing a number of lanid tenure issues, particu-
larly land fragmentation.. Also, since the proportion of farmers possessing
title to their land is low, access to agricultural credit, especially by small
farmers, is constrained. A ten year program to carry out a national cadastral
survey on the remaining 6 million hectares of arable land, most of it rainfed,
has been prepared.  However, as part of the Governient's austerity program,
implementation of this program was delayed in 1978 to 1981. in the meantime,
the Government reassessed the priority of this program and submitted a request
for Bank assistance in 1979. The proposed project will support aerial and
ground surveys on about 500,000 hectares. During negotiations agreement was
reached to give priority to the Middle Loukkos area. Further areas which
would be eligible for Bank financing will be agreed upon in advance between
the Bank and the Government (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07) and an understand-
ing was reached to give priority to areas in which Bank supported agricultural
development projects are under execution or preparation. The progress of
Morocco's overall cadastral survey will be reviewed annually by the Bank.
51.       Other project components include the provision of short, medium and
long term agricultural credit to farmers in the project area by CNCA, the
national agricultural credit institution, according to its standard criteria
that were reviewed for the recently approved Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project and found satisfactory. Since the incremental credit requirements are
small compared to CNCA's national program, no special provisions or financing
are included under the proposed project. CNCA medium- and long-term loans to
farmers in the Project area would be eligible for Bank financing under the
Fourth Agriculture Credit Project. The establishment of a project monitoring
and evaluation unit for the proposed project in the province agricultural
directorate of Chaouen and a strengthening of the central project monitoring
and evaluation unit of th,s Ministry of Agriculture iwill be undertaken under
the proposed project.  in addition support will be given to the MARA's ongoing
study to evaluate the impact of the Agricultural Investment Code since its
introduction in 1969. Consultants up to a total of 12 man-months each will be
provided at an average cost of $9,500 per man-month to MARA to help carry out
these latter two activities.
52.       Project implementation.  The proposed project will be implemented
over a 6 year period commencing in 1980. MARA will have primary responsibility
for project execution and the Province Director of Agriculture for the province
of Chaouen will serve as Project Director. MARA's provincial services in
Chaouen will execute the agricultural, water supply, and market rehabilitation
components. Its directorate of land registration and topographic mapping
will be responsible for the cadastral survey and its directorate for Planning
and Economic Affairs will carry out the central project monitoring and evalua-
tion and the study of the Agricultural Investment Code. The Ministries of



- 17 -
Public Works, Education and Public Health through their provincial delegations
will be responsible for the roads, the education and public health components
respectively. CNCA will provide agricultural credit according to lending
criteria applicable to the region. The Ministry of the Interior will have an
important consultative role to play as the guardian of the collective lands.
A National Project Coordinating Committee consisting of representatives of all
the Mînistries involved and an Interprovincial Project Committee consisting of
the Governors of the Chaouen, Kenitra and Tetouan Provinces and provincial
representatives of aLl the agencies involved will meet at least once every six
months and three months respectively to coordinate project execution (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).
53.       In order to facilitate project execution, MARA has placed the entire
Middle Loukkos sub-project area under the jurisdiction of the Chaouen Provin-
cial Directorate for Agriculture, even though a part of this area lies in the
neighboring Province of Kenitra. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the provincial directors for crop development, livestock, forestry and
rural engineering would assume their duties by September 30, 1980 and that
their services would be fully staffed with competent and experienced personnel
by June 30, 1982, except for the Chaouen forestry service which would be fully
staffed by December 31, 1980 (Loan Agreemient, Section 3.01(d). The agricul-
tural support services will operate out of two work-centers (Centre de
Travaux) to be established at Asjene for the Middle Loukkos area and at
Mokrisset for the Upper Loukkos area. Three sub-centers (Sous-Centre de
Travaux) located at Hammara, Es Sebt and Zeitouna will also serve the Middle
Loukkos area. In each of these centers multi-disciplinary teams of extension
agents trained in crop and livestock production, farm management and, in the
Upper Loukkos, in forestry will be created. They will be supported by special-
ists in pasture improvement, hillside farming and animal husbandry who will
operate out of the provincial headquarters. Since most of the livestock
chores are handled by the women in the household, female demonstration agents
will be integrated into these teams to advise on nutrition and care of live-
stock. In order to introduce the innovative programs proposed under the
project, the number of extension agents and technical specialists will be
increased to about 35 in the Middle Loukkos and to about 13 in the Upper
Loukkos. For the Izarene forest plantation and research programs, the Chaouen
provincial forestry service will be strengthened. Once the project is
completed, these support services will turn their attention to other areas of
the Chaouen province to introduce similar programs. The work-centers will
initially provide custom machine services to farmers and operate a farm supply
center. The transfer of these functions to private or cooperative enterprises
would be encouraged.
54.       In order to carry out the soil conservation programs in the Upper
Loukkos, a new implementation methodology will be put into practice which
takes into account the small size of farms and the low incomes and limited
repayment capacity of project beneficiaries. Rather than imposing soil
conservation measures, carrying them out under force account and requiring a
60 percent cost recovery through withholding a part of production gains, the
Goverament will seek to obtain the agreement and commitment of local popula-
tions through their elected officials to the soil conservation and agricul-
tural development programs. Once agreement reached, these officials and the
local authorities will be responsible to ensure that individual farmers comply
with the overall program for the area in which his land lies. In order to



- 18 -
increase farmers' incentives to maintain, fully exploit and eventually extend
these programs and in order to reduce initial Government outlays, farmers will
be required to contribute their labor in lieu of cost recovery for the creation
of productive soil conservation investments, includling forage bands and fruit
plantations.  They would also be responsible for their protection and mainte-
nance until full production is reached. For the project overall, the value of
this labor utilizing the minimum agricultural wage rate is expected to exceed
40 percent of total investment costs, a reasonable contribution level given
the poverty conditions of the beneficiaries. The Government will continue to
construct erosion control works such as stone terraces and check dams and
vegetation of badlands, all of which have very little or no productive value,
with budgetary funds under force account arrangements. This is justified since
most of the benefits would not accrue to the farmers on whose lands these
actions take place. The replacement of a system based on cost recovery
by one based on farmer participation will have several benefits: in addition
to reducing budgetary outlays it would greatly simplify the administration of
such development programs and dispel the tax collector image extension agents
would acquire if they were to be responsible for enforcing recovery provisions.
While the above arrangements represent a radical departure from past practices,
they are compatible with the provisions of the Moroccan Agricultural Investment
Code. The necessary legislation, including interminiisterial decrees declaring
the project area a soil conservation zone of national interest and setting out
the nature of the erosion control works and soil conservation programs as well
as the respective technical and financial obligations of the Government and
beneficiaries have been promulgated and will be maintained in effect for the
purposes of project execution (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
55.       For the range improvement programs in the Middle Loukkos sub-project
area, the Government has already promulgated a decree identifying the areas
to be improved. The execution of these works will take place under standard
conditions whereby the Government will carry out the required investments and
recover from the beneficiaries 70 percent of the investment cost over five
years by introducing a head tax on livestock grazing the improved range lands.
Assurances were obtained that this legislation will be maintained in effect
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). Assurances were obtained that MARA and the
Ministry of Interior will assist farmers and rightholders to collective lands
in organizing farming and grazing associations and cooperatives (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06). For the rehabilitation of small irrigation system, assurances
were obtained that the beneficiaries will contribute all on-farm development
costs and provide the unskilled labor requirements for rehabilitating, operating
and maintaining the common elements of the irrigation system (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.08). Although the value of this contribution in labor will vary
considerably from scheme to scheme, it is estimated to exceed 30 percent of
the total investment cost and to account for almost all the operation and
maintenance costs.
56.       The Government agencies responsible for project implementation will
maintain separate accounts for project related work. For work carried out by
force account, separate records justifying expenditures will be kept and
audited by the Ministry of Finance. MARA will be responsible for preparing
an annual progress report on project execution and for coordinating the prep-
aration of a Project Completion Report.
57.       Project Costs.  Total project costs are esitimated at $67.6 million.
This figure includes taxes estimated at $6.4 million, the incremental operating



- 19 
cost of the agricultural services during the six year establishment period
and incremental credit requirements. It excludes labor contributed by benefi-
ciaries with a value of $6.1 million at the minimum agricultural wage.
Cost estimates for civil works and equipment reflect unit rates obtained in
contracts in other projects in 1979. Physical contingencies of 10 percent and
price contingencies of 12 percent for 1979/80; 10.5 percent for 1980/81;
9 percent in 1981/82; 8 percent in 1982/83 and 7 percent thereafter were
calculated for civil works and equipment. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at $30.6 million or 45 percent of total project costs net of
taxes.
58.       Project Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of $34 million to the
Kingdom of Morocco will have a maturity of 22 years including four years of
grace, a term that is justified on project grounds. It will finance 56
percent of total project costs, net of taxes.  However, if the value of
farmers' contributed labor is included in the project costs, the Bank loan
would finance 50 percent of these costs. The Government will finance about
$24.7 million (30 percent), CNCA $3.3 million (5 percent) and farmers $5.6
million (15 percent) of the project costs as presented. The proposed Bank
loan will finance the foreign exchange component of the project and, in
addition, about $3.4 million of local currency costs which is justified
on country grounds. The &overnment will assume the foreign exchange risk.
59.       Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred since October 15,
1979 in respect of the construction of housing and provision of vehicles for
key staff needed to start project implementation and of the soil conservation
program in the Upper Loukkos, which was carried out using the implementation
techniques to be applied under the project, will be authorized in an aggregate
amount not exceeding $800,000 equivalent.
60.       Procurement will be phased over six years resulting in a large
number of contracts. Contracts for road construction amounting to $10.7
million (including contingencies) will be procured following procedures for
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Because of their phasing and dispersion, construction of housing and buildings
totalling $10.3 million, vehicles and equipment totalling $2.7 million and
aerial and ground surveying for the cadastral survey totalling $7.5 million
wïll be procured according to local procedures already determined satisfactory
to the Bank, provided individual contracts do not exceed $300,000 each for
housing, buildings and cadastral surveys and $150,000 each for vehicles and
equipment. Whenever feasible, contracts of a same nature will be bulked for
bidding purposes. For contracts in excess of these limits procurement would
be in accordance with ICB procedures. Works related to erosion control,
pasture improvement, forestry, irrigation rehabilitation, farm and forest
access tracks and market and water points rehabilitation will be undertaken
under local contract or force account arrangements depending on local condi-
tions (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. C).



- 20 -
61.       Disbursement.  Ihe proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a six
years beginning in FY1981 against 70 percent of the total cost of the con-
struction of buildings, housing, pasture improvement: and market water points
rehabilitation, cadastral surveys, roads and access tracks; 70 percent of
Government expenditures for erosion control and irrigation rehabilitation
works; and 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures or 80 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles equipment, consultants and overseas training. Esti-
mated annual and cumulative disbursement figures are given in the Loan and
Project Summary.
62.       Project Benefits and Justification.  Agricultural production in the
project area will about dcuble by the tenth year after project implementation.
Grain production will rise by about 60 percent to about 150,000 tons annually;
olives and fruit production will increase fourfold to about 105,000 tons per
annum; legume and vegetable production will double to about 65,000 tons and
6,500 tons per annum; and sugar beet production will reach 300,000 tons
annually. Project forest plantations are projected to yield about 58,000 m3
of pit props and building poles from thinnings in years 13 to 20 and about
960,000 m3 of saw logs in years 25-40. Local markets exist for all these
products and are capable of absorbing the project's incremental production.
In addition, the forest plantations will yield a large volume of fuel wood.
About 6,700 man-years of paid labor will be generated for the construction and
maintenance of erosion control works, rangeland improvement, access roads and
forestry development. A further 3,300 man-years of labor would be contributed
by farmers towards the creation of productive soil conservation investments
and irrigation rehabilitation. In addition, annual maintenance requirements
will have grown to 2,200 man-years equivalent by 1986.
63.       In the Upper Loukkos, farming patterns are fairly uniform, permitting
the use of two farm models, one with and one without a small irrigated plot.
Over a ten year period, the net farm income for an average farm without
irrigation (3.5 hectares of cultivated area and 5.2 hectares of rough grazing)
is forecast to rise from $700 to $1,750, and, for a corresponding farm with
irrigation, from $1,000 to $2,850. About 81 percent of the population have
farms totalling less than 5 hectares of cultivated area. In the Middle
Loukkos, net farm income is forecast to increase about 60 percent for small
farms of less than 3 hectares, reaching $1,300 for the typical 2 hectare farm,
about double for farms between 3 and 10 hectares, reaching $4,250 for the
typical 7 hectare farm and almost triple for larger farms. Under the present
circumstances, about 80 percent of the population in these areas have farm
incomes that place them below the rural absolute poverty threshold of $200 per
capita, equivalent to $1,375 per annum for each rural household. By the tenth
year after project execution this figure is expected to drop to 60 percent.
Overall, about 40 percent of incremental project benefits will accrue to
farmers below the poverty theshold, the proportion being 50 percent in the
Upper Loukkos and 35 percent in the Middle Loukkos. A sensitivity analysis of
the financial returns to farmers' investments yielded acceptable rates of
return under the participation conditions proposed under the project, varying
from 22 percent for the Upper Loukkos farm model without irrigation to 80
percent for the 7 and 36 hectare farm models in Middle Loukkos. This analysis
also showed that Government subsidies for non-labor inputs are necessary to
encourage small farmers who, in the absence of any subsidy, might find finan-
cial rates of return in the 15 to 25 percent range insufficient to compensate
the risk and relatively long gestation period of the fruit tree and range
improvement investments.



- 21 -
64.       The economic analysis of the project has been made not only with the
objective of analyzing the economic viability of the project per se but also
of examining the suitability of the project for replication elsewhere in
Morocco, and particularly in the Western Rif Mountains. So far as is possible,
the different components have been evaluated separately. For the proposed
project as a whole, including road investments but excluding social infrastruc-
ture (about 30 percent of total project costs) for which benefits were not
calculated, and using shadow wage and exchange rates, a combined economic rate
of return (ERR) of 15 percent was estimated. If the large labor input
(including the farmers' labor contribution) is valued at its full financial
cost, the ERR would drop to 13 percent.
65.       Turning to the subprojects, the Upper Loukkos is without doubt the
most important from the viewpoint of replicability. The base case shows an
ERR of 17 percent over 20 years. However, this rate of return includes the
benefits of the 400 hectares of irrigation land which might not be available
elsewhere in the Western Rif Mountains. Assuming that no irrigated land were
available, the ERR falls to 13 percent. In the Middle Loukkos an esti-
mated ERR of 16 percent was calculated. However, it is understated, since it
includes the full cost of two tertiary roads that would also benefit users
transiting through the project area to an extent which has not been quantified.
If costs of the tertiary roads are excluded and only farm access roads remain,
the ERR of this component would rise to 20 percent. Finally, the ERR of 10
percent calculated for the forestry subproject over 40 years does not include
erosion control benefits to downstream farmers. An analysis of the agricul-
tural components yielded an average base cost for the project as a whole of
$620 per hectare or $3150 per family. In the Upper Loukkos, the soil conserva-
tion program, including erosion control works carried out by government for
the benefit of downstream users, has a base cost of $330 per hecatre. In the
Middle Loukkos, agricultural investments average $700 per hectare or $2800 per
farm family. In conjunction with the economic analysis, these figures indicate
that the project investments could reasonably be replicated. The project as a
whole is relatively insensitive to changes in cost and benefit streams.
Assuming a 10 percent cost of capital over the life of the project, the
switching values for the project as a whole are a decrease in benefits of 19
percent or an increase in cosLs of 24 percent. For the Upper Loukkos compo-
nent taken on its own, the corresponding switching values are 30 and 44
percent respectively, for the Middle Loukkos they are 32 and 46 percent
respectively and for the Izarene they are 6 and 6 percent respectively.
66.       The major risk relates to the degree of farmer participation.  Past
erosion control projects in the Rif mountains have suffered because few
farmers maintained the erosion control works and plantations carried out by
the Government. There are good reasons for believing that the measures taken
during project preparation and the proposed implementation methodology will
lead to an avoidance of past failures. First, the project was carefully
developed over five years with the help of FAO/UNDP projects that included
successful trials in installing erosion control works and establishing fruit
tree plantations and pastures. Second, the proposed beneficiaries have shown



- 22 -
great enthusiasm for the project, partly because they feel themselves to be
involved in project decisions and implementation. Furthermore, the proposed
farmer participation condit:ions were tried out in four villages in early 1980
and readily accepted.  Third, the conditions of farMers' participation were
geared to a form and a level which the beneficiaries could readily provide
given the underemployment prevailing in the region.  In addition, the project
area was limited to those areas where the chances of success were the greatest.
It has the full support of the local administration, including the Governor
and the technical services, and it includes measures to build-up technical
assistance to farmers and to ensure access to inputs in the project area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
68.        In addition to the special features which are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following features are of
particular interest:
(a) The following events of suspension have been added, namely that any
of the following legislation shall have been materially amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and
adversely affect the project:  the implementing decrees for soil
conservation and range improvement programs, or any other legisla-
tion promulgated or enacted with respect to these aspects of the
project (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
69.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 28, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23-                                                ANNEX I
TAJLI_ 3APage  1  of  6
mROCC0 - SOCIAL. ILDICA'ORS DATA SHiET
CrOPzNcCE GCOUPS (AMUSTED    lAIGES
A- 10ST RtCENT ESTITATE) -
ARI RCULTUYAL    203  3                                M«OST R QNT      GOGSuPH;:   ENCOKE        ZINCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESIMATS /b        RtGION le   CROUP 7d G/ROU  /t
GN? PSR CAPITA (US5)                  190.0       300.0      670.0          1532.5       467.5      1097.7
SNEIRGY CON4SUMTtlOEN F APEl  PITA
(TILOGRANS oF C          "NT)       148.0      10.0       273.0           838.1       262.1       730.1
POPUtrATXO1 AND_ VTAL STATISTTCS
POPULATION,SMW-YXAR (MILLI014S~   11.6  15.I     t8.3
URiAN POPULATION (PERCENT O? TOTAL) 29.3         34.6       37.4            49.0        24.6        49,0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YZU 2000 (CILLIONS)                        34.0
STATOONAR? POPULATION (XLLIONS)                          71.0
YEUI STATIONARZ  POPULATION 1  UACEZO                  2090
POPULATION UENSlTY
FiR SQ. e.                         26.0        34.0      41.0             19.9       45.3         44.6
PR SQ. 10<. AGRICULTJRAL LANo      59.0        76.0      90.0             99.0       149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE sTRUCT=U  (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.0        47.5       46.0            45.6        45.2        41.3
L5-64 Y9S.                          53.0        48.3      52.0             51.4       51.9         53.5
65 YRS. AND A4QV!                    3.0         4.2        2.0             2.8         2.t         3.5
POPULAStON GlOrd IRATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6         2.7        2.8             3.0         2.7         2.4
RIRAN                               6.4         4.3       4.1              5.2         4.3         4.5
CRUDZ 8IRTH RATE (FER TROUSAZO)      50.0        48.0       45.0            43.7        39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RASg (PtR TEOUSAND)      21.0        17.0       13.0            13.5        11.7         9.2
cROss REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4/B       3.4        3.2             3.2         2.7         2.2
FAMILY PAWTNC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TSOUSANDS)        ..        25.1      78.0
*SERS (PERCENT 0F KURIEO WOIN)    ..            1.0        5.4              ,,        13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          116.3        98.0       67.0            90.8        99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLT Of
CALORIES (PERCENT 0F
REQUIROEZSTS)                   90.0        102.0      108.0            99.0       94.7        105.0
P9ROTEINS (GRAKS PER DAY)          43.0        64.0      70.5             63.6       54.3         64.4
OF WlICg ANIML AND PULSE           ..        14.0/b    15.6             16.0       17.4         23.5
CILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITT RATE       30.0        22.0       17.0            15.9        11.4         8.6
dEALTH
LIFE E"ECTXASCY AT BItRTE (YEARS)    47.0        52.0      55.0             53.8        54.7        60.2
tFIANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                  ..          ..         ..              .        68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        51.0       55.0            56.4       34.4         60.8
tURBAN                               ,         92.0     100.0             83.4       57.9         75.7
RURAL                                ..        28.0      25.0             34.3       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .,        29.0         ..            59.1       40.8         46.0
URSAN                                ..        75.0         ..            78.2       71.3         46.0
8URAL                                ..         4.0         *-            26.4       27.7         22.5
POPMATION PER ?fYS.CIAN           9400.0/1   12650.0   11100.0            3677.0     6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURStNG PECRON          ..      2820.0    1700.0           1730.6     1522.1       1195.4
POPUlATION FER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            680.0        660.0     710.0            577.0      726.5        453.4
UaBAN                                ..       460.0         ..              ..      272.7        253.1
RURAL                                ..      2980.0         ..              ..     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BED            ..        15.5       16.5            21.8       27.5         22.1
NOUSING
AVXRAGE SIZE OF ROUSENOLD
TOTAL                               4.8         5.5        ..              5.8        5.4          5.3
URBAN                               4.3         4.9         ..             5.5        5.2          5.2
RURAL                               5.1         5.6         ,,             6.0        5.5          5.4
AVERAGE N.1BER of PERSONS ?ER ZOOM
TOTAL                               2.2         2.4         ..              ..          .,         1.9
URB11                               2.1         2.1         ..              ..          ,.         1.6
RURAL                               2.3         2.6        -. ..                        .,         z.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICi1Y (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.0/1        ..         -             45.1       28.1         50.0
12811.14                          5s.47î       68.4      55.0             67.9       4.5.1        71.7
RURAL                              31.07i        ..         ,.              ..        9.9         17.3



- 24-                                                    AMuI I
TABLE                                                   page  2   bf  6
MOtOCCco - SOCIAL INDICA_ORS CAIA SREET
REFE9ECE CROUPS (AflDSTED A5!RACES
HOROCCO                           - YOS  RCENT BS^1TE-
SA1E         SALE      XEXT ;iG:iER
.'ST RICENT     CEOGRAFRIC    INCO?E         L'COM
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIYA-E /b        8EGION /c   CROUP /d    GROC'P le
EDCCA. :ON10.
AiULSiE  ENRLL'.'RATIOS
FRL'uRY      O-A'                   47.0         52.0       65.0             S5.0         82.7        102.5
MALE                   67.0         67.0       S2.0            103.7         87.3        108.6
EMAL.E                 27.0         36.0       47.0             66.0         75.8         97.1
SECCNDA.RY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0       17.0             27.6         21.4         33.5
MALE   7.0  18.0       22.0             39.2        33.0          38.4
FiALE                  2.0           7.0       12.0             20.8        15.S         30.7
VOCATIONAL Z7IROL. (  OF SEZONDART)    ..            2.0        3.0               4.3         9.8         11.5
POPfIL-TEACH3 LAT4TO
PR7MARY                              43.0         34.0       40.0             32.6        34.1          35.8
SECONDARY                              ..         20.0       21.0              23.4        23.4         22.9
ADULT LI-ERACY RATE (PERCENT)          14.0         21.0       28.0              41.4        54.0         64.0
CONSU!rTTON
PASSENGER CARS FER TNOUSAND
POP'LATION                           11.0         15.0       20.2              16.7         9.3         13.5
KAIhO RECE}VERS PER TEOUSASoD
POPULATION                           46.0         60.0       92.0            147.9         76.9        122.7
TV RECE:VERS FER THOUSA.D
POPOLATION                            0.4         11.0       27.0             36.0         13.5         38.3
IfEWSPAPER ("'AILY CEYERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION PER
rHOUSAND POPULLA-:ON                   22.0         16.0       21.0              17.9        18.3         40.0
CINc.UA ANAI.AL ATTEYDA.4CE F£R CAPITA  2.0            ..        1.6              2.9         2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABCR FORCE (tHOUSANDS)        3254.0       3981.0    4670.0
FEMULE (PERCENiT)                    10.6         15.2       19.0              8.6         29.2         25.0
ICRICL'LTURE (PERCENT)               62.5         56.9       53.0             43.0         62.7         43.5
<DUUSTRY (PERCENT)                   13.S         17.4       19.0             23.7         11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (P SRCE.NT)
TOTAL                                  29.0         26.4       26.1              26.7        37.1         33.5
-lALE                                  52.1         45.2       44.4              46.4        48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                  5.9          7.5        7.9               5.1        20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DE?EVDENCY RATIO                 2.0           1.9        1.8              1.8         1.4          1.4
lNCOYE D15sRIRUT:.ON
PERCEN- OF FRIVATbE  NCO.HE
UECŒVEI  BY
HIGEEST S PERCENT OF ROCSEEOLDS   18.O/           20.0S        ..              21.4        15.2         20.8
IIIOEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSEH,LDS  43.3L           49.0/5       .-             48.6         48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    7.O/:           4.0/        ..               5.3         6.3          3.9
LOLUST 40 PERCEINT OF RpUSE'OLDS   18.0g          12U.0        ..              15.0        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARCET CROUPS
ESTIMA-ED ABSOLL'-E POVERTY INCOHE
LEYFL (US$ FER CAPITA)
UIAN1                              107.0        157.0      319.0            201.3       241.3         270.0
1I0L                                 66.0        101.0      167.0            134.2        136.6        183.3
ESTIhATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LSEVL (US$ PE1R CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      242.0            288.6        179.7        282.5
UIRAL                                  ..           ..      157.0            170.0        103.7        248.9
ESTI.4ArD PO°'JLATION BELOw ASSOLUTE
POVEET`. INCOQE LEVEL (PERCEST)
ORSAN                                  ..           ..       34.0             22.9         24.8         20.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       45.0             31.2         37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicabJe.
NOTES
la    The adj,sted groop averages for tach Ltrdicator are populatioriweighced ztosetric means, excludlng the extreme
vales of the indicator and the moie jop.lated country ln eacb group.  Coverage of countries asn4  the
Indicators depends on availabillty of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unz1ss A    rae noted, data for :960 re!er to any yesr between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
aî,d JSfI; a.4 for Mcst R-ent F,o:datee hec. e, n974 anc 19717.
tc    North effrtzc  s Middle East;   Id   Lo.e.  M-idie mncome (5281-550 per capita. 1976);   /e  torernediat. Middlc
lncome (551i-1135 pt! capita, 1976!;   If  Excludes SMoroccan provinces ln W. Sahara;   Li  1962;   /h  Av. 199"-66;
ti  Brick huileing only;   fj  Consuspction oxpcnditures of householdj.
Most REcert Estioate of GN? per capita is for 1978.
Auguat, 1979



-25-ANNE 1
55 i96 l4 37SÉ1 I1~*                                                      agu   .   of   6
BWli  lTh. 641o.6.  sCoop &-*roses for *&eh imic.a1.  &ré pool:1e-.hgla   04411   ma"6. .062yd.614  ghSi.                    v 801 l6e s41 et i  -ho 14*1acot 44 glu  met
~poui   an4 6060167 in0 "Ch ire".  Caravage Sf g6t61.64é 4B044 6* indicaOtiv  44951*6 068 âvi<68114116  et 44t4  Md4 1.4 001   "fort.  Du8 e %O46 af daté.
là4.40 4.111 (lhosaod è4. bu)                                                             fpulgttl.c i04r Iegutgl, b4.d - coul.l '.r1.. e1.  rural    Population ttotal .
o.>  -<uIorfec. tar  4649t145.6  1e44 £18   M £44 1.6144 v.gt..                    46680.  mai  6'.t41: 6161464 D%6 10866 666941 e 664666 ai noap1.1*1. 614
or ptrz06.17  fior 66096. 96.46666. MrtS8  464 Ilîlos   941464 *? ce                     habu.lacîlhB  rusera.  41745.6.16 &CO *u6.blL.fmuaog  »gaa01:6ailw 
15.6 f.i1.o.                                                                             41 1.841  ma4 pbysie4im.                     providus6.966111  Pr10619847 c64164161
"Tt8 at6  ut 1.4ou46.  4u18l b1.ple.lis.           .6e. 16eud  96.2.64 sut ie41
00  6   12<   071   -09psr c44914 .utleAî.  as î,nmg  metb.î pv1oe,                       .1..  g cetera  WC p.u..o4se1l .îsff1*  b. a p4'sîgI..  (béàî by s modlea.l a6
8.1646417684606610 146b64 88 11061ois»Ch    4 asVC   a4ls ACIA4 (295-74aUàcuist, 56a». <1*61.0.. .61.1  61.11  ofette  14-9861866  ca6oe41.tao a"
196,  1,     .   1746.pwv"i4  & 144164teesrus  ai4 %"&clîa  fgaLl2.gle.
à4daiswes Der buuoptîa.  464 * Ia.  amiber of ajmaUeau  ge et d1464oegu
(îoCal a4"    5618C , p.g:oL.60, 04g61U.2. SM  6AM  b,tni., 61661.441  moi  .0-
taetse * 0.     4o.w.414 (.46600* 2*  446641.4101 * Zttal.  Pb.aa. *04t =641 -
741*0964 440 VOTAI OÂTIIOTOT                                         à 4o6e414"Ol  gouààelt  of £ scoop cf L441C1464.l Who sucre i16144 ç64,iets
ecta                                        as1)0,~66    611.0i  . 31 :Loi   1. il Mc1 .,e61&41.  Mt4 toast mais cula.  àbe4iert.  or 1.o4s81 474 or 647 tac ~4 1.661*44 in
474686 0f640   4~:86 6614*141   960, 1.990, ss4 U77 "U                         glu bege.be1.  lot elallgîa2.U PucrMe..  SCUaaLUC.2. d4.414141.  Ci hauts-
1Tr%o4A&t1.lct 460,4d1.66t  tc"po"&                                                        bà dys  ryi. epSî...0<..46.8.    606046   62664£4
Ci date »Ont  COU4-yêax 96bat4dm                                                                 Parsa"opar12.asela, <2.00 be64meîme6r0609144 PStg
Pîpoia:.60 *6  86666166 (6465661    08114as   (01« foi4t8>,  rdLl"                                   ZL43V'                te4:41i.05-,4a4.rt4u
(11-44!646s>* 844  61118  .45 yagoes 86*6.66   &O p.rougaee et 614-            001.tAOTO
746 popeL..t±ou.                                                                      44860184 !îto1.lo.g 6411.6
Peopulation 176066 va,6 <,og.o61t  - to1.1. an4 66r40 * 06094.4  an&«&6856   g60  - 66681,1                  C      66  f ooa.1..-tta         f 1481  40*0101.0  si au.  ales
514664 ra6s"  of -et"1 £oo 4ozoso zl644,u   p@p66AseU flet 1.990-40.                     oc tte 961141  142êl OS p461616a566 et voupecî.v19y prt10xn  45160416.q
1.960-40, ses4 1970-71.                                                                  pe.4.0l.12.117 014Lue.  41.mU  «1*4 4-1.  7646e but M44464  fte
crud6 bUîSh rata <,er Chc,u»eeo1 * A~.1.U"le 11.     r 41* par 946 6446 46                 *4Jf,ge.g  2.4gb4 ef p:18141  et36411601 fa1 comtesse 61.64 aa±vesr,..2  .
41-4-7.  99..416 population401.6za116 OVUCOSil 644 in4 1.960 sai                         c454o. .4a02.2.1«   &»7 e64.1.00 "raemf t 654<  .4    p.ap.la  mx  4.1. or
1970 dm4 fl.-7                                                                           uc". 6*o   .  50f t64   616  6148  4,  144 off loll soCel. &%O.
Crude 46661. vite (066 :1861.6881  - 4        s4414644  par g4oua44   ai .1.-            S6«o4."  O 6610   16...*feao    Cu4 as .4o..  eacede.7 1*eta0
7646 Population<  t86a9e*6 411.611461  .vetassi udt4 La6 1.960 bt1970                    Ueom 66444164: 46 144.106417846  0*  74064   116  instructive1 9e-
4id  i~r4 11o- a.t   «:456  MdLa.g in 1975 fe 0? 066  64.451 estimatI..                  61idès 5442 ,otiIîeaî.or 1eâg44t Craintes5 1*561r66126  toi pup9116
Crois 66C60466t1C6 6466 - ~"4S645  01044.  ef 45884g6t6 a auffl  Uill 4141                 68861  ef 1.2 te 17, 744:6 ef est; c106664900»446  16e6C85 64x  1651811.7I
1. 061 66606.1 ttPrO...1160  p.grio4 if eh. 8194666548  96V606 osé-                      <.81641*.
SP461'1g f6r611117 r.4686   64642.Y f14Clos84654416  1.0 1.90,                         26.caipgc&l .06411.641 <6,.6.61. 18f 16684.61 * vecatiosa1 -144-c:icaàî5  1.0-
1.970. Md* 1975.                                                                         Clus4, 166461.16.. 1014usg11.4.o  ot 681.6  t041.8m  O161 09481  10690046é
hsaly l, ,1.,oî   - b16*eo416#t, 04  (th ... nds) -  ee.a  68r et                          et é. deparcéenc41e 60 .etOooiy   .1î;e
86169186e 04 1..664060.  81.6  UmarC                   of910e   maLloa1 014117        fugi1-cesgbr ratio0 - 0.46. .6  qe66.40666   :ocli  étudier4 .OLI* 
Pl .4..16  9C0t4                                                                         91844t7  Md4 s461644y 146v*.. 61vi.611   67y n.umér  te 1441.6  1. chi cerre,
leuly 1,  .4.îo.g in£ 84.i <,ttc«g cf aa661.8  -cadre) - pe:ler tes ai                       Pmdtna 0     16 .16
wém10604  ai 110.1.-06416.4  4t6 U128  764661 -ho je. 4121-Sogte                 44421 15.6t.rat  :s66 'cerî.<c   - 12.6.6616 6*6.1.4  (abl*e go    i ta"   6611.C, sa
tu1651   1  66148651 &               664 560869. 8tc,tla0sa"                                       et toc"2 44611 90961t11.40Ces 1.1 94ars a"  o46..
1.044 .  f 04 6046610 cc 6 Par  1t  (1770-1001   4444ea mb   et parPjiter66  (6<  Chemine4 »epg1.g1vn>   tatouasse6  cm1 1C10   010 
64911, 6166.c1 966.10i:n 1  70006 co616±S..                                            4441105 1.444%u8  &Lm&4 ffloots6 <.144 X61468  boire14 404<611r41
P1c 4.1.1ia. Sooo- of  alori.016  (,.6o.ot o!7416..           - 0..puî.d tr..            6e41.6.1.
6146, 47616661  ci66 cet       4 Cod 411supplias  2   La 10661  946 69"Pt6            5410 r-O1816j (4tr t<$6444  00.14606  - £10 67445 et :4164t  for 6.4.5.
eet da.   v.1*1r 69164g:1s  4.014611.  p664uctio0. Import   LA I 1.aua             46084       ta 6  565ra.   public2.  par 664.4.44o  pet 90.8151100  .s61u4. 00111.0.6
8090618. 814 Chancs 66 1.0668k.  S46 suppli.  O<6      à  m164  40618. 04. 646d4.      C66416466 1.0 10961614. 444 La6 76866  CM4 645441681100 ef,,:ao se-& UM4  in
ÇUM4C1 « u68      in6.  face 96r164.14e. -614   se  La406  1441416b6616*.  as6         efface1 dits fer récent 7<418  "y7 sac b6 c160ra6416 4h1CC  1008C 6601*184
4u410.oîc  ars4 me611.t64  by  & 7414£a 60 96y86118116*J  041*  fot our-              .4811*4*4 144...4s.
ICI *6616117 4041.6.11.h 1011446610  6061100041 14e9464666. body                      T0 t6tcî.ore  ?p.r th060.0d 6008¶O     <   6 66    or btea*c.at ce Sesar.
.451.414 ab'4 Sax d4146614011.0  cf poco..2.ale. ut  1166  10 par.                  964111 Car 1406.64, pep8106166; .0Ciudad 602.166*64 0V 640â.41.614   1060
6606 fer u8566 8t h.0u460414 1.v..                                                       16144 46* ta6 604Ta 64*0 651str5c1o0 ci 97 "ce6 uu4 tu0 806c1.
7cr 269166 S66616  f6661(60   .64,       111   4106    e                                 4044   16..1018 ftOîo*04 ,0,a.1.6:C0>  - Sr hove the 46664r    666
Dépité 64  86oc,       60  746 6.0      sa. 18<6  07100 i.64 te  .0..  44                y16  !1.11   860.. 10814  666.69404. 161164  as à p9861041.6  pUtU1.
à 41        ll4 o 6 i10406  if Il trait ci z6141 9r66810 pet 4ay .14 1.0 o6me            bd '4.811!  if tg6 899e4t0 81 ledit f *66 614. a Utes.
cf a61ma 444 962.4  9601810. of 6416.0 1016484s 0406.4 4. 61166.  9r60161..           ciment 66064  816.44068e par ...66  266 6er 4  - 0.14 60Ch gSi. 6 e.  ai 1.1.14.
of 1<* 4 8o14.. 96018.ta .8 80 adert. for Che, 1461. 960906.4 4y                    Yutz..
74110616 <ti,  116147oo   atca  Z6     P18    PCA4 1.           f  ~
9.6 ri,.6  7611   666f               '1.1 64-C    es.t  .                                           fore  (0h1fl-. 6-69917 et f eed                 sooà   la09t06Trm
-hi168  f 0                        par1660   116  1.1 545  1.6  47                     00641 fort"  Ma~g           but04446  -  6061111   66.4068 . 141.440 Wl0.
<114 (8566t 1-C6P .01- 742`468CO (1.861.r0=404 Chi  4168. 4rQU44  t4tuà6.                  066  644 018.91 r,64          ses -.6614  6464.61661.  640.61. 84
Tuile. (p!666061      f 7..1.1.3.  forc6 as p466606456 ai0 6.11 1.bît fot«e.
464169                                                             *46166~~~~~~~~~~~~Ari.2t.r. (p.rcan6> - 1440r fo6e. te 1.60165. fot..t67. b-06.04  .e4 0114
1.10. 87846806  66 1..610 <6 "68> -  .6061  r et444 * r0   of li ts10            aà P41660685  of -oîal 1.40: force.
664414i.6481 et  1.11;                    &-r.at"16-46  6664  euis4 La    1.90. 1.770.  t646,66   <partantî - 1.4406 force in0 .1.01. 60ODS6T661oo. 644648166614  end
8014 1977.                                                                               4160:r11167, et1.6  04 sas 44  O06.11   f 10641 -046 for6s..
lif*ou  ze661216, 6r6ace . (p.   t.0.44d) -   oI  414  144466.8hP611,6 et16 <9.6:006> - 2.6*.  -. 241. 40  !.C.1. -Total.  lu.1. .4"
et.Ca      C84   4 ys0a.64    64161.  p41«14b.r (acr6  saPr . 9îttîî .. Ce :416h                                                            40617  ;9g.rc
c60e   g4ftal  1.4606 (9466-6 of                                 ad1,16       161   .46  6  66681 -  16.  Te. <1.8 id47u184 96161.91p.06 66168        .......;i66
s.r*48r Ci 340.6 t1.6.L. 1.06. 4 rurl.  .16                          as.641     à68*  ta  466661r46 cf th, oo.îsiu  1.64 Itos tino Irot.
651006401686.  6866$661 UC i 164   fra. 96146.4 18r.bc1... 896101.                       1   1l.8.  r«C  la45   560<1.  1.3 iG   64«T6.
Md4  ..01i87 Z.oia  1.  4181         e Cf 181668916v   0D6lacions..
th"0 1<0   c-66  fta,6        -.           666 ... 6   i00486.roa    a01$s 011th.0  6  .0îo ras61666  ja..f   (bath L0 Cas86. vif    d) 1.C41î.1v   b4v riîh4.1 
1491, -646  h4. 1,.o.sUlfc  r. =6.066  of th.  o,-.h.Id 60 041 h-,  6 to                   6.6441
86661 -           t.11a  P.0pie >101.1. 60tgn. .64 66.6.)..> 10606  7861                       .46 016!6051616$66 Cnat 0-co.84 --                       001 ~L.116461
41.1490,11   p..... 80165î  o! 146   09416   0416a8   lco.aîrto.±v..t. a1se plus 48t..61.a1 lat-lolo  666.640801t  .6 lot
4di670611  "Y 1186:446 21. Ca.l1.661a  64 îl;6           ich116  ot 6164061                tf1or4661..
Usse,1.1.  .68  ..16614 444 1.4c-.t.6060   -8646r-406m8  076644               66616.u4 .161         -.06866  in61.8  :eq1.  (1.51 1.6 ,1.      614   6   1.6:-~
ar:16   t  o  613661480  ..1.  îeîî.toan14416   pavel:!7 661006 1661 18  18  6060 C.66,.46.*   161.
7061.41.16  1.6  71186166    069.zlon041,.46  640066 e et p6.1t16101                v46 689166 961064  1000  of164161
47s6î !s<u1f-.6 !ro. o 6a161  c601î  61016  lo-a.                               ettrog.î b141610   Cs                                                     -cc6.   6106.61'6901)-6a   7  :166r   -
?oo:lîloo'8r,66 1.6 66666    909.14166 41.646 47  6044  50            4ec.î 8160046:1::.6.646 81 Di821104 66  .66.rb80a1.6 9106  6
9661610.48.1  a4 <64.  666648  6600,  686161 6668. 84                         '.16î6   1.66   41.4046  ..  64686
666661666 $66480.Z9.    .t«                                       a                  lai.    c."htb.rteCéat



- 26
Population:       18.3 million (=id-1978)
GNP per capita:  V'S $670 (1978)                                                                                           LMfEX I
_________                                 MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                             Page 4 of 6
Indicator           (milliomn U z et                                 Annual Growth Rates (2)
current prices)                 Actual                                               Projected
1978      1974   1975   1976    1977    1978    1979-e             1980    1981    1982   1983
NATIONAL ACC0UFTS
Grors damestic oroduct s/  12,426         5.8    9.3   11.8        6.0    3.1        2.7            2.9      3.1    3.8      3.7
Agriculture                 2,248      10.0   -8.6   10.6    -13.4   18.2    -10.0                6.2      1.6    1.6      1.7
Industry                    3,928       4.0   13.8   10.0       11.3   -0.7       4.9             1.4      3.1    3.8      4.5
Services                    6,250       4.5   12.0   14.0        6.9    4.1        5.1            2.9      3.0    3.5      3.8
Consumption                  11,138       5.5    8.4   11.7        2.0    2.1        2.5            3.6      5.7    3.6      2.9
Gross investment              3,094      .77.0   24.0   20.1      23.5   -3.6    -17.4            -14.3   -15.0    1.2       4.1
Exports of GNFS               2,167      -4.9  -16.0    6.3        7.4    3.6        6.0            3.4      6.9    5.8       8.5
Imports of SNPS               3,980      11.1   24.1   23.8       13.5  -13.9       -9.0          -10.9      1.0    2.4      4.1
Gross national savings        1.702      53.1   20.8   -5.1       19.9   -0.2        ..             .
PRICES
GDP deflator (100 - 1969)        .      149.9  1413.7  150.9    161.3  172.9    188.44              .
Exchanse rate (USS per DX)    .         .229   .247   .226       .222   .240          .256           .                        ._
Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)                             Average Annual Increase (7,)
(at  eurrent prites) 1o!                                      (at constant 1969 prices)
1960       19 70~  197 5   1980    1985    1990    1960-70   1970-75  1975-S0  1980-85  1-965-90
Gross domestic product                                                               4.0        6.7       5.1       3.9       5.4
Agriculture                 29.1       20.5   17.4   12.7    11.6    10.4          3.5       -0.5       1.7      1.S       2.5
Industry                    23.5       27.3   34.7   30.6    31.3    32.7         4.7         8.6      5.1       4.4       6.6
Services                    47.4       52.2   47.9   56.7    57.1    56.9          4.1        5.5      5.8       3.8       5.3
Consumption                   89.2       87.3   84.4   86.1    84.9    81.2          4.1        4.7       4.8       3.2      4.7
Gross investment              10.3       16.7   26.5   17.7    15.7    19.1          8.0       15.9      -1.8       3.5       8.0
Exports GNFS                  27.4       18.2   22.5   14.8    17.3    17.5          1.3        2.6       5.1       7.4       5.6
Imports GNFS                  26.9       22.2   3.3.3   18.5    18.0    17.8         3.5        7.2      -0.4       3.4      5.8
Gross national savings        11.0       12.3   20.4   16.6    18.3    20.5          3.5       18.4      -0.8       5.8       7.9
As a of GDP
1960      1970     1975      1978
PVBLIC FINIUNCE
Current revenues                                   16.5      16.6      22.9      21.8
Current expenditures                               15.6      14.9      23.3      25.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          0.9       1.7      -0.4      -3.8
Capital expenditure                                 3.8       5.9       9.1       7.7
Foreign financing                                    -        1.4       3.7       6.7
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80       1980-85        1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                       4.0           6.1            5.1           3.7           5.3
GSP per capita growth rate (7.)           1.6           3.1            1.7           0.5           2.1
Energy consumption growth rate (%)        3.8           6.7            4.3           5.1           7.0
ICOR                                      3.09          2.77          4.10           3.90          3.30
Marginal savings rate                     0.10          0.47           0.02          0.30          0.24
Ieport elasticity                         0.95          1.11          -0.08          0.89          0.99
a/   At market prices.                                                                                                    March 3, 1980
bi   Projected years at constant prices.
c/   Current revenues are consolidated Treasury resources (including Special Accounts) .                                  EMENA CF II-B
Current expenditures include subsidies, interest on debt, and all military expenditures.
Capital expenditure includes transfers for non-governmental investment projects.
e/   Estimate.



- 27 -
Population:       18.3 million (mid-1978)                                                                    An'EX I
GNP per capita:  US$670 (1978)                                                                               page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                           Annual Growth Rates (2)
Indicator            (million US$ at                        (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                    Actual                                 Projected
1978     1974    1975    1976   1977   1978   1979e,'   1980   1981   1982   1983
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports(FOB)   1,488       -5.2   -11.8    12.7    9.7    7.9    6.2          3.8    7.0    5.4    9.0
Primary                   1,131      -7.6   -23.5    10.1    2.0    7.7    2.3         4.6    3.3    3.3    3.3
Phosphates                488     16.3   -29.9    12.0    7.5    9.6   -1.7          9.9    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                    643    -18.2   -19.5      9.1   -1.J    6.5    4.9         1.6    2.2    2.2    2.2
Manufactures                357      13.2   -11.4    26.3   45.0    8.6   18.4          1.1   17.5   IO S   34 8
Merchandise impoits('CIF)   2,987      13.4    21.4      7.6   18.1  -14.1  -13.2        -7.7    3.4    2.5    4.6
Food                        577      -1.1    35.9   -25.3   31.3    8.5   -2.1        -7.6    7.7    2.9    1.4
Petroleum                   438      10.9    12.8      3.2   14.5    6.9   -0.8       -2.3    6.7    5.5    5.2
Machinery and equipment    813       77.0    51.7    20.5   33.2  -31.4  -18.6        -20.3    -       -     11.4
Others                    1,159       3.7     3.3    18.0    4.0  -12.4   -4.8        -1.9    2.5    3.0    3.4
PRICES (100 = 1969)
Export price index              .     245.2   205.4   207.2  198.7  196.9  217.4        237.8  2G3.2  287.Q  316.1
Import price index                    199.8   205.0   211.7  223.4  244.7  260.6       298.5  323.5  351.0  379.5
Terms of trade index          1. 122.7   100.3    97.8   88.9   87.8   83.4              79.7   81.3   81.8   83.3
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)            Average Annual Increase (7.)
(at current prices)                       (at constant 1969 orices)
.1960     1970    1975    1980   1985   1990   1960-70 1970-75 1975-80 1980-85 1985-90
Exports                                                                            2.0    -1.2      8.1      7.6     5.2
Primary                       89.5      89.3   86.0      72.0   59.2   55.9      ..      -2.1     5.3      3.3     3.3
Manufactures                  10.5      10.7   14.0      28.0   40.8   44.1       ..      6.1    18.9    16.1      8.0
Imports                                                                            4.0      8.1    -1.5      4.1     5.9
Food                          27.3      19.1   24.8      16.2   14.4   12.2       .      15.3    -0.3      2.4     3.5
Petroleum                      7.4       5.4   10.7      24.6   23.4   31.0      ..       9.5     4.0      5.6     6.7
Machinery and equipment        6.7      24.0   23.9      17.7   19.2   22.1      ..      12.8    -7.0      7.0     9.4
Others                        58.6      51.5   40.6      41.5   38.0   34.7      ..       2.9    -1.0      3.3     4.9
Share of Trade with         Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with CnDital
Industrial Countries (      D) OeveloLing Countries (>)    Surplus Oil Exoorters  (')
1960     1970      1975     1960      1970     1975      1960     1970      1175
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3      69.0     64.7      27.7      28.0     31.5       ..       3.0       3.8
I!ports                        76.7      67.0     67.5      23.3      29.0     25.9       ..       4.0       6.6
not available.                                                                                March 19. 1930
e!  Estimate.                                                                                     EMENA CP II-B



Populatione       18.3 'dillion (mid-1978)                                                                                                 ANWEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$670 (1978)                                                                                                             Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAY}ENTS. FXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions us$ nt current prices)
Actual               -_-_ _Pro '
rindicator                              1970       1974   1975      1976      1977      1978      197Y_            1980      1981   1982   1983    1985   1990
BALAmCE OF PAY>II8WS
Exports of goodS and services             775       2500   2583      2285     2485      2955      3506             3873       4440   5003   5782   7640  12869
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           488       1694   1531     1246      1283      1488      1738             1972      2336   2685   3223   4507   7807
Imports of goods and services            946       2282   3137      3681      4364      4353      4510            4654       5099   5651   6325   7948  13847
Of which-  Merchandiae f.o.b.          625        1679   2268     2519      2820      2629      3188            3371       3778   4703   4758   6141  11482
Net transfer8                              27         19      8       70        52        49        50               50        54      57      61      70      90
Current account balance                  -144        237   -546    -1331    -1827      -1349      -954            -731       -606   -591   -484   -235   -888
Private capital inflow (net'               21         36     -        38        53        45       -25                -        50      56      63      79    158
MLT Innns (net)                            90        166    526      650      1170       683       519             621        699    668    535    296    9Q4
)lther capital                             56       -316      3      627 a/   597 a/   611 a!   360  !              134 ai    -69    -42       -2    -1         1
Change In tesetves                        -Z3       -123     17       16         6         8       100              -24        -74    -91   -112   -139   -265
International reserves                   161         504   437       549       609       772
Of which:  Cold                          21        113     85       82       104       154
Reservea as months importa                2.0        2.7    1.8      1.8       1.7       2.1
EXTFRNAL CAPITAL ANO DEBT
Gross disbursementg                     175        290   646       762      1313       985     1001             1249       1383   1416   1480   1438   2432
officiel granta                       20          31     29       29        38        30
Concessional loans                                58    133      104       176       177      171              206        213    223    270    339    294
Non-conriessional loans                *         201   484       629      1099       778      830             1043       1170   1193   1210   1099   2138
Official  export credit8            *-           5      3       28        59       396       58              337        389    462    461    410    750
IRRD                                16         63    110        59       69         72       83              139        196    226    247    276    366
Other multilateral                   -           1      3        -         1        19       23               42         49     64      63      61     80
Private                             25        132    368       542      970        291      665              525       536    441    439    351    942
External Debt
Debt outstandlng and diabursed         703        1197  1690      2288      3478      4636     5193             5794      6463   7049   7578   8177  10529
Undiabursed debt                        239        636   781       932      1638      1722     1699             1552       1541   1644   1752   19Q8   2036
Total service paymente                   58        135   137       140       234       505      746              983       1089   1201   1435   1667   2044
23         42    47        57       129       232      264              356        405    453    489    526    606
Paysents as % exporte                   7.5        5.4   5.3       6.1       9.4      17.1    21.3              25.4       24.5   24.0   24.8   21.8   15.9
Average intereet rate on nev inans (7.) 4-4          5.2   6.8       7.2       7.3       7.7      7.7              7.1        7.2    7.0    7.1      7.0    7.3
Averay,p maturity of new lbans (yeArS)  18.5        17.8  16.5      11.5      10.6      11.4     14.0             12.0       11.6   12.3   12.1    12.3  10.2
AM I of Deht Outstanding nt End of Most Recent Yesr (1978)
Matuîrity strttettire of debt outatanding
Mati,ritles duie within 5 yeara                                  20.6 -
Maturittes due wlthtn 10 years                                   53.2
Intereet struicture of debt outstanding
Interest duie vithin first vear                                   4.2
A/ IncludJng special grants for defense,
Not available.                                                                                                                         march 5, 1980
e/  Entimate.                                                                                                                               EMENA CPII-E



ANNEX Il
Page 1 of 8
- 29 -
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                                 US$ Million
Credit                                                                        Amount  (less cancellations)
Number         Year          Borrower                  Purpose                Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen       Loans         Fully disbursed                                   244.9
Four           Credits       Fully disbursed                                             36.0
643           1969          Kingdom of Morocco        Irrigation               46.0                 0.3
850           1972          ONEP                      Water Supply             48.0                 0.5
955           1974          Kingdom of Morocco        Highway                  29.0                 0.9
1017           1974          Maroc-Phosphore           Industry                 50.0                 1.2
1018           1974          Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture              32.0                12.5
555           1975          Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture                       14.0       13.7
1123           1975          Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture              18.5                 5.9
1201           1976          Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture              30.0                13.2
1202           1976          Kingdom of Morocco        Tourism                  21.0                14.8
1220-T         1976          Kingdom of Morocco        Education                25.0                25.0
1279           1976          CIH                       DFC (Tourism)            25.0                 0.8
1299           1976          Kingdom of Morocco        Power                    49.0                 3.8
1361           1977          CNCA                      Agriculture              35.0                 1.0
1383           1977          CIOR                      Industry                 45.0                 2.3
1416           1977          Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture              41.0                39.8
1428           1977          BNDE                      DFC                      45.0                28.5
S-7           1977          Kingdom of Morocco        Engineering               1.5                 1.5
1528           1978          Kingdom of Morocco        Urban Development        18.0                17.5
1602           1978          Kingdom of Morocco        Fes-Karia-Tissa          65.0                65.0
1625           1978          Maroc-Phosphore           Industry                 50.0                18.3
1681           1979          Kingdom of Morocco        Education               113.0               113.0
1687           1979          Kingdom of Morocco        DFC (SSI)                25.0                25.0
1695 1/        1979          Kingdom of Morocco        Power                    42.0                42.0
1704           1979          CNCA                      Agriculture              70.0                70.0
1724           1979          Kingdom of Morocco        Water Supply             49.0                49.0
1757 1/        1980          Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture              58.0                58.0
Total 2/                                                                 1275.9    50.0      623.5
of which has been repaid 3/                                             151.6     0.5
Total now outstanding                                                    1124.3    49.5
Amount Sold                                       20.1
of which has been repaid 3/                     12.7                      7.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                           1116.9    49.5
Total undisbursed                                                         609.8    13.7      623.5
NOTE
l/ Signed, but not yet effective.
2/ Excluding a $50 million loan for Petroleum Exploration Project and a $62 million loan for a
Third Highway Project which were both approved on April 15, 1980, but are not yet signed.
3/ As of February 29, 1980.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of March 31, 1980)
us$ Million_
Loan    Equity    Total
1963/1978           BNDE                        Developrnent Bank          -       2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                         Canning Factory           0.9      0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement             Cement Factory            -        1.4      1.4
1977                Temara Cement                Cement Factory           4.8       2.4       7.2
1979                Agadir                       Cement Factory          12.5       2.2     14.7
1980                SOMIFER                      Copper Mining           12.9       2.2     15.1
Total Gross Commitments                                              31.1      11.4      42.5
Less cancellation, terminations,
repayments and sales                                            0.8       1.3       2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                                    30.3      10.1      40.4
Total undisbursed                                                    25.5       4.8      30.3



- 30 -                          ANNEXIl
7age 2 of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION  l/
Ln. No. 643  Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project:  iJS$46 million Loan of November
lYr19 7 Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closïng Date:
Ju-n-e 3-0, 1980.
Progress in. implementing the project was dtelayed by problems ini-
tially experlenced with management and procurement ofE canalettes and by severe
flooding in February 1977 Nwhich caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structurea, Idriss 1 er Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha area already equipped. AdditiJonal infrastructure for
the project area, înciuding a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR,
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Plroject; US$48 million Loant of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effeclt:iveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completFd except for the training
school, which is under conEtruction and expected ta be completed in early 1980;
training courses are presen.tly being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff Încreases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did nlot
compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has estab-
lished an interministerial commission ta review the situation.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of =Ef ectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closin-g Date: June 30, 19807.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedu'le - and the maintenance equipment and
highway improvement programs are complete.
Ln. No. 1017 Maroc-Phosphore I Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 19'75; Clos"n~g Dat7e:
June 30, 1980.
The project was plhysically completed in October 1976 and the
phosphoric acid plant is now in commercial operation.. Disbursements would
be completed before June 30, 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of project-s in executîon, and in par-ticular ta report any
problems which are beinig encountered, and the action being taken ta
remedy them. They shouild be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do flot purport ta present a baelanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesSes in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. The project area roads construction program was com-
pleted in 1977, and the farm roads program in 1978. The Government recently
requested that funds earmarked for the construction of flood protection dykes
be transferred to other infrastructure works related to the Sebou I and Il
projects, in view of the high costs of such works, and the advancement of the
construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of flooding.
A decision on this request is under review. The study on pollution control
is now proceeding satisfactorily. Since the start of the project, the
Ministry of Public Health initiated a nationwide survey and control program
of bilharzia; a separate survey on the Rharb plain is no longer required.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 49 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed. Works related to the social components of the project which
suffered from substantial delay are now underway. Budgetary constraints
facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the operating budget and held back
the assignment of additional personnel, causing some delay in project imple-
mentation. While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped
so far, developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put
under irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project has faced substantial delays in project implementation
due mainly to the difficulty of land consolidation in a rainfed area, attempted
for the first time in Morocco under the project. The cadastral surveys are
now underway, and commitments of funds under the project have been initiated.
Project management and the coordination of project activities between the
project authority and the central offices of the Ministry of Agriculture have
improved but continue to require close monitoring. A revised land reform and
redistribution program which meets the project's objectives is currently under
preparation. A nationwide study on collective lands has been postponed.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1201  Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
196  Date of Effectiveness:  July 20, 1976; Closing_Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,600 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Founty land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by mid-1980. The imple-
mentation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
closely monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted.  CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.



-33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - AI Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  November
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 kV transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361  Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project covered most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term lending
through August 1979 and included related technical assistance. Disbursements
of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small farmers, coopera-
tives and farmers' associations. About 95 percent of the Bank loan has been
disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by mid--1980, as
scheduled.
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
started operation in January 1979, and 95 percent of the Bank loan has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala Il Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in two-
year delay in completing the project.
/



- 34 -                          ANNEX II
rpa _       8 pages
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
Septemb~er~30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. While disbursements are behind schedule, commit-
ments as of January 31, 1980 amounted to US$36.5 million.
Ln. No. S-7  Sewerage.Engineering Project; US$1.5 miLlion of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan
for the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project.
It would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for
urban sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases
for the development of this sector.  Project implementation has been delayed
by about 15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, which
have now been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an
experimental sites and services housing schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. Construction is proceeding satisfactorily, although
there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities.  These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure. Implementation has been
running about 6 months behind schedule.  However, since operating funds have
become available, the Project Authority is accelerating project implementation
and civil works, training and cooperative organization are proceeding satis-
factorily.



- 35                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness:  October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping
of Il technical lycees, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project; US$25.0
million of April 25, I979; Date of Effectiveness: December 17,
1979; Closing Date: December 31,1983.
The project consists of a two-year slice of a Government program
to assist small and labor intensive industries through policies, technical,
managerial and financial assistance.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22, 1979;
Effectiveness Limit: April 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1Y94.
This project which is the first stage of a 15-year village elec-
trification program would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings in 220
villages located in 17 provinces.
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of May 23,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's
farm families. The project will cover most of CNCA's medium- and long-term
lending program and farm investment program through August 1982.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness:  February 4, 198C; Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir and (iii) the establishment
of a revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families,
and (iv) studies on accounting and management systems.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
Approved September 11, 1979; Effectiveness Limit:  May 19,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is the first phase of Morocco's Five-Year Plan for
development of off-season vegetables for export. $50,0 million of the loan
is to be on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental
short-term production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two
small producer packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting
about 8,000 farm families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of
the loan would help finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical
assistance.



- 37 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Trends
(a)  Project Identification:                     November 1975
(b)  Time taken by the Borrower to               3.5 years (November-June 1979)
prepare the Project:
(c)  Agencies responsible for the
Project preparation:                        Forestry Directorate of the
Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MARA);
assisted by FAO/UNDP Project
MOR 71/536 - Soil Conservation
and Erosion Control Project
1978, and bus-stopping visits
of FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program.
(d)  First Bank mission to review Project:    October 1977
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                    September 14, 1979
(f)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:         April 15, 1980
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              September 30, 1980
Section Il. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) Agreement on cadastral survey program to be financed by Bank loan
(para. 50).
(b) Continued responsibility of the National and Interprovincial Project
Coordination committees to follow up project execution and ensure
coordination (para. 52).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Staffing of agricultural services (para. 53)'.
(d) Maintenance in force of implementing decrees for soil conservation
and range improvemlent program (para. 54 and 55).
(e) Organization and support of grazing associations (para. 55).
(f) Beneficiaries of irrigation rehabilitation to provide all on-farm
development and unskilled labor requirements of irrigation system
(para. 55).
(g) Procurement (para. 60).



IBRD 14879R
APRIL 1980
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
-~ -. o Teloa,o,,
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        o                                               ,- sra
PROJECT ZONES                                                                    Zaaroura
, UPPEH [uT eKOS                                                                                                                                                                                        CHAOUEN
MIDLDLE LTIUKKOS IZA                                                                                                                            ;
| Z=117ARFTPE-NEW PLAN1ATIONS
>  F  .j IZARENE EXISTING RE,-ORESTACION\
Derdara
F FOREST STATIONS                                                                               _
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tku
VI, L AGES                            ~jBoued,cne                                                                                         Tanakoub /
WO0RK CENTERS                                                                                                                     |-                                   -
`    SUB CENTERS
*    WATER POINTS S                                                                                                     K                  \D
M    HFALTH CENTERS
PRHO VO?AL  TA _OIARTERS                              RS6 3A---                                                    _                F E N E
| 0    COUNTY HEADUUAI'TLHS                       T' Tatoufet                                                                       Cl Sf  ,S .  I
|         T OTINSHIP HLUDOUSRIi ERS              X                                                                8.       n6 <"-X       |-FO D   k  
CATCHMENT BOJNDAHY                    KSAREL KBIR                                                                                                                                    BEI -  'S-
PROVINCIAL SOUNLSIY  >                                                                                               kchri
- SUBDIVISION BOUNDAR Y                                                                                                                    e.lota, < g(NEI -   B   k                                            OFIf-
TERT ARY ROADS IN THE PROJECT         r                              - /                  j) 1,
_ FARM  ECTFSS TO.DS IN TIIE MIDDLE LOLKK'OS                                                                 ez -  )   Ieîta   Anene
IFAHM AC ESS  OADSS IN UPPER  LOUKKOS
-               Os~~~Dhar Arobc,i< iC
-   PRIMARYU                        (.An- Arau                                  "t NI                      ,   #\   I\i5D                                    l             -
SECONDARY HOADS ,                                                                                    I                                                             z`
…----- r       …ETIARY llOADS                                                       {2î                                  -AI Ancer                                                        r
Hommraî<,j                                   j ~   4siene   \ o  f       *    ï                     CT           Z
l To ' (: t ::}et s r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o--5  arse
M zefrounp       <l O      0
I                                                                                                              c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
O ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~    ~    [ r                                                                                                                                     X hQZolumîE >)\      ;     WrdBn [tI ôStt.  s
;,O~~~ \                                                                    '       >                                    ur     r1 /ttIff  f1
E-_'z
tUe1 "Ta'' la 1, .1   Sr,CI
O  LRBCEKIISMETERS                                                                                                         '><'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"



