Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 287la-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
April 23, 1980
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 - DH 3.8
DH 1 - US$0.263
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 -         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            -         0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              -         2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)         -         10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilogram (kg)             -         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)        -         2,205.000 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA    -    Caisse Locale de Crédit Agricole
CNCA    -    Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole
(National Agriculture Credit Bank)
CT      -    Centre de Travaux
(Work Center)
MARA    -    Ministère de l'Agriculture et de la Réforme Agraire
(Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)
WFP     -    World Food Program
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ............................                   1
A.    Place of Agriculture in the Economy ....            .......      1
B.    Agricultural Sector Issues ....................                  1
C.    Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector                     5
Il.    THE PROJECT AREA ...................................                   6
A.    Location and Land Resources  ....            ...............    6
B.    Population, Land Use and Land Tenure ....            ......     7
C.    Agricultural Production and Yields ....            ........    10
D.    Agricultural Services  .........................               il
II.    THE PROJECT ........................................                   13
A.    Project Strategy ..............................                13
B.    Project Description ...........................                15
C.    Status of Studies .............................                19
D.    Project Costs .................................                20
E.    Financing ........          .............................      22
F.    Implementation Schedule .......................                22
G.    Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Audit  .               23
H.    Environmental Impact ..........................                25
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................                 25
A.    Organization at the National Level  ....           ........    25
B.    Organization of Provincial Services  ....           .......    27
C.    Farmers' Participation ........................                29
D.   Training ......................................                 32
E.    Monitoring and Evaluation .....................                32
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ....              ............   33
A.    Production and Income .........................                33
B.    Economic Analysîs .............................                37
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS ........ ........                41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October 1979
consisting of Messrs. E. Quicke, H. Floyd (Bank) and Messrs. J. Hall and
C. Holloway (Consultants). Mr. C. Polti (Bank) participated part-time in
the mission.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be uscd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents  (Continued)                                                     Page No.
ANNEX 1 -  PROJECT COST
Table 1 - Middle Loukkos Subproject  .....                 ..................    43
2 - Upper Loukkos Subproject  ........................    44
3 - Izarene Forestry Subproject  .....               ................   45
4 - Other Project Costs  ........................... .   46
5 - Social Infrastructure  ...........................    47
6 - Cadastral Survey  .......             .........................    48
7 - Whole Project  ........            ...........................    49
8 - Schedule of Disbursements  .....               ..................    50
ANNEX 2 - SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN PROJECT FILE  ........           ............................   51
CHART:   PROJECT ORGANIZATION  ........              ...........................    26
MAP IBRD 14879R



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Morocco's population is estimated at 18 million (1977) of which
about 63% live in rural areas. Agriculture contributed about 14% of GDP
in 1977, down from an average of 22% during 1967 to 1970. Population growth
has averaged 2.8% p.a.; 4.8% in the urban sector, 1.8% in the rural sector,
the difference being due to rural-urban migration. Agricultural exports
accounted for 33% of total exports in 1977, falling from about 60% prior
to 1975. Over the last 15 years, agricultural output grew at an average
rate of 2.4% per annum (in constant prices). Production has not kept up
with increased demand, resulting in a 21% p.a. average increase in food
imports from 1970 and 1977 (in current prices), 9.6% p.a. in quantity terms.
The value of Moroccan agricultural exports expanded at 6% p.a. during the
1970 to 1977 period, with the quantity of agricultural exports declining at
1.2% p.a.
1.02      Land Use.  Morocco has a total land area of 50 million hectares
of which 7.4 million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping, and 20
million are in semi-arid or mountain regions suitable only for grazing.
Permanent irrigation covered 690,000 ha in 1977. About 5.8 million ha of the
7.4 million of agricultural land are cultivated each year; the remainder is
left fallow. About 4.5 million ha are planted under cereals, 500,000 ha under
pulses, 400,000 ha under fruit trees, 140,000 ha under vegetables, 60,000 ha
under sugar beet, and the remainder under oilseeds, cotton, and forage crops.
Livestock is primarily extensive, based on grazing of pasture land. Intensive
livestock production based on cultivated forage crops, barley, or industrial
crop residues, is rapidly becoming important in irrigated and high rainfall
areas. Most of Morocco's mountainous areas, including the Western Rif Moun-
tains in which the Loukkos watershed is situated, are characterized by tradi-
tional agricultural practices, and limited use of fertilizers, plant protec-
tion, certified seeds and farm machinery. As a result, crop yields and
livestock productivity are generally low.
B. Agricultural Sector Issues
1.03      The major issues facing the agricultural sector have been identified
and the analytical work done to date summarized in a report entitled "Morocco:
Agricultural Sector Memorandum" (No. 2667-MOR) which has been discussed in
depth with the Moroccan authorities and is scheduled for distribution shortly
to the Executive Directors. The reader is referred to this document for fuller
treatment of issues, which are not directly relevant to the Project, such as
export promotion, price regulation and subsidies.



1.04      Sectoral Allocation of Resources.  The Government's Interim Plan
for 1978-1980 indicates that agriculture is to receive 18% of public investment
as it did under the Third Plan (1973-1977). This amounts to US$963.0 million
equivalent. About 57% of Government agricultural investment will go to irriga-
tion projects, 16% to the extension service and to the agricultural components
of rural development projects. About 6% would go to livestock development,
5.6% to forestry and soil conservation, and the remainder to agro-economic
studies, the cadastral survey, research, rural water supply, and agricultural
education. Eighty-five percent of the rural population is dependent on rainfed
agriculture, and Government studies indicate that improvements in farming
practices alone could increase rainfed agricultural production dramatically.
The "Interim Plan" recognizes for the first time the need to shift more
Government resources to rainfed production. However, the tight public finance
situation, the relatively high economic returns to completing on-going irriga-
tion projects with considerable sunk costs and relative difficulty of preparing
rainfed projects have precluded the possibility of significantly decreasing the
share of irrigation in the investment and operating budgets.
Rural Poverty and Underemployment
1.05      The Problem.  About 45% of Moroccan farm families live at or below
the rural absolute poverty level of US$200.0 per capita. Only 60% of the
available rural labor (which totals 3,130,000 man years) is fully employed.
An analysis of Moroccan statistics indicates a reduction in average real
per capita income of the poorest 50% of Moroccan farm families and an increase
in underemployment in rural areas. At the same time, there is evidence that
agricultural income in the irrigation command areas and in the high rainfall
areas has increased, as has that of the farm population served by CNCA agri-
cultural credit. There is therefore an increasingly unequal distribution of
income in the rural sector. 1/ There are zones of poverty in the rural
sector, little touched by Government investment and agricultural credit, in
which living conditions are deteriorating. These zones, of which the Upper
Loukkos area is one, are found predominantly in mountain, forest and arid
areas of Morocco. As an indication of the conditions existing, a 1978 survey
in the Loukkos Basin found that 55% boys and 96% of the girls aged 8-14 years
old were illiterate. Livestock is a major source of livelihood for the
poor as it has been estimated that in Morocco as a whole, 63% of cattle and
46% of sheep are owned by landless farmers and farmers having less than five
hectares of land.
1.06      Possible Solutions. To more efficiently address the poverty problem,
the economy and social structure of regions in which poverty is important
1/   See the Morocco Basic Economic Reports, Annex on "Poverty in Morocco".
The 40% poorest rural households had 21% of total rural consumption in
1959/60, falling to 14% in 1970/71. The level of living of these house-
holds declined by about 10% in real terms during this period. The level
of living of the 40% wealthiest households increased by about 40% during
the period.



- 3 -
should be analyzed, as a first step to improve the well-being of the popula-
tion. Programs to address their needs would probably include: development of
pasture land combined with livestock production; projects integrating refores-
tation, erosion control and agricultural improvements in mountain and forest
areas; small-scale agroindustry to generate employment; social infrastructure;
and consolidation of land tenure patterns in the long run. It should, however,
be recognized that the required programs will be difficult to prepare and
execute, not least of all because they require a high degree of coordination
between technical components and implementing authorities, as well as a high
degree of acceptance by beneficiaries. The Government, including the Ministry
of Agriculture, has taken steps to address these issues by increasing the role
of provincial services and the resp6nsibility of provincial officials in
Project identification; preparation and execution.
1.07      Finally, a poverty oriented development strategy should include some
modifications in the existing legislation with respect to land use, land con-
solidation, user charges to be imposed on beneficiaries of Government invest-
ments, and the contribution of farmers to Government Projects in order to make
provisions more relevant to prevailing conditions. The existing Agricultural
Investment Code calls for a high level of financial contribution even from
small farmers. Such a contribution is well beyond the means of farmers who
live below the poverty level and who have little or no monetary income. On
the other hand, pilot projects undertaken by Government to demonstrate new
agricultural techniques to small farmers, and which involve no farmer partic-
ipation, have often met with farmer indifference. A new methodology is
required which is based on farmer participation, particularly one that can
utilize a contribution of farmers' labor. The Government has expressed
interest in obtaining the Bank's assistance to develop such a methodology,
and this Project encompasses first round proposals that retain moderate levels
of Government investment subsidies to provide incentives to farmers living in
these areas. This is particularly true of zones like the Loukkos Basin, where
the present agricultural system cannot be sustained indefinitely due to the
rapid rate of erosion and destruction of the limited agricultural potential.
This Project would also assist in the review and evaluation of the Agricultural
Investment Code (para. 3.22).
1.08      Livestock.  Livestock is a major agricultural activity, contributing
about 36% to agricultural GDP. In rainfed areas it has been a traditional
adjunct to crop cultivation (stubble and fallow grazing) and has a very impor-
tant place for small farmers both as a source of protein and as an instrument
for wealth accumulation or temporary savings. Morocco also has a long tradi-
tion of extensive livestock raising on range and forest lands totalling some
20 million hectares, mostly collectively owned and utilized.  It is estimated
that these lands produce about two thirds of the 4 billion fed units consumed.
However, livestock yields are low and declining: feed production potential
is declining due to overgrazing and the absence of range management, while
the herds themselves suffer from inadequate nutrition and poor health and
handling. These difficulties are accentuated by an erosion of transhumancy
patterns, as collective grazing lands are increasingly appropriated by indi-
viduals for cropping purposes. The Government has recognized the need to
arrest these trends and to develop the potential of these lands. A number
of trials have been under execution since the mid 1960's which have resulted



in the identification of viable technical packages. Application of these
packages has been slow due to the initial cost of investments, the difficulty
of securing initial support and participation of the right holders to these
lands and the relative lack of priority attached to the subsector. The pro-
posed Project includes a trial program on 2,300 ha to upgrade collective
grazing lands and herd management practices. It would also explore the possi-
bilities for developing forage production in mountainous, eroding and forest
lands. The implementation methodology developed would be directly relevant
to the large number of pastoral improvement projects under preparation,
including a livestock and forestry project in the Middle Atlas Mountains
under preparation for Bank financing.
1.09      Forestry, Erosion and Desertification.  Morocco's natural forest are
extensive covering some five million ha. The forage material they contain
also plays a major role in sustaining livestock during the winter months when
the grazing lands are unproductive. However, the national forests are being
rapidly degraded by the efforts of local population to seek additional cultiv-
able grazing lands as a consequence of increasing population pressures. As a
result, increasingly sloping areas are stripped of their vegetative cover and
exploited until the soils are exhausted or carried away by erosion. Inappro-
priate farming methods are likewise destroying the productive capacity of
cultivable soils.- The proposed Project would address these soil erosion
issues and would incorporate considerable soil conservation components, it
would also support the development of industrial forests under the Izarene
component. It would also enhance the long term viability of the 25,000 ha
Loukkos irrigation scheme as a result of a reduction in rate of siltation of
the Oued El Makhazine reservoir.
1.10      Land Tenure.  Land distribution is relatively skewed:  about 75% of
farm families own five hectares or less, accounting for 25% of agricultural
land. These farms are for the most part below an economically viable size and
suffer from excessive fragmentation: Morocco's 1.9 million farms are divided
into 11.6 million parcels. Absentee landlord and tenancy arrangements afford
tenants little security and consequently no incentive to improve the land.
With a few exceptions, tenants are also ineligible to receive agricultural
credit. A number of land reform measures are currently under study or being
carried out on an experimental basis. Among the Bank supported operations,
the Meknes Project includes a trial program for land consolidation on private
land and for the creation of viable holdings on collective lands. Although
the small size of holdings and land fragmentation are issues constraining the
development potential of the Loukkos Project area, Project implementation
arrangements would rely heavily on the creation of farmers' groups and coopera-
tives to carry out the planned investments.  However, in the longer run, land
tenure issues will have to be addressed if further productivity increases
are to be realized. In order to obtain a better understanding of land usage
problems, the Government now attaches a high priority to the execution of a
national cadaster on all agricultural lands. A first tranche of this program
covering some 500,000 ha would be financed under the Project in priority areas
where major agricultural development programs are under execution or preparation.



5-
Agricultural Extension
1.11      The extension service operating in the non-irrigated areas is
encumbered with administrative and regulatory tasks, employs agents with
little practical farming experience, and lacks organization, material and a
systematic method of extension. By contrast the extension services operating
in the modern irrigation perimeters are generally more effective due to larger
budgets, more and better staff. The Interim Plan set out a major reform of
the extension service, based in large part on the system being introduced on a
trial basis in the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project financed by the Bank. Under this
system, extension agents would give up all regulatory and most administrative
tasks, and concentrate on creating service cooperatives to which the agents
would provide advice on agricultural matters and aid in obtaining credit and
inputs. The project also finances a 3-year trial training program for exten-
sion agents that includes one year of farming under the guidance of instructors.
1.12      Even so, a major problem will remain in the less productive rainfed
areas, such as the Loukkos Basin, where the cost effectiveness of reaching
large numbers of small subsistence level farmers in difficult terrain through
stage financed extension agents may be questioned. Rather than to continue to
rely on relatively expensive field agents, who in addition to their salary,
require expensive-transportation and housing as an inducement for them to go
to work in remote rural areas, as the pont of contact with the farmers, it
will be necessary in the longer run to evolve a lower cost system, which does
not currently exist in Morocco utilizing selected farmers from the villages or
village level workers, as the grass roots level contact with farmers. The
proposed Loukkos Project would enable the Government to gradually introduce
sucl a system.
C. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.13      Bank group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and
to date 13 projects have been undertaken and supported by US$471.0 million in
Bank/IDA funds (US$24.0 million of which in IDA credits). They include five
irrigation projects:  Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss
Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76)' and Doukkala II (FY77). There have
also been four Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66, FY73, FY77 and FY79), an
Agroindustries and Flood Control Project (Sebou II, FY74), two Rainfed Agri-
cultural Development Projects in the Meknes region (FY75) and Fes-Karia-Tissa
(FY78); and one export oriented project, Vegetable Production and Marketing
Project, which was approved by the Bank in September 1979. Except for Douk-
kala which is adversely affected by Government financial constraints, and
Meknes, which deals with difficult problems of land reform; these projects
are performing generally well. There have been two OED reports dealing with
the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects in Morocco. The report on
the first project attributed the project's mixed results principally to CNCA's
shortage of qualified staff and Government's interference in CNCA's operations
by directing it to lend to small farmers and by dissolving a State company
receiving Bank financing without prior consultation with the Bank. It also
reported that the most important achievement was the institutional development



-6-
that took place. In its report on the Second Agricultural Credit Project, OED
noted some discrepancies between project execution and the English language
legal documents. It also calculated an economic rate of return to the project
of about 20 percent, which it noted might have been higher had Morocco enjoyed
a more effective national agricultural extension service.
1.14      Performance in some irrigation projects suffered initially from
problems of land distribution, organization, delays in construction and in
acquisition of irrigation equipment. Until recently, inadequate cost recovery
was an issue relating to irrigation projects. In March 1980, the Government
informed the Bank of measures it was taking to double irrigation water charges
and to raise the land betterment levy to levels that would permit recovery of
40% of investment costs. Those measures satisfy Bank covenants. Implementa-
tion delays have been caused primarily by financial constraints (Doukkala II)
and by lack of coordination between participating Ministries and Departments
(Meknes). Satisfactory solutions have been found to these problems and in the
case of the on-going Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project, a provincial
committee to coordinate project components was set up and functions satisfac-
torily under the chairmanship of the Governor. A similar arrangement is
envisaged under the proposed Loukkos Project.
1.15      Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy.  Over recent years, the Bank's
strategy in the agricultural sector has supported the Government's objectives
of increasing economic agricultural production to meet basic food needs and to
works towards agricultural self-sufficiency, while placing an increased
emphasis on developing areas, where untapped potential exists for social
reasons. In particular, the inclusion of actions to benefit the rural poor
target group and a shift in investments from large scale irrigation towards
rainfed agriculture have been pursued. The Bank strategy also recognizes the
need to support highly productive export oriented projects as part of a
national policy to promote exports. Within this framework, support of agricul-
tural credit which finances a large percentage of directly productive farm and
agroindustrial investments would continue to figure importantly. Support for
irrigation rehabilitation and development of small and medium scale irrigation
infrastructure is also envisaged, particularly as a complement to rainfed
farming. Support for Project preparation would continue to be provided by
both Bank and Bank/FAO Cooperative Program missions.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Land Resources
2.01      The Loukkos watershed is the largest single river basin in north-
western Morocco. The watershed comprises an area of about 180,000 ha of hilly
to mountainous land interspersed with narrow valleys and rolling foothills.
The Project area includes some 59,000 ha of this total and is divided into
three main subproject areas, the Upper Loukkos (15,000 ha), the Middle Loukkos
(31,000 ha) and the Izarene Forest (13,000 ha). There is little land with



- 7 -
good agricultural potential in the Upper Loukkos; less than 8% is suitable
for annual cultivation. Erosion has removed and continues to remove much of
the soil cover from many hillsides in this region. The Middle Loukkos (Zaz
Valley) is more richly endowed and as much as 70% of the land there could be
cropped annually. The Izarene integrated reforestation unit comprises a dozen
forest blocks, most of which are contiguous, with a total area of 13,000 ha,
and is situated in the southeastern sector of the Loukkos catchment area in
the communes of Mokrisset, Zoumi and Brikcha. The Loukkos watershed is the
source of water for the Oued El Makhazine dam, recently completed, which
provides water for the Lower Loukkos irrigation area of about 25,000 ha,
outside the Project area.
2.02      Climate.  Thé Project area lies between 75 m and 500 m above sea
level. The climate is Mediterranean, with hot, dry summers and cool, humid
winters. Perhaps, due to its proximity to both the Atlantic and Mediterranean,
this region of Morocco is one of the most humid in the country; average annual
precipitation in the Middle Loukkos area is 885 mm while in the Upper Loukkos
area it is 1,246 mm. No significant rainfall occurs from June to October.
Temperatures are moderate; the average mean temperature is 10.80C in January,
the coldest month, and 26.1 0C in August, the warmest month. The entire Project
area is usually frost-free throughout the winter.
2.03       Soils and Ecology.  The principal geological formations of the area
are schists and sandstones and the main soil types are brown forest soils,
which may be leached or hydromorphic. Until recently, natural forest covered
most of the Project area.  Where the forest still remains cork oak (Quercus
suber) occurs in a rather degraded form, normally originating from coppice
shoots. More degraded forest areas comprise fairly dense Mediterranean heath
or mattoral, composed of shrubs such as Arbutus, Erica, Pistacia, Viburnum and
Cistus spp. Throughout the Project area, and particularly on the slopes of
over 25% a rapid rate of ecological degradation is clearly observable. As a
result of heavy population pressure (para. 2.04) relative to the productive
potential of the land, and the steep slopes, soil erosion is rapid on cul-
tivated areas, and yields fall after one or two years of cultivation. In
order to maintain subsistence production, farmers have been forced to bring
into cultivation lands, which are not suitable for cultivation, either because
of slope (greater than 25%) or due to poor or shallow soil. These lands are
cropped for a few years and then abandoned for rough grazing. However, stock-
ing densities are high throughout the whole Project area, and the natural
vegetation does not have time to recover. In the Upper Loukkos the remaining
vegetative cover is not sufficient to protect the soil from erosion, and bad
lands, which cover some 5,000 ha in the Project area develop rapidly.
B. Population, Land Use and Land Tenure
2.04      Population.  About 32,000 people live in the Middle and Upper
Loukkos agricultural zones included in the Project. An additional 8,000
live in several villages located around the 13,000 ha Forest of Izarene and
enjoy limited grazing rights within the forest. Population density within
the agricutural zones of the Project area is high (70/km2), and increasing



8
at an estimated 1.0% per annum after deducting emigration. Sample surveys
in the Project area show 4.9 persons per family and 6.9 persons per agricul-
tural holding. There are considerably fewer holdings than households indicat-
ing that frequently more than one family are dependent on a single holding,
as for example, when two brothers operate a single holding but each have their
own family. There are also a number of families who do not have any land
(landless agricultural laborers) but who are dependent on the agriculture
of the area for their family income.
Persons      Persons
No. of         No. of           per          per
Population    Households       Holdings       Household    Holding
Upper Loukkos       10,600         2,100           1,686          5.0          6.3
Middle Loukkos    21,400           4,370           2,941          4.9          7.3
Subtotal      32,000         6,470           4,627          4.9           6.9
Izarene             8,000
Total         40,000
It is estimated that 80% of the households have incomes below the estimated
rural absolute poverty level of DH 5,250 (US$1,380) per family, which is
equivalent to DH 780 (US$200 per capita). The State forest boundaries are
delimited and well respected, and the incidence of illegal grazing and theft
of forest produce ia generally low. The total population in the Loukkos
watershed upstream of the dam is estimated at 87,000.
2.05      Land Use.  This differs widely throughout the Project area, depend-
ing on the7part icular zone under consideration, as shown below:
…---------------       Areas in hectares------------------------
Field             Vegetable   Tree    Grazing
Zone           Crops   Fallow       Crops      Crops   & Forests   Other   Total
Upper
Loukkos       3,729    1,986        150        307       8,846        -    15,018
Middle
Loukkos      11,928    4,345        427        800       5,500      8,000  31,000/a
Izarene          -         -          -          -       13,000        -    13,000
Total    59,018
/a   Including of 5,000 ha belonging to State-owned companies (excluded from
the Project) now operated by cooperatives or non-resident landlords, and
3,000 ha of roads, villages, and the dam reservoir.



- 9 -
2.06      Land Tenure.  Land tenure in Morocco falls generally into four main
categories:
(a)  private freehold (melk),
(b)  land owned by religious foundations (habous),
(c)  collectively held lands (tribal ownership), and
(d)  state-owned lands; these include state forests as well as farms
recovered from expatriate land owners (ex-colons).
Land tenure within the Project area is shown below.
-----------------Area in hectares---------------
State
Zone                            Melk    Habous    Collective    & Other    Total
Upper Loukkos                 14,930       88            -            -      15,018
Middle Loukkos                14,875      350          7,775        8,000    31,000
Izarene                          -         -             -         13,000    13,000
Total                         29,805      438          7,775       21,161    59,018
2.07      Farm Size.  In the Middle Loukkos land is held in relatively small
units with a mean farm size of 5.9 ha per farm.  Over the 17,500 ha of cultivable
land included in the Project the farm size distribution is as shown below.
Farm Size                             Percent of Farms            Percent of Area
less than 1 ha                               20.8                         2.6
1.0 - 2.9 ha                                40.3                        17.6
3.0 - 4.9 ha                                18.9                        15.6
5.0 - 9.9 ha                                12.9                        20.8
10.0 - 19.9 ha                                4.5                        14.5
20.0 - 49.9 ha                                2.0                        16.1
more than 50 ha                               0.6                        12.8
2.08      In the Upper Loukkos farms are even smaller with a mean farm size
of 3.5 ha, or 8.7 ha if communal rough grazing and bad lands are included.
Nearly 8.0% of the families are landless, two-thirds have less than 5 ha.
Farm Size                         Percent of Farms Families         Percent of Area
(excluding rough grazing)
landless                                    7.7                           nil
less than 1 ha                             23.5                           4.4
1.0 - 2.9 ha                               33.9                          19.5
3.0 - 4.9 ha                               16.8                          20.1
5.0 - 9.9 ha                               12.8                          27.3
more than 10 ha                             5.3                          28.7



- 10 -
2.09       Holdings are excessively fragmented and typically divided into a
dozen or more parcels since most land are tribal origin. No cadastral survey
has been undertaken, nor do farmers have title to their land. As a conse-
quence there exists no basis for land consolidation and access to medium term
credit is limited.
C. Agricultural Production and Yields
2.10      The principal crop in the region is durum wheat.  Pulse crops such
as broadbeans and chick peas are also important, and are generally grown in
rotation with cereals.' Several crops are grown mainly for livestock feed,
such as sorghum, flatpeas, and a mixture of durum wheat and barley. Barley
also serves as human food in years of wheat shortages. Olive trees (305,000)
and fig trees (95,000) are common throughout the Project area. There is also a
significant number of plum trees (40,000) scattered over the small valleys of
the Upper Loukkos which bring in additional income for small farmers there.
Vegetables are grown in small traditional irrigated areas scattered along the
rivers and streams. Most farmers also have cows, sheep and goats in the Middle
Loukkos and sheep and goats in the Upper Loukkos. There is a predominance of
sheep in the Middle Loukkos, and of goats in the hilly areas of the Upper
Loukkos.
2.11      Agricultural production is based mainly on subsistence farming and
is characterized by poor husbandry and low-input utilization. Productivity
of both crops and livestock is low and stagnant. A gradually-eroding soil
base encourages overcultivation and overgrazing of remaining land resources.
To try to combat this situation, farmers continue to deforest ever steeper
slopes, which further accelerates the rate of erosion and degradation of soil
resources. Increasingly, farmers cultivate land which due to steep slope or
lack of top soil is unsuitable for cropping and graze land until it no longer
supports vegetation. Yields, area and total production are shown in Table 2.1
together with livestock number and production.
Table 2.1: Crop Production in Middle and Upper Loukkos Areas (1979)
Area           Yield           Production
UPPER LOUKKOS                   (ha)           (q/ha)              (q)
Crops
Wheat                         1,310              6.0              7,860
Barley                           750             7.4             5,550
Peas & Beans                  1,660            5.2-7.5          11,200
Olives                          310               25              7,750
Vegetables                        30             100             3,000
Fallow                        2,110
Rough Grazing                 8,570
Forest                          280
15,020



- il -
No. of
UPPER LOUKKOS                  Head                 Production
Meat (g)           Milk (g)
Cows                          2,700           810                1,620
Sheep                         2,000            80                   14
Goats                        10,300           515                  515
Area           Yield           Production
MIDDLE LOUKKOS                 (ha)           (q/ha)             (q)
Crops
Wheat (Durum)                 4,980            10.0             49,800
Wheat (Bread)                   750            11.0              8,250
Other Cereals                 2,750           7.0-8.5           22,900
Peas & Beans                  3,450           5.5-7.0           20,250
Olives                          650            25.0             16,300
Figs                            150            20.0              2,550
Vegetables                      450           120.0             54,000
Fallow                        4,350
17,530
No. of
Head                 Production
Meat (q)           Milk (g)
Cows                          7,100         2,130                4,260
Sheep                        20,000           800                1,400
Goats                         6,850           342                  342
D.  Agricultural Services
2.12      National Level.  The central services of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform are made up of a number of directorates which report to
the Secretary General of Agriculture. Six of these directorates are involved
in the Project: the Forestry, Vegetable Production, Extension Services,
Livestock, Rural Engineering Directorates, and Land Registration and Topo-
graphic Survey. The Bank has worked closely with these units both in the
preparation of this Project and in other projects under execution and prepara-
tion. Because the Forestry Department is also responsible for soil conserva-
tion and erosion control programs, it was chosen as the "lead" directorate for
the Loukkos Project. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior has been
closely associated with the Project because of its interest in development
programs benefitting local communities and because it is the guardian of all
collectively owned lands.
2.13      Provincial Level.  The provincial agricultural services are headed
by a Provincial Director, who coordinates the activities of the different
services. The provincial director is not only responsible to the Secretary



- 12 -
General of MARA, but also to the Governor of Chaouen Province, and is, there-
fore, the key individual for the agricultural development of the region.
Under him are a number of divisions organized essentially along the lines of
the Rabat directorates, with the exception that the Agricultural Development
Division is responsible for both crop production and the extension services.
Since the Province of Chaouen was only established recently, the full range of
provincial agricultural services are only now being established in Chaouen,
having previously been handled from Tetouan.
2.14      Normally the jurisdiction of the provincial services follow the
provincial boundaries. In the case of this Project, a complicating factor
arises in the Middle Loukkos in that half of the subproject area is located
in Kenitra Province and depends on agricultural work center (Centre de Travaux,
CT) at Ouezzane, on the southern boundary of the Project area. Since for
agricultural development purposes, the whole Middle Loukkos area can most
conveniently be treated as a single development unit, MARA has made the
necessary arrangements for the new CT to be established at Asjene in the
Middle Loukkos, depending on Chaouen, to be responsible for the whole of the
Middle Loukkos component.
2.15      Agricultural Extension Services.  Agricultural extension is carried
out from the provincial headquarters in Chaouen, as well as CTs for Middle and
Upper Loukkos at Brikcha in the Project area and Zoumi, just south of the
area. There is also a subcenter at Zeitouna in Middle Loukkos. It is from
these centers and subcenters that most of the extension takes place. These
units also provide inputs and mechanical services to farmers in their area.
2.16      Although there are no agricultural research centers in the Project
area, the Forestry Service maintains an excellent center for forage seed pro-
duction at Mzefroun on the border of the Project area. The nearest agricul-
tural training center is located at Sahel Boutahar (100 km). It will train 30
agricultural extension agents per year as part of the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project,
and some of its diplomates will be available to work in the Loukkos Project as
well as the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project.
2.17      Provincial Forest Services.  The provincial or external services of
the Forest Department form part of the agricultural teams under the Provincial
Director of Agriculture. The forest division is subdivided into districts, in
the charge of a senior forester, and each district contains a number of forest
stations (postes forestiers) in the charge of a forester, who is aided by an
assistant forester (cavalier). At present, there are eight districts and 25
stations in Chaouen Province.  Each forest station controls several forest
blocks (cantons forestiers). There are four integrated reforestation units in
the Province, only one of which (Izarene) occurs within the Loukkos catchment
area. At present, the annual reforestation target for the Province as a whole
is 900 ha.
2.18      Inputs.  The nearest distribution centers of the state fertilizer
distribution company are located at Kenitra to the southwest and Tetouan to
the northwest of the Project area. There is also a network of private whole-
salers to distribute farm inputs, but truckers rarely leave the main RP28



- 13 -
primary road which connects Ouezzane to Chaouen, due to the poor state of the
road network within the Project area. Moreover, prices of fertilizer is
frequently resold at double the Government approved prices. As a result,
little fertilizer is used, nor are plant protection chemicals and other
purchased inputs. It is as a result of this unsatisfactory situation that the
agricultural extension service sells fertilizer through the agricultural work
centers. Even so, the existing center at Brikcha is located too far from the
Upper Loukkos and that part of the Middle Loukkos in Chaouen Province to be of
much use to farmers except those few with their own vehicles.
2.19      Credit.  The Bank has made four loans to the National Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA), the most recent in FY79. Appraisal of these projects have
consistently found that CNCA is well-managed and efficient. Local offices
(CLCA) are located in Chaouen and Ouezzane, which are sufficient to handle the
existing volume of short and medium term business about DH 4.0 million (US$1.0
million/year). The two local offices also open offices one day per week on
market day at Mokrisset and other local weekly markets.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Strategy
Origin of the Project
3.01      The Loukkos catchment is ecologically similar to many of the river
basins in the Western Rif Mountains in northwestern Morocco. Rapid erosion
is a characteristic of the steeper slopes in these catchments; but the Loukkos
Basin was selected for special study in 1973 due to the construction of the El
Makhazine dam to irrigate 25,000 ha of the Lower Loukkos. Obviously, the life
of the reservoir would be greatly influenced by the rate of erosion upstream
in the Loukkos catchment, so erosion control studies were initiated as part
of a FAO/UNDP project. It was soon clear that any measures taken to control
erosion would also have to take into account the economic conditions of the
population resident in the catchment, and from this beginning an integrated
rural development project has been prepared to meet both the needs of farmers
in the Upper and Middle Loukkos, while at the same time providing longer term
benefits for the beneficiaries of the irrigation perimeter downstream. The
three subproject areas were selected and included in the Project because they
are representative of the various types of conditions and development potential
that can be found throughout the two million hectares of the Rif Mountains:
foothills, with moderate agricultural potential somewhat similar to the
Fes-Karia-Tissa area; higher slopes with serious erosion problems, suitable
for forage and tree crops with limited annual crop potential; and forest.
Taken as a whole the experience gained under the Project should serve as a
model for addressing a number of economic and productive issues relating to
Morocco's rural poverty program.
Project Strategy
3.02      The lowest co`st way of protecting the Upper Loukkos from erosion
would be by reconverting the whole area to protected forest and mountainous



- 14 -
pasture area, due to the generally poor quality of the soils and the steep
slopes, but high population density relative to the productive potential, and
the lack of employment opportunities elsewhere will make it unthinkable to
abandon agricultural activity and crop cultivation in the area. The Project
is, therefore, designed to transform the present ecologically destructive
farming system into an agricultural system which will be sustainable in the
long term while at the same time being sufficiently low cost to the public
sector to permit the Project to be widely replicated elsewhere in the Rif
region. Provision of a permanent vegetative cover is a first principle and
thus a pasture and tree crop system is clearly indicated. Nevertheless, the
subsistence needs of the population must still be met and, like it or not, the
slopes will have to be cultivated with annual crops to provide the cereal needs
of the resident population at least for the foreseeable future. Measures are,
therefore, included in the Project to permit this to happen by reducing the
rate of erosion. Without soil conservation measures, the present destructive
system is not viable in the long term, since the land soon becomes exhausted;
lands with slopes of 25% or more which cover 40% of the Upper Loukkos Project
area, have a useful agricultural life of a few years only. The farmers will,
therefore, as at present, be forced into cultivating even steeper slopes,
until finally almost no cultivable land remains in the Upper Loukkos area.
3.03      Fortunately, some of the most erodable soils are clearly designated
as public domain land and included in the Izarene Forest component. Here the
existing Forest Department replanting program will be strengthened through
the Project, and the applicability of new planting techniques that have been
proved effective in other Mediterranean countries will be tested. For
forestry, the long term objective will be to establish a forest plantation
unit that will provide sustained yields of mining timber and saw logs suf-
ficient to maintain one or more sawmills at Izarene, and to provide employment.
3.04      Although the Middle Loukkos has a greater ecological potential than
the Upper Loukkos, both areas are closely linked spatially and ethnically, and
it is, therefore, logical to include the development of both zones in the
same Project. The Middle Loukkos area is typical of the piedmont areas that
lie between the Rif Mountains and the more fertile plains. The technological
package that will be introduced in this area will take into account the
experience gained with innovation being carried out under the Bank financed
Fes-Karia-Tissa Project, 150 km to the southeast, such as erosion control
works and hillside farming.
3.05      Of equal importance ta the physical investment made during the
Project will be the organizational strategy. Considerable resources have
been allocated to development of the Western Rif Mountains over the last
decade.  The national development program for the Western Rif (DERRO) program,
administered by the Ministry of the Interior has made major technical and
financial inputs over many years, including external assistance through
FAO/UNDP. The Project strategy aims to modify the high top-down approach of
previous projects and to encourage a grass roots upwards approach. Since
there has been little experience of this type of development in Morocco the
Project will initially have to use the traditional extension service system
(para. 4.13-4.19). However, the extremely active interest of the local



- 15 -
authorities in Chaouen and the participation of the population in the trial
programs carried out during Project preparation provide an excellent framework
on which the Project will build.
B. Project Description
Main Features
3.06      The Middle Loukkos or Zaz Valley comprises an area of about 31,000
ha. The Project will finance: the development of field crops, including the
establishment of sugar'beet; cattle development on 2,300 ha of communal
grazing lands; introduction of contour farming; improvement of simple gravity
irrigation and construction of tertiary roads and farm access roads.
3.07      In the Upper Loukkos (about 15,000 ha) the Project will include the
planting of firewood and forage tree crop (mainly acacias) on seriously eroded
lands; planting of contour strips of pasture and permanent pasture on recently
abandoned land (300 ha); construction of stone terraces and gully erosion
control dams; planting of fruit trees; field crop development; development of
dairy goats; improvement of simple gravity irrigation, and construction
of farm access roads and tracks.
3.08      In the Forest of Izarene pines will be planted on 3,500 ha, and
maintenance will be carried out on a further 3,400 ha of existing planta-
tions, including forest protection measures, fire breaks, etc.
3.09      Other Project Investments and Infrastructure.  Other project invest-
ments will include consultants, training, and road maintenance equipment.
Throughout the Project area investments will include the construction of
classrooms in primary schools, improvements to dispensaries, village water
supplies and markets.
3.10      A Cadastral Survey including aerial photography and ground survey
on about 500,000 ha of land will be included as part of a national program.
Detailed Features in the Middle Loukkos
3.11      The Project aims to increase agricultural production in a mixed
farming area through the provision of modern inputs, short and medium term
credit and technical assistance. Yields of wheat will increase from about
1.0 ton/ha to 1.6 ton/ha through inereased fertilizer use, distribution of
seeds and more timely cultivations, made possible through greater availability
of credit, inputs and hired tractor power. A new agricultural work center
(CT) will be established at Asjene, 8 km from Ouezzane and located in the
center of the Middle Loukkos area.  It will be responsible for extension in
the Middle Loukkos area. Project investments will include buildings and
houses for the extension staff, an office to be used part time by a visiting



- 16 -
agricultural credit officer and a store for the supply of inputs within the
Project area. The Project will also have considerable impact on animal
husbandry practices. Some 2,300 ha of communal rough grazing will be improved,
involving scrub clearance, reseeding and improved management practices. A
livestock component will include buildings and equipment to establish a disease
control network; establishment of a small breeding station for the introduc-
tion of improved sheep; cattle serving stations and a small artificial insemina-
tion center. In addition, new crops and enterprises would be introduced,
including the planting of 1,000 ha of sugar beet, and the introduction of
mechanized hay and silage making. An area of 250 ha of small irrigation areas
will be improved by the Project. This will involve construction of simple
water conduits to channel water from gravity intakes to the narrow strips of
irrigated land, which will dramatically reduce transmission losses, thereby
increasing the area that can be irrigated.
3.12      Tertiary and farm access roads will be constructed in the Middle
Loukkos. The tertiary roads will comprise 27 km of the CT2670 connecting
the Middle Loukkos Project area with Mzefroun and the RP23 primary road, and
the 41 km of the CT2641 linking Asjene with Brikcha. In addition to the
2,950 farmers included in the Middle Loukkos Project area, many others in
the Brikcha area will benefit from the improvement of the roads to all-
weather standards. A further 54 km of farm and village access roads will be
constructed, and equipment for their maintenance is included in the Project.
Detailed Features in the Upper Loukkos
3.13      The potential for agricultural development is severely limited by
poor quality soils and steep slopes. The main vocation of the area should be
the production of forage for goats and sheep although farmers must continue
cereal cultivation on the slopes to meet subsistence needs. Project invest-
ments are therefore oriented towards permitting the existing population to
continue crop production but safeguarding the cultivated slopes from erosion,
and to maximizing forage production. A new agricultural work center will be
established at Mokrisset. A small goat breeding station for the introduction
of milking goats would be established. Over the 15,000 ha of the Upper
Loukkos, composite investment packages will be planned and implemented on a
village basis after agreement with the farmers. Forage bands (1,050 ha) will
be planted on the contour to control erosion on the cultivated lands, pro-
tecting an area of about 3,500 ha in all, and a further 2,250 ha of olives and
fruit trees will also be established in addition to the existing 310 ha which
will be improved. Grazing resources will be further augmented through the
establishment of 300 ha of permanent pasture on eroded and poorly yielding
cultivated land. However, the actual area of field crops will not be reduced
below its present extent of 5,000 ha through intensification of the cropping
pattern, provision of agricultural credit and reduction in the area of fallow
land.
3.14      The investment package will also include several actions on the
rough grazing, and the heavily eroded bad lands, which would increase forage
availability and reduce the rate of erosion. Forage bushes (medicago arborea)



- 17 -
will be planted along the contour (800 ha) to protect an area of about 3,000
ha of erosion susceptible hillsides, and some 2,000 ha of acacia trees will be
planted on the bad lands. Other soil conservation measures for which no
immediate productive impact is expected will be construction of stone terraces
on 1,500 ha of cultivated lands and the construction of some 3,500 stone check
dams in rapidly eroding gullies.
3.15      Improvement of the distribution channels for small irrigation net-
works in the narrow valleys will increase water availability on 390 ha.
These improvements would include small diversions and construction of sections
of concrete channels where existing earth channels are not satisfactory.
3.16      Road construction in the Upper Loukkos will comprise 58 km of all
weather unpaved roads. A further 73 km of farm access tracks will also be
constructed by force account using labor intensive methods and construction
and maintenance equipment included in the Project.
Izarene Forest
3.17      Plantation Establishment and Management.  Two types of vegetation
clearance will be practiced. Where the density of oak is sufficiently high
to make cork stripping and charcoal burning economic (about 2,700 ha), forest
blocks would be auctioned among charcoal contractors and the areas cleared of
vegetation entirely, at the contractor's expense. Where vegetation is low and
open and oaks are sparse (about 800 ha), vegetation will be cleared at the
Forest Department's expense. Tree stocking will be approximately 1,000
trees/ha.
3.18      Two principal tree species will be planted under the Project:
Pinus canariensis and P. pinaster, in the overall proportions of 88% and 12%,
respectively. Both species have been used extensively, with success, in
the Izarene Forest. The timber yield from P. pinaster is appreciably lower
than P. canariensis but it grows well on north-facing slopes with deep soils
and its use will reduce disease hazards that are inherent in monocultures.
All trees will be raised in two existing nurseries at Ain Rami and Zoumi;
which have the capacity to meet these targets without difficulty. Forest
nursery techniques are well established. A cleaning (cutting back of natural
vegetation) will be added to the Moroccan maintenance regime, in the third
year. Thinnings, in Year 15, to leave 750 trees/ha, will be a charge to
timber contractors. P. canariensis will be felled at 30 years old and P.
pinaster at 35 years.
3.19       Some 25 km of forest tracks will be constructed to provide access to
the new plantations. Equipment provided in the Project will be used both for
their construction and maintenance. Plantation protection against stock
grazing, other forms of illegal entry and fire will be provided primarily by
Forest Guards, who will be deployed in the ratio of one guard to 200 ha of
plantations under 10 years old. Precautions against fire damage will include
leaving strips of natural forest, 30 m wide, around plantation blocks and



- 18 -
maintaining cleared road verges and fire breaks on ridge tops. During the
fire season (June to mid-October) fire towers and hill tops will be manned by
fire spotters.
3.20      Maintenance of Existing Plantations.  Provision has been made under
the Project for the maintenance of 3,400 ha of existing plantations and
protection of 6,100 ha of natural forest which will be planted after 1986,
including protection by Forest Guards, during the Project period. Competition
from regrowth of natural vegetation is restricting the growth of many young
trees and funds have, therefore, been included for a cleaning in all planta-
tions established in 1972-1978 (1,600 ha), which will be completed by Year 3.
3.21      Research Plantations.  Although Morocco has met with considerable
success technically in its reforestation programs, considerable research has
been undertaken in recent years in other parts of the Mediterranean Basin on
plantation establishment techniques that have proved successful in raising
timber yields and reducing rotation lengths. Under the Project, 120 ha of
experimental plots will be created during the first three years using techni-
ques which differ from existing techniques as follows: (a) avoidance of the
use of planting trenches, both to reduce costs and because their value as an
erosion control measure is dubious; (b) an increase in planting density to
1,110 trees/ha (3 x 3 m espacement); (c) application of mineral fertilizer at
planting (application rates have already been provisionally determined in
experiments by the Research Division); (d) up to three cleanings at ages
2, 4 and 6 years; and (e) rotations of 25 years for P. canariensis and 30
years for P. pinaster.
Training and Consultants
3.22      The Project will include a number of technical staff who will
be required during the six years of Project disbursement for supervising
construction and implementation, and for introducing technical innovation.
Thereafter, these staff will turn their attention to other parts of the
Loukkos Basin and of the Province. They will in effect become a provincial
agricultural development unit. To support them, finance will be included
in the Project for housing for senior staff at Chaouen, for consultant tech-
nical assistance and for training needs. Technical assistance, which be
recruited locally, will include 48 man-months of short-term consultants to
assist in development of communal pastures, animal husbandry, and for intro-
ducing cattle fattening and establishing goat's cheese factories, etc. In
addition, the Project will finance 24 man-months of consultants to assist the
Government in its on-going efforts to build-up a sector wide Project monitoring
and evaluation unit (including the Loukkos Project), and to review, evaluate
and possibly recommend modification of the Agricultural Investment Code in the
light of the experience gained during its first 10 years of operation. 1/ The
1/   The Agricultural Investment Code is a series of laws and decrees which
since 1969 has governed the extent and terms of Government participation
in agricultural investment (para. 1.07).



- 19 -
two latter consultancies constitute priority elements of the Bank's agricul-
tural sector work program in Morocco. A small training unit will also be
established at Provincial Headquarters in Chaouen, and finance will be
included for one-year overseas training for about 24 agriculture, livestock
and forestry staff and for visits to similar programs in other Mediterranean
countries. Assurances in respect to consultants and that their qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank and training were obtained during negotiations.
Other Infrastructure
3.23      Improvement of primary schools and dispensaries and water supplies,
which are included in the Project, have been strongly requested by the local
population and will bring them up to national standards. The Project will
include construction of about 50 new classrooms in 16 schools together with
staff housing, including establishment of Il new schools and the expansion of
five existing ones. As part of the Chaouen Province's on-going program to
improve rural health services, two new dispensaries, a health center and eight
nurse's lodging will be constructed in the Project. The Project will also
include the construction of 38 water points each one comprising a drinking
fountain, clothes washing facilities, and an animal drinking trough. Finally,
improvement of three markets (souks) in the Project area at Asjene, Brikcha
and Mokrisset will be accomplished through the construction of buildings,
stores, a small slaughter house and piped water system.
Cadastral Survey
3.24      The Project will support a 500,000 ha tranch of the national
cadastral survey which is envisaged will cover 2.1 million hectares over the
next six years (350,000 ha per year). Priority will be given to lands in the
Middle Atlas, Khemisset and Fes-Karia-Tissa areas where Bank financed projects
are already being implemented or are under preparation. The cadastral survey
will permit land consolidation and delivery of properties titles. Project
financing will include aerial photography, mapping, and comprehensive ground
surveys. MARA will be responsible for computering and updating the data.
C. Status of Studies
3.25      Project preparation for all components except road construction was
completed in 1979. An economic analysis of the road program, based on prelim-
inary design, was made in 1979, and as a result, the total length of road
to be constructed under the Project was reduced from 260 km to 180 km. The
contract for final design of the road construction program for 1981 amount-
ing to 54 km of tertiary road was awarded in October 1979, and it is expected
that the design will be completed by mid 1980. In November 1979, several
consultant engineering firms were invited to submit proposals for a further 14
km of tertiary road and 97 km of farm access road, which would be constructed
1982-86.



- 20 -
D. Project Costs
3.26      The total Project cost is estimated at DH 256.9 million (US$67.6
million) including taxes, duties, physical contingencies and price escalation.
Costs include duties and taxes estimated at 15% for civil works, 20% for
equipment and 15% for farm inputs and amounting to DH 24.2 million (US$6.4
million) including price escalation. Cost estimates for civil works and
equipment are based on unit rate obtained in contracts in other on-going
projects in Morocco in mid-1979. Physical contingencies included in Project
estimates are 10% for both civil works and equipment. For civil works and
equipment price escalation has been estimated for both local and foreign costs
at 12% for 1979/80, 10.5% for 1980/81, 9% in 1981/82, 8% in 1982 and 7%
thereafter. Consultant costs are estimated at DH 2.6 million (US$0.7 million
for 6 consultant man-years (US$114,000/man-year), inclusive of travel and
subsistence. The foreign exchange component of the Project is estimated at
DH 116.3 million (US$30.6 million) including physical contingencies and price
escalation of DH 37.1 million (US$9.7 million). Details of the cost esti-
mates are given in Annex 1, Tables 1-7 and are summarized in Table 3.1.
3.27      Project costs include the direct investment costs and incremental
establishment costs (the costs of operations) during the six-year establish-
ment period as well as taxes and dùties, but exclude the value of unpaid labor
contributed by farmers, DH 23.4 million (US$6.1 million) valued at the minimum
agricultural wage.



- 21 -
Table 3.1 - Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Item                                         Local    Foreign   Total            Local  Foreign   Total         Exchange
------(DH Million)                  ----(lis$ Million)-----           ()
Middle Loukkos Subproject
Inves tment
Farm Investment                              2.8       6.5       9.3            0.7      1.7       2.4            70
Communal Pasture Improvement                 5.9       1.7       7.6             1.5      0.5       2.0           23
Small Irrigation Schemes                     0.6       1.0       1.6             0.2      0.2       0.4           57 /a
Agricultural & Livestock Extension           4.7       6.2      10.9             1.3      1.6       2.9           57
Road Construction                            7.7      10.1      17.8             2.0      2.7       4.7           57
Subtotal                                    21.7      25.5      47.2            5.7       6.7     12.4            54
Establishment Costs (Years 1-6)                8.9       8.6      17.5             2.3      2.3       4.6           49
Total                                 30.6      _4.1      64.7             8.0      9.0       1             53
Upper Loukkos Subproject
Inves tment
Farm Investinent                             0.8       1.3       2.1            0.1      0.4      0.5             64
Land Development (Pasture and
Fruit Trees)                               2.9       1.6      4.5             0.8      0.4      1.2             35 /a
Small Irrigation Schemes                     1.3       1.7       3.0            0.3       0.5     0.8             57 /-
Agricultural & Soil Conservation
Extension                                  1.2       1.3       2.5            0.4      0.3      0.7            50
Road Construction                            8.7       7.7      16.4             2.3     2.0      4.3             47
Subtotal                                    14.9      13.6      28.5            3.9      3.6      7.5            48
Establishment Costs (Years 1-6)                3.8      , 2.1      5.9            0-9       0.6     1.5             36
Total                                 18.7      15.7      34.4             4.8    4£2        9.0            46
Izarene Forest Subproject
Lnvestment                                     6.4       3.4       9.8             1.7     0.9      2.6             35
Establishmeat Coasts (Years 1-6)               1.6       0.8       2.4             0.4      0.2     0.6             33
Total                                  8.0        4.2     12.2             2.1      1.1      3.2            34
Other Project Costs
Investment
Provincial H.Q.                              0.4       0.2       0.6             0.1     0.1      0.2             40
Consultants                                  0.5       2.1       2.6            0.2      0.5      0.7            80
Training                                     0.4       1.2       1.6             0.1     0.3      0.4             75
Road Maintenance Equipment                   0.4       1.7       2.1            0.1       0.4     0.5             78
Subtotal                                     1.7       5.2       6.9            0.5      1.3      1.8             75
Establishment Costs                            0.1       0.1       0.2             0.1        -     0.1             48
Total                                  1.8       5.3       7.1             0.6                              74
Social Infrastructure
Inves tment
Schools                                     10.2       6.9      17.1            2.7       1.8     4.5             40
Eealth Centers-                              1.6       1.1       2.7             0.4     0.3      0.7             40
Water Supply                                 1.0       0.6       1.6            0.3      0.2      0.5             40
Markets                                      1.7       1,1       2.8            0.4      0.3      0.7             40
Erosion Control                              4.3       1.9       6.2             1.1     0.5      1.6             31
Subtotal                                    18.8      11.6     30.4             4.9      3.1      8.0             38
Establishment Costs                            3.9       2.3       6.2             1.0      0.6      1.6            37
Total                                 22.7      13.9      36.6             5.9      3.7                     38
Cadastral Survey  hb                          14.0       6.0      20.0             3.7      1.6      5.3            40
Summary
Projeot Base Investment                       63.5      59.3    122.8            16.7      15.6    32.3             48
Base Project Establishment                    32.3      19.9      52.2            8.4      5.3    13.7              38
Base Project Cost                             95.8      79.2    175.0            25.1    20.9    46.0               45
Physical Contingencies                       6.4       5.9      12.3            1.7      1.5      3.2             48
Price Escalation                            38.4      31.2      69.6           10.2      8.2    18.4              45
Total Project Cost                          140.6       116.3   256_9            37.n    30        U                45
/a Excludes farmers unDaid labor contribution
lb Included in Establishment Costs.



- 22 -
E. Financing
3.28      The proposed Bank loan of US$34.0 million to the Kindgom of Morocco
will finance 56% of Project costs net of taxes, which covers the whole of the
foreign exchange costs and some DH 12.9 million (US$3.4 million) of local
costs. Taking into account the value of farmers uncosted labor contribution,
the Bank loan will represent 50% of overall Project costs, net of taxes.
Project farmers will contribute some 27% of farm investment costs. The
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) will finance DH 12.5 million (US$3.3 million)
of short and medium term loans to farmers, of which medium term subloans will
be eligible for Bank financing under the CNCA IV Project. Government will
finance the remaining DH 77.6 million (US$20.4 million) of local costs and
will assume the foreign exchange risk. The financing plan will be as follows:
Table 3.2: Project Financing
DH Million    US$ Million
World Bank Loan                                   129.2           34.0
Government Contribution                            93.9           24.7
CNCA (Credit Contribution)                         12.5            3.3
Farmers' Contribution /a                           20.7            5.6
256.9          67.6
/a  Excludes farmers' labor contributed to Project investments with an
estimated value of DH 23.4 million (US$6.1 million).
Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$800,000 will be
authorized for the construction of staff housing and purchase of vehicles for
the nucleus staff to establish the Project, and finance part of the costs of
the soil conservation program in the Upper Loukkos, carried out since October
1979 which use the same implementation techniques that will be applied under
the Project.
3.29      The proposed Bank loan will be for 22 years including four years of
grace. The Bank loan will include US$3.4 million to finance local currency
costs, which is justified on country grounds.
F. Implementation Schedule
3.30      The Project will be implemented over six years commencing in
end-1980. The main activities during the first year will be construction of
buildings and purchase of equipment. Once field staff are in position by the
end of 1980, full Project implementation will go ahead at the farm level.



- 23 -
G. Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
Procurement
3.31      Procurement will be carried out by five Departments of MARA (Agri-
cultural Development, Livestock, Forestry, Rural Works and Land Registration
and Topographic Survey), and by the Ministries of Public Works, Education and
Public Health and by participating farmers in the Project area. It will be
phased over six years resulting in the division of the procurement into a
large number of contracts of different sizes. The largest contracts will be
for road construction amounting to US$10.7 million in total, and will be made
on the basis of internàtional competitive bidding (ICB). In practice, it is
likely that local contractors will win these contracts.
3.32      Vehicles and equipment totalling US$2.7 million will be procured by
the Ministry of Agriculture. Housing and buildings will be procured by the
Ministries of Agriculture (US$3.3 million), Education (US$6.0 million) and
Health (US$1.0 million). All these will involve a large number of small
contracts that will be handled through local procedures already determined to
be satisfactory to the Bank. Generally, these items will not be suitable for
ICB because of the phasing that they require and their dispersion in the
Project area.
3.33      Aerial photographic, mapping and ground survey for the cadastral
survey will be procured through local procedures. For contracts procured
under local procedures, the Project agency will furnish the Bank, promptly
after execution, with two conformed copies of its contracts together with the
analysis of the respective bids received and the recommendations for award.
However, in any cases where individual contracts exceed the equivalent of
US$300,000 for housing and buildings and cadastral survey work, or US$150,000
for vehicles or equipment, procurement will be by ICB. Wherever feasible
contracts of a similar nature will be bulked together for bÎdding purposes.
3.34      Works related to erosion control, pasture development, irrigation,
farm and forest access tracks, markets and water points will be undertaken by
the Ministry of Agriculture under local contract or Force Account arrangements,
depending on local conditions and the type of work involved.
3.35      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these arrangements
will be followed.
Disbursement
3.36      The proposed Bank loan of US$34.0 million will be disbursed over
six years, from the beginning of 1981 to the end of 1986. The loan will
finance:



- 24 -
Disbursement
Amount     Disbursement
Category                                 (US$ Million)    (Percent)
1. Construction buildings,
and houses                                7.2       70% of total expenditures
2. Civil works for roads                       7.5       70% of total expenditures
3. Government financed
erosion control works,
farm access tracks,                       8.2       70% of total expenditures
water points markets and
forestry
4. Vehicles & equipment                         2.1      100% foreign exchange cost
and 80% of local expen-
ditures
5. Farm soil conservation
and irrigation                            2.5       70% of Covernment expendi-
tures
6. Consultants and overseas training           1.0       100% foreign exchange cost
and 80% local expenditures
7. Cadastral survey                            2.8       70% of contract expenditures
8. Unallocated                                 2.7
34.0
3.37      Disbursements will be fully documented except for work carried out
by Force Account against Categories 3 and 5 where disbursements will be made
against certified statements of expenditures with the supporting documentation
retained by MARA and held available for inspection during the course of a
Project supervision mission. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 1,
Table 8.
Accounts and Audit
3.38      The Government agencies responsible for Project implementation
maintain budgets and accounts which are audited by the Ministry of Finance.
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that each
Government department responsible for any part of the Project will maintain
separate accounts for the Project work with which it is associated, and that
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made for the audit of expendi-
tures made against certified statements of expenditures (para. 3.37).



- 25 -
H. Environmental Impact
3.39      The Project will improve the environment within the Loukkos water-
shed through its soil conservation features. It will help to reduce migra-
tion of the local population to already overcrowded urban areas elsewhere in
Morocco. The additional agricultural production within the Project area will
improve the diets of the population through increased supplies of milk, meat,
eggs, and vegetables. The planting of 3,500 ha of productive pine forests
on land now in scrub vegetation will provide additional badly-needed lumber
and wood products to the nation.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization at the National Level
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) will have
the primary responsibility for the overall execution of the Project. Within
this ministry the'lead will be taken by the Forestry Directorate which will
also be responsible for coordinating the inputs to be made by the directorates
for crop production, extension, rural equipment and land registration. In
addition, the Ministries of Education, Public Health and Public Works will be
responsible for the execution of their respective components. Finally, the
Ministry of Interior, as guardian of Morocco's collective lands, will have a
major role to play in approving and obtaining beneficiaries' compliance with
the programs for developing communal lands in the Middle Loukkos subproject
area. In order to secure effective coordination of the concerned ministries
at the central level, assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
recently created national central coordinating committee under the chairman-
ship of MARA's Director of Forestry and including representative of all the
MARA's directorates and other ministries concerned in Project implementation
will meet at least twice a year during the Project implementation period to
review progress in Project execution and to ensure effective coordination of
Project components. An organization chart of the Project at the national and
regional levels is shown in Chart 1.
4.02      Cadastral Survey.  The National Cadastral Service of the Directorate
of Land Registration and Topographic Mapping in MARA would be responsible for
cadastral survey component of the Project. An annual program of some 350,000
ha is currently envisaged of which the proposed Bank loan will support 70% of
the cost of contracts or 40% of the overall cost for 500,000 ha. Aerial
photography and mapping are carried out through contracts whereas the computeri-
zation and updating is carried out by the division's own staff. The elements
of Morocco's national cadastral survey program which would qualify for Bank
financing will be agreed upon in advance of contracting and progress of the
program will be reviewed at least annually by the Bank and Government.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
National Agriculturai
. National Project Coordir.ating Comm.ittee                   Project MAori Couring
Ministry   (Rabat)                                                                   (Directe  of Forestry)                    -     and P  aluation   Uni t
Credit                                                                 Publi  Works                   Education
L _ _        ~~Interprovi-.;cial Prijatt Cz-.-.mlttec 
Province   (Chaouen)                                                                    (Governor)
Gavernment               Provincial Agricultural Director               Agriculture                    uic lealth
Enterprises                     (Project Director)
AriCu-                                                          Land use         Amns
Live-  tural         Ruralat                                           anid            trative         Statis-
stock      Devel-          Egeer-                                            Reea  yI~îtra-   Service           tics
Il                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tion
Middle Loukkos           lipper LolksIzarene
Vork Center              Park Cétrs               Forestry
Extension               ExtensionFoetr
Agnt           AEnt3oetr



- 27 -
4.03      MARA's Directorate for Planning and Economic Affairs will be respon-
sible for setting up a national project and evaluation unit (para. 4.21) and
for carrying out the study of the impact of the Agricultural Investment Code
(para. 3.22) with the assistance of consultants provided under the Project.
B. Organization of Provincial Services
4.04      At the regional level, the Project will be executed through the
provincial administration of the Province of Chaouen, and by the local offices
of CNCA, the Agricultural Credit Bank. The Provincial Director of Agriculture
in Chaouen who is in charge of all the agricultural services in the province
will be the Project Director. He has already been appointed. An instruction
of the Minister of Agriculture creating an extension center at Asjene with
jurisdiction over the entire Middle Loukkos subproject area (including the
area falling in the Kenitra Province) has been issued, effectively extending
the authority of the Project Director to all agricultural aspects of the
Project. The Governors of the Provinces of Chaouen, Kenitra and Tetouan, who
as representative of the Government in their respective provinces have authority
to coordinate the activities of the provincial administration, will be respon-
sible for ensuring coordination of Project execution through regular meetings
of an interprovincial project coordination committee, which already exists.
This committee will include representatives of all concerned services. The
Project Director will be its secretary. Assurances were obtained that this
committee would meet at least once every three months. During preparation and
appraisal of the Project, the Governor and the administrative and technical
staff of the provincial administration have demonstrated close cooperation and
support for the Project, and implementation may confidently be expected to
commence rapidly and proceed smoothly as a result of this support. Assurances
however, were obtained during negotiations that key provincial agricul-
tural staff including the division chiefs for crops, livestock, forestry, and
rural engineering would assume their duties by September 30, 1980; and that
they should be suitably qualified and experienced.
4.05      The agricultural credit requirements of the Project will be handled
through the existing facilities which are adequate since the incremental
credit requirements of the Project are modest and can be met within the
context of CNCA's national program. The Agricultural Credit Bank (CLCA)
presently operates local branch offices at Chaouen and Ouezzane. These will be
strengthened by the creation of additional credit windows as demand requires.
4.06      The provincial administrations responsible for the roads, education,
health, water and market construction in the Chaouen Province will carry out
the Project components falling under their jurisdiction.
4.07      Agricultural Supporting Services:  Middle Loukkos.  Agricultural
extension efforts will be expanded from about 12 at the time of appraisal to
about 35 technical and extension staff during the six-year Project disbursement
period. Activities will be based on the CT at Asjene which will be the
location of the principal work center for the Middle Loukkos and will be



- 28 -
supported by three subcenters located at Hammara, Es-Sebt, and Zeitouna. Staff
will reside at the work centers and be a part of the communities they serve.
The road improvements and the provision of vehicles will assure reasonable
farmer access to Government provided services. Once the main Project activities
are successfully underway, the same staff will introduce similar soil conserva-
tion and livestock programs in other parts of the Chaouen province, effectively
reducing to a density of extension assistance ratio of one extension agent for
300 farmers. Project technicians such as the tree crop specialist, the sheep
specialist, etc. will remain in Chaouen Province, and would be available for
the Project area as required, but would principally direc their efforts to
launching development programs in other areas of the province. They would
then become a development team responsible for initiating new projects and
replicating elsewhere in the province the experience gained in the Loukkos
Project.
4.08       Services Provided.  These services will include agents trained in
crop and livestock production and farm management as well as specialists in
pasture improvement and hillside farming. Female demonstration agents will
receive additional training in nutrition and care of livestock. They will
work with rural women since it has been observed that women assume the major
responsibility for milk and poultry production in the area. Initially, the
work centers will provide custom machine services to farmers requesting them
and to special programs such as the introduction of sugar beets and communal
pasture improvement. However, following Government policy, such Government
assistance will be replaced by private operators. The main efforts of the
staff will be in extension of improved crop and livestock production tech-
niques. Initially, agents will develop farm management plans with individual
farmers and groups of farmers. Emphasis will be placed on increasing farm
profitability. Later, experiments could commence using paid village level
workers as a low cost link between the agents and the farmers. Extension
staff would also assist in organizing farmers' associations, and cooperatives
to manage collective assets and to carry out cattle fattening operations.
Each work center would have a separate farm supply center where farmers could
obtain seed, fertilizers, insecticides, tools and other supplies. Management
of these centers would be entrusted to the national seeds and fertilizer
companies until such time as cooperatives of local farmers could be created to
manage the supply of agricultural inputs.
4.09      Agricultural Supporting Services:  Upper Loukkos.   The work center
for this zone will be located at Mokrisset, the district capital of the zone
and having good access by road to the provincial capital of Chaouen as well as
to the interior of the Project area. The center will be established and
operate along the same lines as those to be established in the Middle Loukkos.
However, there will be greater emphasis on soil conservation activities and
livestock production in the Upper Loukkos. Foresters will assume an important
role in organizing the program of fruit and olive tree and forage bush plant-
ings, construction of erosion control works and pasture improvement. Livestock
agents, working with farmers, will promote better forage conservation and
utilization and more profitable livestock management which will concentrate on
introduction of milking goats for the production of cheese. Agriculturists
will extend hillside farming practices which will result in better land



- 29 -
utilization and soil conservation. The Project will provide housing, vehicles
and logistical support during the Project disbursement period for approximately
13 staff from two at the time of appraisal. They will be recruited over the
first two years of Project implementation. Once Project investments have been
completed and the objectives achieved the technical specialists in soil
conservation, and livestock will be available to work on other similar projects
in the region. Assurances were obtained that all Project staff for Middle and
Upper Loukkos subprojects will be in position by June 30, 1982.
4.10      Forestry.  The Izarene reforestation component lies almost entirely
within the Zoumi forest district of Chaouen division (a small area at the
sout4east extremity is in Ouezzane district of Kenitra Province). Three
forest stations, each of which will have a forester and an assistant forester,
will be directly involved in Project implementation. They are Izarene,
in the south central sector of the main forest block, Bellota, in the far
north of the block, and Bou Nizer, situated in a small forest area, which is
separated from the main block, in the southeast. One forester and two assis-
tant foresters will be recruited by December 31, 1980 for Bou Nizer and
Izarene. They will act under the direction of the senior forester at Zoumi
(who has two other forest stations that are outside the Project, under his
control), and the entire operation will fall under the overall direction of
the Division Forest Office, Chaouen. Each forester will prepare an annual
program of work for his area. Field operations will be coordinated by the
senior forester. Foresters will select natural forest areas for reforesta-
tion, supervise clearance operations and ensure that they meet required
standards. They will calculate their nursery stock requirements, and will
obtain seed for the nurseries locally, or through the Research Division of the
Forest Directorate in Rabat. They will also supervise all plantation estab-
lishment and operation.
4.11      Research Plantations.  Plantations that are to be established under
the forestry research program will be planted and maintained under the
supervision of the Chaouen forester, who, for these areas, will operate under
the direction of the Research Division of the Forest Directorate. Research
officers from Rabat will coordinate with the forester on the location and
density of the plantations, application rates for fertilizers, etc. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.12      Road Maintenance.  The Roads Directorate will assume responsibility
for maintenancè of the tertiary roads, and the non-classified farm access
roads. Roads maintenance equipment to be used by the Roads Directorate is
included in the Project. Farm access tracks in the Upper Loukkos Project area
and forest tracks will be constructed and maintained by the local population
on a force account basis by the Rural Works Directorate of MARA.
C. Farmers' Participation
4.13      Strategy.  A major objective of the Project will be to develop
organizational arrangements that encourage farmers' participation at both



- 30 -
the planning and execution stages in order to secure the commitment of bene-
ficiaries to the investment programs and to reduce the Government's share in
the cost of investments. The Project rationale stresses an active participa-
tion by the farmers in Project investments, based on the National Agricultural
Investment Code (Code des Investissements Agricoles), but modifying the
arrangements for execution to take into account (i) the experience acquired
since 1969 in development Projects in mountainous zones, (ii) the low level of
farm income in the Project area, and (iii) the relatively high level of
underemployment. Because of the excessive fragmentation of ownership, most of
the soil conservation components and related on-farm investments will need to
be carried out collectively and on a subcatchment basis to be effective.
Therefore, the Project's implementation methodology stresses the need for the
agricultural services to work in close collaboration with local authorities
and elected representatives of the local population in securing the adhesion
and commitment of Project beneficiaries to the overall program for a given
area. Once the programs are officially adopted by these local authorities,
they would become responsible for ensuring the effective compliance of indivi-
dual farmers. The small and fragmented nature of holdings also makes the use
of agricultural credit difficult, if not impossible, at the present time.
4.14       Several different sets of conditions will operate regarding the
farmers' contribution. First, on individually owned land in the Middle
Loukkos where there is a reasonable agricultural potential, and on irrigated
lands in both Middle and Upper Loukkos, normal conditions of agricultural
credit as applied by CNCA will apply. Second, for productive investments with
a soil conservation impact such as planting olives and fruit trees, and
establishing contour strips for forage, farmers will be expected to contribute
all the labor input, the value of which typically exceeds 40% of the costs of
investment. The farmers' share will be calculated at the official agricultural
minimum wage rate. Beneficiaries will also be responsible for maintenance
through the period before commencement of production. The remainder of the
investment cost will be contributed by Government through budget funds.
Third, with respect to the rehabilitation of the small gravity irrigation
schemes, beneficiaries will be responsible for meeting all on-farm development
costs, and the unskilled labor requirements for rehabilitating, operating and
maintaining the common elements of the irrigation system. Although the
relative share of total investment costs contributed by the beneficiaries
would vary considerably depending upon the nature of the rehabilitation to be
undertaken, it is typically expected to exceed 30% of total investment costs.
As to operation and maintenance users now maintain the existing primitive
network of canals and water gates. When repairs are necessary, local officials
organize villagers in the areas concerned to carry them out. This arrangement
has proved satisfactory and would be used for maintenance of the improvements
to the network made under the Project's irrigation component. Fourth, Govern-
ment financing will cover the whole cost of construction and maintenance of
soil conservation works, whether on private or state land. These measures
include biological control through living vegetation, or stone check dams to
halt gulley erosion, and plantation of acacia on gulley sides. This subsidy
is justified on the basis that the population actually living in the area of
the erosion control works will benefit little from the investments, whose
main effect will be to slow down the rate of erosion and in consequence the
rate of silting of the El Makhazine dam downstream on the Loukkos River.
Assurances that these conditions would be applied were obtained during
negotiations.



- 31 -
4.15      Upper Loukkos:  Soil Conservation.  The following legal actions have
been taken for the purposes of Project execution: the Project area has been
declared a "zone of national interest" (perimetre d'interet national) within
the scope of the Agricultural Investment Code, and an implementing decree
specifying the soil conservation measures to be taken both by the Government
and participating farmers, and the financial and technical obligations of each
has been issued. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above
legal arrangements would be maintained in force for Project execution.
4.16      Middle Loukkos:  Communal Grazing Lands.  The Project will improve
2,300 ha of such lands. Depending on the existing ground cover and the
methods used to remove it and replace it with higher-yielding forage species,
the costs will vary between DH 1,260 and DH 3,055 per hectare. For these
purposes the Government has issued a decree delimiting the areas on which
pasture improvement is to be undertaken and specifying the measures and
obligations of the Government and the collective owners of these lands. In
accordance with existing legislation, the Government will carry out the range
improvement program under force account and subsequently recover about 70% of
investment costs from the beneficiaries over a 5-year period through the
imposition of a head tax on livestock. Assurances that this legislation will
remain in effect were obtained during negotiations. Assurances were also
obtained that beneficiaries will be organized into grazing associations and
cooperatives will be responsible for the maintenance of pastures with the
assistance of a team of specialists. These specialists will also assist in
organizing the rights-holders into grazing associations which will control the
use of the land so improved. The precise organization and functions of these
associations will be defined during Project implementation. It is contemplated
that these associations could have the status of stock companies, shares of
which could be distributed in the form of grazing or use rights. Such use
rights would be for a given number of livestock units and this number would be
a function of the carrying capacity of the improved pasturelands. The number
could be established by the grazing association based on technical advice
provided by the pasture improvement experts and could change according to
climatic and seasonal conditions. Use rights could be transferable and could
be sold by any rights-holder to any other person. The association could
assume responsibility for pasture maintenance and could have access to credit
to cover operating costs. They could also be responsible for enforcing their
own limitations on carrying capacity. Rights-holders could pay an annual fee
which the association could levy in order to recover all of the investment and
operating costs not covered by Government subsidies.
4.17      Middle Loukkos:  Sugar Beets and Silage.  The Project includes
the production of rainfed sugar beets on 1,000 ha in the Middle Loukkos
on farms of 7 ha or more. Farmers will produce beets under contract with the
refinery as elsewhere in Morocco. The Work Centers will provide machine
services for land preparation, seeding and weeding as well as technical
assistance. The sugar beets will be processed in the refinery located at
Ksar El Kebir, about 35 km distant (Map IBRD 14879). Fresh pulp will be
returned to the Project area for ensiling and feeding to cattle.
4.18      Upper Loukkos:  Badlands.  Forestry agents assigned to the work
centers will be responsible for the extensive soil conservation works fore-
seen for 2,805 ha of the badlands located in this zone.



- 32 -
4.19      Compensation.  Since grazing will be prohibited on improved pastures
and tree plantation areas for a period of time after planting, the Government
will provide food or the money equivalent as compensation to the individual or
collective owners of these lands, most probably with the assistance of the
World Food Program (WFP) as has been the case elsewhere in Morocco. Under the
terms of the current legislation, such compensation is already provided for
and will be equivalent to the forage value of present grazing expressed in kg
of barley. The costs of this compensation, estimated at DH one million
(US$260,000) have been excluded from Project Costs but have been taken into
account in the economic analysis.
D. Training
4.20      Graduates of agricultural schools assigned to work in the Project
area will receive an additional one-year practical course in farm operation
and management at the Sahel Boutahar training center. This training is
provided for under the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project and is scheduled to begin in
1980. Trainees who successfully complete the course will be assigned to both
the Fes and Loukkos project areas. Subject matter specialists in Chaouen and
Asjene will support the extension activities in the field and establish an
in-service training program for existing extension staff using the Sahel
Boutahar center as needed. Additional on-the-job training in specialized
technologies will be provided by consultants in livestock production and range
improvement and management. These consultants will work with the specialized
teams responsible for implementing these particular components. The Project
provides financing which would permit about 12 agriculture and livestock
specialists and 12 foresters to participate in 6-9 months training programs
and visit similar projects in other Mediterranean countries.
E Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      Each department concerned will be responsible for monitoring the
progress of the components it is to execute and preparing reports that will be
submitted to the Project Director. At the provincial level, a monitoring and
evaluation system will be established in Chaouen to follow Project progress
and to assess Project performance compared to objectives except for the
cadastral survey and studies. It will provide information to Project manage-
ment and to the Ministry of Agriculture on the status of various components
under implementation, including their budgetary and staff situations, and
their work programs. It will also monitor progress in improving crop and
livestock production and advise on the factors responsible for such improve-
ment. The Forest Department has recently established a pilot area in the
Upper Loukkos in which to monitor the effects of different measures taken to
control the rate of erosion and downstream sedimentation in the El Makhazine
reservoir. It is estimated that as a result of monitoring it will be possible
to make better estimates of the benefits from the Project to the Lower Loukkos
irrigation scheme. At the central level monitoring and evaluation will be the



- 33 -
responsibility of a new unit established in the Planning and Economic Affairs
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture. This unit, established in response
to recommendations made in a Bank Agricultural Sector Memorandum, will even-
tually establish a monitoring and evaluation system covering all of Morocco's
agricultural projects and operations. Twelve man-months non-monitoring
consulting services will be provided under the Loukkos Project to assist in
establishing the monitoring and Evaluation systems. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
4.22      MARA will prepare and submit to the Bank an annual report no later
than March 31, each year, outlining the progress of the Project over the
previous calendar year both in terms of investments made and in terms of
observable benefits such as increased yields and production.  MARA will also
submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report no later than six months after
completion of the Project. Assurances of these reporting requirements were
obtained at negotiations.
V. PROJET BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Production and Income
Agricultural Production
5.01      Most of the Project's agricultural benefits would arise in the
Middle Loukkos which has a better farming potential than the Upper Loukkos.
For the sake of calculating benefits, three farm models have been chosen as
representative of the main farming types in the Middle Loukkos.
Area/Farm      Number       Percent   Total Area       Percent
2 ha     1,797            61        3,534           20
7 ha       935            32        6,362           36
36 ha        209            7         7,604          44
2,941          100        17,500         100
In the Upper Loukkos the farming pattern is fairly uniform and so a single
farm size has been used as representative. The individual holdings are about
3.5 ha of cultivated land, but when hillside rough grazing and "bad lands" are
taken into account with an area equivalent to about 5.5 ha per farmer, there
is an average of 8.7 ha per farm.
Area zer Farmer      Number      Total Area
(ha)                          (ha)
Cultivated area                 3.5              1,686         5,900
Rough grazing                   5.2                            8,800
8.7                          14,700



- 34 -
Two farm modela have been prepared for the Upper Loukkos, one with no irriga-
tion and the other including a small area of irrigation. The irrigated areas,
which are small and widely scattered in the valley bottoms of the amall
sub-basins, are farmed intensively in amall lots for vegetable and fruit
production. There are, however, a large number of farmers who do not have
access to any irrigated land and these have been considered separately from
those with irrigation.
5.02      After 10 years of Project implementation, it is anticipated that
agricultural production would rise to about twice 1979 levels and production
of the main crops would be as shown in Table 5.1. The total quantities are so
small in relation to national production and even regional production in
northern Morocco that no marketing problems are expected. The Loukkos Basin
is at present a food importing area and even after the Project it will con-
tinue to be so. However, an exception is sugar beet which will be transported
to the factory at Ksar-el-Kbir, which has already agreed to take the Project's
production of beet. Morocco is a net importer of 250,000 tons of sugar
annually and the Project's production would contribute marginally towards
reducing sugar imports.
Table 5.1:  Project Production 1979 and Incremental Production 1979-89
1989 Production              Increment (1979-1989)
Middle    Upper                Middle    Upper
Loukkos   Loukkos   Total    Loukkos  Loukkos         Total
-- -- - -- -  y- - -- --(--     -  -- -   (t) - - - - - -
CROPS
Durum Wheat          79,500    15,150    94,650    29,650         7,300   36,950
Bread Wheat          26,800          -     26,800    18,450          -    18,450
Barley               13,000          -     13,000      8,800    -5,550    3,250
Mixed Cereals              -         -          -    -13,050         -  (-13,050)
Sorghum              14,450         -      14,450      8,750         -      8,750
Sugar Beets         300,000         -    300,000   300,000           -   300,000
Olives               24,750    77,050   101,800        8,450    69,300   77,750
Figs                  3,810         -       3,810      1,270         -      1,270
Peas and Beans       53,450    12,180    65,630    33,200           950   34,150
Vegetables             7,000     6,250    13,250       1,750      4,750    6,503
MEAT PRODUCTION
Cattle                   502        165       667        289         84       373
Sheep                   420         15        435        342          7       349
Goats                    105        184       289         70        132       202
MILK PRODUCTION
Cattle                3,557        428      3,985      3,131        266    3,397
Sheep                     54          2        56         40         -         40
Goats                    132       872      1,004         97        820       917



- 35 -
Forest Production
5.03       The Forest Research Division has mensuration plots in pine planta-
tions in a range of age classes at Izarene and elsewhere, the data from
which suggest that, on the establishment and maintenance schedules proposed
under the Project, P. canariensis should produce a mean annual increment
(m.a.i.) of 10 m3/ha on a rotation of 30 years, and P. pinaster should produce
a m.a.i. of 5 m3/ha on a 35-year rotation. Project plantations would produce
a total of some 58,000 m3 of pit props and building poles from thinnings in
Years 13-20 from the commencement of the Project and approximately 960,000 m3
of sawlogs in Years 25-40.  These estimates take no account of a very consider-
able volume of fuelwood that would be produced from the lop and top of felled
trees and which is readily acceptable to local people.  Shortages of construc-
tion, mining and saw timber in Morocco are acute and timber produced from the
Project area should be readily absorbed by the local market.
Farm Income
5.04       The farm models prepared for the Middle and Upper Loukkos are
typical of the main types of farming in the Project area. The areas have
been pro-rated according to the land tenure pattern in order to give an
approximation of farm incomes in the Project area. The results are summarized
below:
Percent of                      Income from Livestock
Farm          Farm Size         Farms in                        as Percent of Net Farm
Model (ha)   Groups (ha)        Size Group  Net Farm Income  Income
Middle Loukkos                 1980        1980    1980           1980
2           less than 1 ha       21         780       1,240       26             78
2           1.0  -  2.9          40       3,110       4,970       26             78
7           3.0  -  4.9          19       4,480       8,600       17            23
7           5.0  -  9.9          13       8,390      16,120       17            23
36          10.0  - 19.9          41      11,680      30,680       12             20
36          20.0  - 49.9           2      23,360      61,350       12             20
36          more than 50 ha        1      38,930    102,250        12             20
Upper Loukkos (farms with irrigation) 1/
3.5          less than 1 ha        26         480       1,360        19            28
3.5          1.0  - 2.9            37       2,220       5,460       19             28
3.5          3.0  - 4.9            18       3,860      10,910        19            28
3.5          5.0  - 9.9            14       7,240      20,460        19            28
3.5          more than 10 ha        5       9,660      27,290        19            28
1/   Incomes of those farms without access to any irrigated land would typically
be about one-third less than indicated in the table.



- 36 -
5.05      The table indicates that about 80% of farmers in both the Middle and
Upper Loukkos are currently below the poverty threshold, whereas after 10
years about 60% only would be below the poverty threshold of DH 5,250 (US$1,380)
per rural family of 6.9 persons. Overall about 40% of incremental Project
benefits would accrue to the farmers with incomes below the poverty threshold
(35% in the Middle Loukkos and 50% in the Upper Loukkos). The dramatic
increase in net farm income would result largely from improved tree crops and
livestock production, with an increasing emphasis on sheep and goats, and in
particular, an increase in goat milk. Increased vegetable production would
also be important for those farmers with access to some irrigated land.
Financial Analysis and Farmers' Contribution and Subsidy
5.06      Due to conditions in the Project area that have already been dis-
cussed (small farms, low incomes and low repayment capacity, tribal structure,
etc), the only part of the Project on which full recovery is envisaged would
be the short and medium term agricultural credit which would be advanced by
ONCA at normal terms and conditions. Medium term credit would be for invest-
ments in machinery, comprising hand tools and animal drawn implements on the
small farms, and for tractors and tractor drawn equipment or the larger ones.
For the other farm investments, the general principle adopted in deciding the
amount of the farmers' contribution and Government subsidy is that the Govern-
ment would provide the non-labor inputs, and the farmers would provide their
labor in lieu of cash repayments. Thus, for productive soil conservation
measures (fruit trees and pasture) on steeply sloping land, and for rehabili-
tation of the small irrigation areas, the farmers unpaid labor contribution
would amount to about 65% and 30% respectively of the total investments. For
communal pasture improvement in the Middle Loukkos, the Government would carry
out the work after agreement of a work plan with the village (para. 4.13), and
would recover 70% of the costs through a head tax. Since each member of the
village has equal rights, whether a large or small farmer, all members of the
community would stand to benefit from these investments.
5.07      The financial returns to the farmers' investments are shown in
Table 5.2 both with and without Government subsidy. The table shows how the
return to the farmers' capital increases greatly as a result of the Government
subsidy on non-labor inputs. Although the financial rates of return are high,
investments in fruit trees and pastures for livestock have a long gestation
period and high rates of return would be necessary to provide sufficient
incentive to ensure full participation by the farmers.



- 37 -
Table 5.2: Financial Rates of Return of Farm Models
Middle Loukkos      Upper Loukkos  (9ha)
2 ha   7 ha  36 ha       With      Without
Irriga-   Irriga-
tion      tion
IRR with farmer contribuing
100% of investment costs         23      55    75         24         16
IRR with Government contri-
buting non-labor inputs
for tree crop development
and irrigation works and
30% for pasture improvement    31        80    80         36         22
Manpower
5.08      In addition to its effect on farm incomes, the Project would give
rise to a considerable demand for labor for construction and a continuing
demand for maintenances of the Project investments. For the investments,
incremental requirements would total 6,700 man-years of paid labor as shown
below. A further 2,700 man-years of labor would be contributed by farmers in
the Upper Loukkos for investments in farm soil conservation work and 600
man-years for irrigation investments in Middle and Upper Loukkos areas.  By
the sixth year annual maintenance would have grown to 2,200 man-years annually,
of which 1,400 man-years would be provided unpaid by the farmers for mainte-
nance of pasture improvement and farm development, and the remaining 800
man-years annually for erosion control and forest plantation maintenance would
be paid by Government at the official daily rate.
Man-Years
Middle Loukkos - Pasture Improvement            1,200
Upper Loukkos  - Erosion Control                1,200
- Farm Access Tracks             800
Izarene Forest - Plantation Development        3,500
6,700
B. Economic Analysis
Approach Adopted
5.09      The economic analysis of the Project has been made not only with the
objective of analyzing the economic viability of the Project per se but also
of examining the suitability of the Project for replication elsewhere in



- 38 -
northern Morocco and in particular for the Western Rif Mountains. Border
prices, adjusted for transport costs for Project inputs and outputs have been
used to calculate the ERR. A shadow exchange rate 7% below the official rate
was used. Taxes were deducted from all inputs and outputs and price escala-
tion has been excluded. The analysis of unskilled labor has been considered
in some detail since major parts of the Project are the labor intensive
erosion control works and farm soil conservation works. Moreover, since
Government financial assistance would be offered for these components,
it is particularly important to ascertain the effect on the ERR of the large
labor input required to carry out these works, through assigning different
values to the economic cost of unskilled labor. Unskilled labor has been
costed at half of the official minimum wage rate in the base case, and at
the full rate in the sensitivity analysis.
5.10      Wherever possible the different components have been evaluated
separately i.e. separable costs have been separated so far as is meaningful.
Thus, the Middle Loukkos and Upper Loukkos have been considered as independent
components, and also the forestry component. These three subprojects have
then been combined to give the Project base case for which the ERR is 15%
including the investments in road construction. Road costs in the Upper and
Middle Loukkos have been allocated to the respective subprojects. An economic
study of the roads was carried out by a consulting company during Project
preparation, and on the basis of the consultants' analysis which made use
of the FAO/UNDP studies the total length of classified tertiary roads and
unclassified access roads was reduced from 316 km to 180 km and the standards
for each road segment were determined. If the cost of labor is charged at its
full financial cost the ERR would be 13%. Neither the costs nor the benefits
of social infrastructure (schools, water supply, health facilities and market
improvements) have been included in the computation. Together they amount to
30% of the Project's cost.
Upper Loukkos
5.11      The Upper Loukkos is the most important from the viewpoint of
replicability, because it is so typical of the Western Rif Mountains. Invest-
ment costs would be US$500/ha, equivalent to US$4,400/holding or US$3,600/
family. Soil conservation and erosion control costs which would mainly
benefit downstream users would be US$330/ha. The base case shows an ERR of
17% over 20 years. The reasonable level of costs and the satisfactory ERR
indicate that the Project would be replicable elsewhere in the Rif Mountains.
However, in considering whether this rate of return should also be expected in
other similar areas several important 4ualifications have to be made. First,
the production of vegetables on the 400 ha of small irrigated plots has a
strong influence on the total benefits, but even without the irrigation
component the ERR would be 13%. Second, the costs of the erosion control
works, such as the large check dams in the valleys have been allocated to
downstream users. Rough estimates indicate that the life of the El Makhazine
barrage could be increased from 37 years to 42 years if the erosion control
measures in the Project are taken. These benefits will be confirmed by the
Forest Department's study (para. 4.21). Neither the costs nor the benefits
downstream have been included in the Project calculations.



- 39 -
5.12      Third, if the Project does not go ahead, it is evident that farmers'
incomes in the Upper Loukkos cannot be maintained even at their present low
level. The existing farming system is exploitive and is causing rapid and
permanent degradation of land much of which will mostly become "bad lands" if
not properly protected and managed. It is extremely difficult to estimate how
rapidly present production would decrease without the Project, but the obser-
vations of those who have worked in the Project area for several years taken
together with the evidence from aerial photographs indicates that land remains
in cultivation for a limited period only before being abandoned. Moreover,
the land now being cleared and cultivated is so steep that it is likely to
remain in cultivation maybe as little as five years before becoming permanent
"bad lands". In the base case, it has been assumed that half the existing
production in the Uppei Loukkos would be lost after eight years if the Project
does not take place. Unfortunately, little empirical evidence is available
for rate of loss of mountainous land through erosion in North Africa, but even
if it were to be assumed that conditions would be stable and that production
would remain constant without the Project, (i.e., no benefits from losses
averted), the ERR of the Upper Loukkos would be 13%.
Middle Loukkos
5.13      The subproject shows an ERR of 16%, which probably underestimates
its true economic value for two reasons. First, the road construction program
is concentrated in the Middle Loukkos and comprises two parts, construction of
non-classified farm and village access roads and construction of tertiary
roads (Map IBRD 14879). The tertiary roads will benefit a very much larger
population than that included in the Project area. In particular the CT 2641
which links Asjene to Brikcha directly will open up most of Brikcha district
(commune) to vehicular transport and dramatically improve access for trucks
reducing a present 2-hour journey to a matter of minutes. No benefits have
been estimated for non-Project road users, but if the cost of these tertiary
roads are excluded and only farm access roads remain in the calculation, the
subproject shows an ERR of 20%. Investment costs for the Middle Loukkos would
be US$700/ha equivalent to US$4,200/holding or US$2,800/family.
Forestry
5.14      The forestry component gives an ERR of 10% over 40 years, assuming
a border price of imported softwood of US$160/m3. The rate of return for
P. canariensis would be 11% and for P. pinaster, it would be 8%. The latter
would be grown on north facing slopes where it would be the most suitable
species. Present domestic prices are considerably higher than projected
prices for softwood and even after adjusting for internal transport the price
at stump is considerably below present market prices, due to restrictions in
imports. The increased forest protection measures would also reduce the rate
of erosion in the Izarene forest area by reducing fires and uncontrolled
grazing, but these have not been qualified. A 40-year project life has been
used for the forestry subproject since felling does not commence until the
trees are 30 years old, whereas for the rest of the Project a 20-year life has
been thought more appropriate. In order to include the forestry subproject in
the whole Project, the costs and benefits from years 21-40 have been discounted



- 40 -
and incorporated into the last year (20th) of the analysis of the whole
Project, so that the rate of return of the forestry component remains the same
whether considered over 20 or 40 years.
Project Sensitivity
5.15      The Project is rather insensitive to changes in the expected
values of costs or benefits of the individual subprojects. Assuming an
opportunity cost of capital of 10% in Morocco, which is probably rather high
for the agricultural sector, the switching values 1/ for costs and benefits
of the main components would be as follows:
Switching Values (Percent change)
On respective
subproject          Whole Project
Middle Loukkos - net farm income                -32                   -44
- investments                   46                     65
Upper Loukkos  - net farm income               -30                    -70
- investments                   44                    100
Forestry        - benefits                                           -370
- costs                                               400
Whole Project  - benefits                                             -19
- costs                                                24
Project Risk
5.16      The main risk is concerned with the degree of participation of
the farmers. On large numbers of areas where projects in the Rif Mountains
have been implemented over the last decade, few farmers have maintained
the erosion control works or even the olive trees planted by the Government.
On the other hand, there are strong grounds for concluding that the proposed
Project should succeed. First, the Project has been carefully planned over
5 years with the help of FAO/UNDP assisted projects, which included several
pilot areas on which erosion control measures have been installed and fruit
trees and pasture have been established. Second, in selecting the Project
area some 50,000 ha only out of a total 180,000 ha in the Loukkos Basin
were selected in order to concentrate the effort and maximize the chances
of success. Third, ground work has already been provided by the FAO/UNDP
projects, in which farmers have actively participated to help to plan, and to
participate. Fourth, the farmers' contribution, mostly in labor is not so
high as to become a disincentive. Fifth, the full support of the provincial
1/   Percentage changes which reduce the net present value to zero at a
discount rate of 10%.



- 41 -
administration including the Governor, administrative and political services
as well as the technical services provides a strong basis for launching the
Project. And sixth, the Project's organization provides for the build-up and
continuity of technical assistance and inputs to farmers in the Project
area.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
6.01      During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) suitably, qualified and experienced consultants will be appointed
(para. 3.22);
(b) contracts for road construction will be made on the basis of ICB
(para. 3.31);
(c) contracts for vehicles and equipment, housing and buildings and
cadastral survey will be made by local bidding except in any cases
where individual contracts exceed the equivalent of US300,000 for
housing-and buildings and cadastral survey work, or US$150,000
for vehicles or equipment, procurement would be by ICB (para. 3.33);
(d) works related to erosion control, pasture development, irrigation,
markets, and water points will be undertaken by the Ministry of
Agriculture under local contract or Force Account arrangements,
depending on local conditions and the type of work involved (para.
3.34);
(e)  disbursements will be fully documented except for force account
work where disbursements will be made against certified statements
of expenditures (para. 3.37);
(f) each Government department responsible for any part of the Project
will maintain separate accounts for the Project work with which it is
associated, and that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be
made for the audit of expenditures made against certified statements
of expenditures (para. 3.38);
(g) the national coordinating committee will meet at least twice per
year (para. 4.01) and the inter-provincial administration project
coordination committee meetings will be held at least once every
three months (para. 4.04);
(h) the annual program for those parts of the Cadastral Survey included
in the Project will be agreed with the Bank in advance (para. 4.02);



- 42 -
(i) all provincial level staff necessary for Project implementation,
namely, the provincial directors of crops, livestock, forestry,
and rural engineering will assume their duties by September 30, 1980;
and that their experience and qualifications will be of adequate
standard (para. 4.04);
(j) all Project staff for Middle and Upper Loukkos subprojects will be
in position by June 30, 1982 (para. 4.09);
(k)  forestry and research officers will coordinate with the forester
at Chaouen (para. 4.11);
(1) normal credit arrangements will apply for productive investments
on individually owned land in the Middle Loukkos. Farmers will
contribute the cost of labor for investments in irrigation rehabili-
tation and for farm soil conservation investments on steeply sloping
land. Farmers will repay 70% of the cost of investments in pasture
improvements on communal lands in the Middle Loukkos (paras. 4.14,
4.15 and 4.16);
(m)  grazing associations will be formed (para. 4.16);
(n) each department concerned will monitor progress of the Project
(para. 4.21), and MARA will prepare and submit to the Bank an
annual report no later than March 31, each year, MARA will also
submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report no later than six
months after completion of the Project (para. 4.22); and
(o) the existing legislation classifying the Project area a soil con-
servation control zone and delineating collective grazing lands as a
range improvement zone will remain in effect (paras. 4.15, 4.16).
6.02      Recommendation.  With the above assurances and agreements, the
proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$34.0 million for a term of
22 years including four years of grace.



- 43
LOAKJOS mtMAL IIE9LOIENT PROJECT
NOMMANT COIT TAAgeN    T ON 000 1
NODDLE LOUKKOS 8U1-P8OJECT
YEAR             9l81           1902         1903          1904          1985          1906       TOTALe
NOMICULTUOAL EXTENSION
*U   I MayT-Atmi  DBE               2664          2026           36             72             -            -         51JO
PH y  CAL tONTINSENCIES             27            303            37             7             -            -          502
PRICE EICALOTOON                     352           3J0           141            3             -             -         1059
TOTAL 1NEiT-AORIC PEU              3205          2759           543          106             -             -         6702
...........!....... .... ...........!........ ............... ........... .........
"I,E E0T61-601V 009                  292           106          1044         1132          1132          1132         551
PRICE ESC.ALAT0.                      35           I12           365          517           633           756         2470
TOTAL ESTANL-A0RIC DEY               327           99           140          14            1765          100         *OJ7
...........:...........!...........!............ ...........!...........!....... O...
TOTAL COST-AORIC DEV                3610          3757          1954         0745          1765          1800        14740
LIUE9TOCK EXTENSION
BASE INVEST-LIVESTOCrK              1483          3650          1375           69           102           102         5709
PAYlTCAL CONTINCENCIES               040           246           130             7           10            1           57I
PRICE ESCVLATIOA                     096           696          520            35            63            75         0592
TOTAL E0TABLISH1ENT COST             127          3619          2041           11           175           007         7960
....  !:........... .......... 1..... M! ......!....  !   ...
0e60  ESTl8-LIVEOTOCK                170           725          1030         1041          1056          1071         5073
PRICE ESCALA010                      20           172           340          476           590           716         2334
TOTAL ESTABL-LIOEOTOCK               190           N97         1390          1516          14            1787         7427
...........................................................
TOTAL COOT-LO0ESTOCK                2017          4516         3431          1627          1N21          1974        15317
3.Ss. S.......                    .......S      . .... .ufs.9  .......=  .^.tâ   ...... 
FARA INVESTREAT
360E 1 IVET COlT ON-FORA               -          1055          1055         1055          1905          1955         9373
PATOICAL COMTOIOENI0EO                 -           Ile 1E                                                1 0l          27
PRICE ESCALATION                       -           486           712          932          1140          1363         4433
TOTAL I0VES00  0-F0*0                  -          2526         2752          2972  0---------  -------4-3 ---------
_ ......................................................
30SE ESTAIL ON-FARA                    -           192           364          504           728           910         2730
PRICE ERCALAT0O                       -            43           127          250           407           608         1435
TOTAL ESTAIL ON-FAn                    -           220           491          796         t135           1518         4165
TOTAL COST ON-FARA                     -               2751    3243          3760         4035          4920         1999
IRRG1ATION
00E IAV-ORR0C-AOA LAbOR               -           333          333           333           333           333         1663
PHYSICAL COATAINEAC]EO                  -           33            33           33            33            33           166
PRICE ESCALATION                       -            87           128          167           205           244          031
TOTL  ANV-ORRIO-AOA LA0OR              -           453          494           533           570  .         10         2660
BASE EST-IRRI0-AOA LASOR               -            33            47          100           133           066          499
PIlCE ESCALATio1                        -            8            23            AV           74           11          262
TOTL EST-IRRIG-0 ON LAbOR              -            41            90           45           207           277          760
TOTAL COST-IRRIGTATAN                  -           494          303           679           770          RAS          3422
PASTURE I9PROVEMENT
B00  IN'VEST-PASTURE IAPR              -          1523         1523          1523          1523          1323         7613
POTTOCAL CONTIACEMCIES                 -           152           152          152           152           152          761
TRICE EOCALATOON                       -           399          5E4           765           .36         l1l9          3003
-- -- -- - - - -- -- -- -- - - - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -
TOTAL IAOEMT-PAOTLRE OAP               -          2073         2259          2440          2611         2793         12177
BASE ESTA0-PASTURE  IAPRO              -           127          254           380           507           634         1900
PRICE £SCALATION                       -            30            aa          174           283           423           99
TOTAL ESTA0-PASTURE IMPR               -           137          342           554           790          1057         2901
IDTAL COST-PASTURE IAPRA               -         2230          2601          2194          3401         3051         15070
.s s ............................    ....... =: =   ............... ....... :.~.... ..!B ......................==
ROADS-9IDDLE LOUKKOS
BASE-0IDDL LDUK OS RTUDS            6652          0469         2641             -             -             -        t7762
PHTOICAL CUNTINCENCIES               665           847           264             -            -             -         1776
PRlIE ESCOLAT00N                     37P          2217          1014             -            -             -         4109
TOTAL MIDL LOUTKUS 00000           a09          11533          3910             -             -             -        23647
=.w.............. !!   ...... !!: ....... ! ........... ........... ........... ......
B0SE-MID LOKKOU  RD RNT              100           266          333           333           333           333         1696
PRICE ESCALATTON                      12            63           116          152           136           222           751
IOT MID LDUOKOS RD MAINT            1i2            329          4 4             4           51a           55          2447
IOT COST-MID LOUkKOS RDS            5307        11. 63         4367           484           519          555         26004
....  ....... !4      . . .....         .....
OTDOLE LOULKOB SUE-PROJ
eASE INVETT-91DL LOUKOS            10801         16402         9092          3851          3012          3802        47230
FHSTICAL CONTINCENCIES              to1o          1O6           0o0           3e5           301           381         4723
PRICE ESCAL6TIOA                    0426          4405          3106         1936          2344          2801        16027
TOT I4VEST-AIDDL LOUKKOS           13307         22963        12007          6172          6537          6994        67E00
BASE ESTAB-MIIIL LOUKEOS             561          2139          3093         3531          3809          4246        174tO
PRICE ESCOLATOON                      67           509          1079         1604          2174          2836  B_79
IOT ESTAb-AIDDLE LOUKKOS             629          2648         4172          5145          6062          7032        25738
TOTAL  UIDDLE LOU6EES              10935         25611        16180         11317         12599        14074          371A
...............................................................................................................W



n  n  n  nnn n  n  n  en    nnc,n             n                         n      n,c'c                          n     c>          n      n     c,e             n        n     z           onCe,>                      A        Ir    n.1         c         cc                           o     e>. A      C      30.2
n            n        n-        -     n         , c              n      n                   n 8    ,         c             n      n             --.<c               n            n           c            ..       e               n        8        n o                         l.       .         nnn                                  
n  -  n -  , n                n     n     n ,,- n -   ,1 nln                                                        n        ,     C          8 ,                          o ,       ,     n           r        .               8..r                               r--                                                                                       
O  n    n  n1 8 n c                                     n-len,18                                                O.,,>                                                 n     î.                                        nn         .tn                                         n 
n  Cn  n rn,n                     nn         ,         m,                 n              cn                 cr      ,-            n               e n         -       eIn                 n        c     -                e      n    .           n        c     -               e     n
c  nnr            nnnn2 (            n     n            n                    n i       ,              nC                                    n     .      m     n          c                      fe                                                                                                               n
r  n e n n n n n,n  n  n n     n     n n  n                   n    n     n    n    n     n    n, n                  c       n     n  n        n    n  n..                  c~            ~ .   - .... n     n n .  ..nn.n.a... .e.n.n. .
n  n-n  nnnnî                        r          n - c c --                       n           n        n1   -'               . n       î                       ,    ..  .nn                                                    e        n     n     M n              n                e         e     n     c-                 n        n        n       .    e     - 
-  c  n.  c  ne,            n         ccl              e.ne.c..î..n. c.                                                   .  .                       .e .nz.        .n.cn .e .c.n.
n    e: n              n a   c                            n1 1 1 11       nn              n         c      nc             n         n         n        ,n                n        n                 e   nezÎ.I                   n                   na      i.
.                     ....n                                   c  . n           n       n  n..                                                                                     ..          ...       .. n.n. .nn e c nn.nn.c                     .     i    n. .                                                                                  .C.  .c. .c
n  n  C  n  n n  ,  n       n       c     ,     c       e     l                  ..e.n                c .n                                                                                                                       ......                                  . .  .ec n cn..e. .   .              i.-.
......         ..           .....           .                                                                                                    ...   8  .....



ANNEX 1
TABLE 3
-45 -
MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
---------------------------------
SUMMARY COST TABLES   ( DH 000 )
-------------------------------_.
IZARENE FORESTRY SUB-PROJECT
YEAR             1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986       TOTALE
NEW PLANTATIONS                    329          872         1227         1392         1502         1533         6854
FOREST ROADS                       240          120          120           90            90          90          750
FOREST SUPERVISION                2098           86            9             9           12          12         2226
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,
BASE INVEST-FORESTRY              2667         1078         1356         1491         1604         1635         9830
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             267          108          136          149          160          163          983
PRICE ESCALATION                   352          282          521          749          986         1201         4092
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  3285         1467         2012         2389         2751         2999        14905
BASE ESTAB-FORESTRY                346          376          393          409          431          453         2409
PRICE ESCALATION                    42           90          137          187          241          303          999
1OTAL ESTABLISHMENT COST           188          466          530          596          672          756         3408
TOTAL IZARENE FORESTRY            3673         1933         2542         2986         3423         3756        18313



ANNEX 1.
TABLE 4
-46 
MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY COST TABLES   ( DH 000 )
OTHER PROJECT COST5
YEAR             1981        1982         1983         1984         1985        1986       TOTALS
SEN1OR STAFF HOUSING
BASE INUEST-STAFF HOUSIN          600            -            -            -            -           -          600
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              60           -            -            -            -           -           60
PRICE ESCALATION                    79           -            -            -            -           -           79
TOT INVEST-STAFF HOUSING          739            -            -            -            -           -          739
..........  ........... .rasss qs .......           ..........s ........... .......====
BASE ESTAB-STAFF HOUSING            30          30           30           30           30          30          1130
PRICE ESCALATION                     4           7           10           14           17          20           72
___________ ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
FOT ESTABL-STAFF HOUSING           34           37           40          44           47           50          252
lOTAL COST-STAFF HOUSING          773           37           40           44          47           50          991
CONSULTANTS
BASE INVEST-CONSULTANTS           910          804          S04           24          24           24         2590
FHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             91           80           80            2            2           2          2S9
PRICE ESCALATION                   120         210          309           12           15          18          684
TOTAL INVEST-CONSULTANTS         1121         1095         1193           38          41           44         3533
TRAINING
BASE INVEST-TRAINING                72         364          366          366         366           66         1598
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               7          36           37           37          37            7          160
PRICE ESCALATION                    10          95          140          184         225           48          702
TOTAL INVEST-TRAINING              89          496          542          586         627          120         2460
........... .... .....= .....=ssss ...     sss ........... ......... ===..s    sss==
BASE ESTAB-TRAINING                  O          10           10           10           10          10           50
PRICE ESCALATION                     O           2            4            5            6           7           23
TOTAL ESTABL-TRAINING                O          12           14           15           16          17           73
.   ... . . .       .==s=  -=     sU x  =====  ======S  ... == . =.......... .ss s as sS    === .= = =
IOTAL COST-TRAINING                 89         508          556          600         642          137         2533
ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIP
BASE INVEST-ROAD EQUIP               -        2114            -            -            -           -         2114
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               -         211            -            -            -           -          211
PRICE ESCALATION                     -         553            -            -            -           -          553
TOTAL INVEST-ROAD EQUIP             -         2879            -            -            -           -         2879
OTHER PROJEC r COSTS
BASE INVEST-OTHER COSTS          1582         3282         1170          390         390           90         6902
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                158         328          117           39           39           9          690
PRICE ESCALATION                  209          859          449          196         240           66         2018
TOTAL INVEST-OTHER COSTS         1949         4469         1735          624         668          164         9610
BASE ESTABL-OTHER COSTS             30          40           40           40           40          40          230
PRICE ESCALATION                     4          10           14           18           22          27           95
TOTAL ESTABL-OTHER COSTS            34          50           54           58          62           67          325
TOTAL-OTHER PROJECT COST          1983        4519         1789          683         730          231         9935



r            o
e
-a-a--a-a   h--fb i-a                                                                                                                                         0>   i
b     .0  fln    rnaanj.-             b    r  ni,         najaniai      b    r  ni,    bnaaaaaair         r        rat       raraifiai errnaflbnoahaar                      b    tnt        r  laGan  G   i  i
b         r   n   - ma -rr-  a.,  rn-fl i brnn    .afia.a i erran    rafla- a -arrt    r,-  G   i
n         n-jr                  pana            n.-. î                 a,         na-ijo           onr             na-jr                 an          n.-,it                 t          n-air
i .   nbnCaacnrritnnnaa.fnrtatnaa,aoeonrritnaNaahacfla'abta    nti.aafl-iaaarr (fi i
G   O -a-h. torci-                    G-ara-a  n-arc i    oaaa-arOr g   o  rua-a  'a Gro i   Goe-araarc i    ooo   rorci
o mb  onafain                          orar oranaroror  o n tir  O-.Cflb  Cnt                                                          o-.nr  bra -  a
-  bbtaaarnojaa    -, r br -fi bn-a 'G  -. b bt t muai borbe   -arn  rorrnaaarno                                                                                             obbeanrnb    i
b  tri  oro-ait    iiaiir-'i r                                               orroro-ait                        arjiroil    i   rrOro-.                                        i arr  GrG-a
r   i rira    bair                     nnrnntr  i-i   r  r n   - brin   -'a -n r-n  -n rrn,aa.,   rrr--arri                                                                        rbi-artî    i i
-      o  -n    o  -a-ici--i          o    o  a-o    o  ..-.tiG        n    Z          t  -ri                                   -a a      r    r  -r    t  -ia-na          r    G  a-i-ua   -  -n         a
ooouioroar    b  b  r  r Gm,    b  b Gb  b Gara                                                      r  a'> O,  an car                 o  n r   n eXt    a
*           a-  -ara-  a-rGHa a    r  c 27   t r>                            eetaareei                         -a  rat   brrr                    G  r a-  r tOC                   i
t   r r triaai                             o o o n-jr                       rnttt                        rrrr-anr                         braharan-.                        r G -  G a.>G  lOi
r  z  t  Z  roi -                      aaaotta                    nantt   rafla                          -  r  -  rr                  G  O  r  G  ar   li
G           -         i  r                                  nrit   b-aonua                                                                       r  r  r  irfi                     r  r  r  fla   ira
-flat'aaaa lb                  -a--fl-ar i   t                                        a>           o-a-fi-fiG-a                                           G                                 t    i
*     a   i      N   i                h     a  i      a   i             lih    i        i                          i      ai  i            N     N         N   i             W'    h  i      N   i
Ma    a  a       ara    ta           ai              il  i              UN   N  i       fiNI    -         h    N  i       N  a             N    h  a       h  a              NaJ  h  I       UN>
hi>   fia-1   -  NanarNal             fi  fi         il  i              MN  Mn          NNiNfl-at        il    N  i       N  a             h    h  a       N  a              N    h          NOIN-aNa
fibiNO   Naira,flJ             fi    N  i      h  i              Mt   NOi-ab   hJi*eal                  h  i       h  i             h    h  a        N  a             NO   hbififlU   hbaNbflj
h-ai--r  Naiafiiflab           hi   fliiij   'juil               han  araa.an   halacqO            ha   *iiii   halai>               Ni  halai   Niai>>               N0  halta   hala-nb
*     N   i          i                         i      h   i                      i                        ai       q      h  i             h     h   i     N   i             h     h  I      h   I                          i  r
h  I      h   i                h     i   i     l  i             h        i      a   ,             h    h   I      N  i             h     N   i      h  q             *     N  i       N  i                       ' r i e
fi    h  i       h  i                 Mal-il                            fi  fi  i       h  I              h    h  I       h  I             h    N  a       h  a              N    h  I       h  i                        iCiC
*         a          a                h               'i  I                      i          i                      I      N  I             N        I      h   l             N        q      h   i                       lait
*         a      a   a                h     h  i      a   i             a    0   a      N   i             fi   h   a      fi  i            N     N   i     N   I             N     fi  i     N   I                       1312
h     h   I      fi  a                h     h  a      h   a             fi   h          h   i             N    h   i      h  I             N     h  I      N   a             M     h  I      h   >                       i r a n
*     h   i      fi  i                h     fi  i     fi  i             N    h   a      fi  i             h    N   i      h  i             h     N  a      N   i             N     N  I      h   i                       a n g e
i     h-nia-i  O            Nfl  fi  i      fiflai    -      h    N  i       h  i              h    h  i       N  i              h    N  i       N  a               a  h  i        Wr'    aU       1a    aGfl-fla
Nb    hbia,   Nain>.                 fit  Na-i   -  abiaflifl-iaJ      Et  Ma-i   -  fiNi    N           MN   h  i       fil-ai    N      N-O  N  i       Nbia-.  b         ht   hNI   N  Uh'aJa.hb          'ta   ana   aS
Nb    IhiliNO  Nbi-aaO                hO   ha, iflafla  fOi NN          NG   WNiNG   h-JiihN-a          Mal  Na-i  -  h-aibNa             NU   hra   -  Naîtra              Na'  fibil-hal  MNiGha                      '<fliC
No    N-r-at   N-jo-La                N   hwi-oa   fiafiiab-a          Mfla  a-JaaN   haaiaao-           hO   Ml-ha-aN  Na.hial-Mr        MCM  MaNia-a  hNihbN              Wb   Naib-a   NGIHIN             INa     raCle
N     fi  i      M  i                 ahi             H  a              fiai            fi  a             N    N  i       h  i             N    h  a       h  a              h    N  i       h  i                        loir
N     h   i      M   i                fi    fi  a     a   i             N    M   I      N   i             M    N   i      N  i             h     N  a      N   a             N     M  i      h   i                       a  q   i  =
M     h   i      h   a                fiai            a   i             h    N   a      M   i             M    fi  i     N   i             h     N  a      fi  j             h     N  i      M   i                       a-aiea   C        h
M     N   i      N   i                fi    N  i      fi  i             N    N   i      fi  i             N    M   i      N  i             h     N   a     N   a             N     h  a      M   i                       atahhha  3
N     M   i      fi  i                fi    h  a      fi  i             N    N   i      h   i             h    fi  i      a  a             M     h   i     h   i             N     fi  i     h   i                       acarfit
M     N   i      fi  i                a     fi  a     fi  i             N    M   i      fi  i             N    h   i      N  i             fi    N  a      N   i             h     a  a      N   i                       a    r   a    an  a   n
fiafi    h  i    hhi                  fi    N  i      fi  i             h    N  i       N  i              h    M  i       h  i             N    M  i       N  i              fi    M  i      N  i             aaieaahaa ran                h
b hN h i Ni - Nfi N i Ma-i N h i h i NN h a Nh-i - Ual h i Nafifi- ai manie
fia    MNioab   hNibre                fih-  h-ai  la  fiGîbaN           NN   M1    -  NGiflJ  o           M-a  N  i       fiai-  0>        NG   Mfi1       flaa'-iN            2  Malia   NaNalaNN             ta   ana       t
Nb NNifl hl-.iibbb fl-J fi-aiea fiNi-aN-a Nl fialaN Mb11Ja- fiN hl-aiflN MeINON hal NhNaiah hibNb Nb haiab NNINN ira ira IX
he fitibal aaOr -hOUai b-J fiflal-qaaJ fia N-Jiab h-Jjbajb No NalOt N-Jib0>t h Nbathb M'JibbN fie Nhiofi.' hJaiANb aNa ana ah
h ai ai aaî ai fi aaaoaa-i =
h  i      fi               fi    N   i      h                 N    N   a      h   i             M    h   i      N  a            a   i  ira     10
h     fil       fi  i                 f    fia        a  i              fi   fia        hi                h    hi         hi               h    hi         h  i              h    hi         Ni                  'anar'  n
fi a N i h h i N i fi fi i h i fi N i h i h fi i h i h N i M i i a a a S
h     M   i      h   i                fi    M  i      h   i             i    fi  i      h   i             fi   fi  a      h  i             0     M   i     fi  a             N     N   i     M   i            i   a      a r i a
M     N   i      N   i                il    N  a      M   i             a    M   i      fi  i             fi   a   a      h  i             h     N   i     N   a             N     h  i      M   i            i   i      lO i
h  -   N  i      N   i                fi    N  i      h   a             a    N   i      N   a             M    N   i      h  i             fi    h   a     h   a             N     N  i      N   i            i   a      i  0>  i  flN>
NO    h-ai  -  hriN   lA              hiahi           fi-a    -         fi    h  i      N  i              N    N  i       h  i             h    M  a       h  a              Nal  fi  i      hri      N       INN'       i   rfi
NO    NJia,N   hNaalth-               fiaI  lia-hi-a-a  hbabiflaj       fiaahiJi   -  M  i                Na,  fi  i      hala-  a-N       Mb  Nflfla  -  MtiN   ta          Nb   ariNal  heal-ha-NG          lOi        i-ai-a
MN    MbibN   h-air-N                 fiN  fiai-J-J  flbiNNaJ           h-a  hOabN   N  i                 Nb   Nb aNa   hNibNN             ha,  NbiaIN   NbIJi.fib           Wr   NOlalal   NaliNGN           ami
Nb    htiaa   fiNiNar                 fia  fiiOi    hNiNa-a             auj  fifii a-lb  fi   iii         fifl  Nrih-l-fi  hrii-h-ae      MN   haier   Mb iNaN              fiG  MUiNN   NaliNfi.h-O         laI
M     h   i      fi  i                h     fi  a     fi  i             a f l  i        fi  i             fi   h   i      M  i             fi    N   i     h   i             M     N  i      h   i            i  i
h  I      M   i                M     M   i     il  i             fi    h  i      fi  i             N    h   i      h  i              N    h   i      h   i             N    N   i      h  i            i   i       -
Mb    UNiel-fi  fiNaba-J              Me   haaiaja  Mh-i-iflaflj        MNhNi    -  fi  i                 Wr  fi  i       fil-flaN  NI     fil-fi  NNi   -  NNI     -        NN   MOiNai   MoarfihUt          lai
NO    h-oaa-MN  Moirane               hb   fi-Ji-Ja  hajiraN           Na-  fl-ai -J-a  fi  i            fia,  abia-afi-  fin  ONN        Mb  fiNfliJN  MNaflflO            Nb   bbib   MbibGN               ara
Mallea,  fitiaaibb             fiN  hi-J       fiaj ah-a-J       hb   flbiJb   flujiji             fit  gniaN   hoaNair              fi  NNibb   MairaN               MN   Nelat   fiaiNN-o           ia,i
Nb    MOiNt   haaNaa,                 fil-fl  h-aita   hijiboN         h*ifiaaa   -  fi  i               N-J  ha-il      Mriaj  N          MN   fiNi  -  h  i               Mb   Nbia,e   NaliNNG            ibi
fi-a   fit jaJiai  MNI -Jala          flO  hah-a-   hiajiJ              ha-i  fiNibiM       i             h-a  M-ai-a-J  MGaaalN            hN   MNa-oN  fi  i               Ne   NNiflJa,   MiNON            ata
fir    N-ai-ar   Nbara                aN   MaJi iflflb  h-ajba-J        ah-  fih-iiJa   ai.ai j           fiafiOithi  fifia                h-J  M-Jifl'b  Mliii              Ml-h  MiNb   Mearl-ab            ira
h     fi  i      fi  i                fifli           fi  a             h    M   i      fi  i             M    h   a      N  i             M     M   i     h   i             h     h  i      fi  i            i   a                           or
M     N   i      fi  i                a f l i         a   i             h    fi  i      a   i             fi  fi   i      h  i             N     M   i     M   i             fi    M   i     h   i            ii                              rX
M-a    h  i      aaia-  ai            ah-  fi  j      a  i              a    h  i       il  i             afli            fi  i            h    M  i       fi  i             ML-i  h  i      NNi      -       aGi
Nb    fibjiair  finit-aN-a            aahaaj   -  fiai-a  r             fia  h-ai       fi-a a-J          fliafli         aNa     -        Mb   h  i       fiai-a  N         NO   haififiN  firi-Jfl"J        i-ai                            Pan
aNifl'h-  abia-aN              ita  i.-a--aO  arjora-            ar   aGi-a-J   aria-fiN-a         ijO  aNihaN   fi-ai-J--a          fie  JiNal   fiGiON'i            fia  fiNiaU   h-aib-Jfi-        ara                             anG
a-a abia a-aa'al--ac fliaifi a-  a-aaba.O jr fibafi-ia lji Oa-J fia-fia a iNNH -i-oua, ha, MbirN halibfi- i-J ha,iNN fitaioh'fl- ira
arjika-fi   aibab               -r-  a-   aja-  aja-,  -ar       jr  ijri-0   a-aiiaa-              ai  airai-ar  aNiebe             ha   fibaJN   h-iaeiiO            a-b  fi-ajata   aNiOlfiN        ia                              afifl



ANNEX 1
TABLE 6
- 48 -
MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
---------------------------------
SUMMARY COST  TABLES    (DH 000)
____________________________.._
CADASTRAL SURVEY
YEAR                 1981             1982            1983             1984            1985            1986          TOTALS
CADASTRAL SURVEY
________________
BASE ESTABL-CADASTER                       4000            9000             8000                -                -               -          20000
PRICE  ESCALATION                            480            1904            2792                -                -               -           5176
FOTAL CADASTRAL  SURVEY                    4480            9904           10792                 -               -                -          25176
::Z=rS:s. ...........                                .....===  .......===...



ANNEX 1
TABLE 7
- 49 -
MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT F'ROJECT
------------------------------_.--
SUMMARY COST TABLES   ( DH 000 )
WHOLE PROJECr
YEAR            1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1986      TOTALS
-----------------------------------------------------------__-------__-------__------------------------------
PROJECT INVESTMENT
BASE INVEST-MIDL LOUKKOS       10801        16862        8092        3851         3812        3812        47230
BASE INVEST-UPPR LOUKKOS        2354         2770        4363        9327         7090        2616        28521
BASE INVEST-FORESTRY            2667         1078        1356         1491        1604        1635         9830
BASE INVEST-OTHER COSTS         1582         3282        1170         390          390          90         6902
BASE INVEST-SOCIAL INFRA        3526         5405        6896        5136         4786        4594       30344
BASE INVEST-WHOLE PROJEC       20929        29397       21877       20195        17682       12746       122827
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES          2093         2940        2188        2019         1768        1275        12283
PRICE ESCALATION                2763         7696        8399        10152       10873        9366       49248
TOT INVEST-WHOLE F'ROJECT      25785        40033       32463       32367        30322       23387      184357
PROJECT ESTABLISH COSTS
BASE ESTAB-MIDI'L LOUKKOS        561         2139        3093        3531         3889        4246        17458
BASE ESTAB-UPPER LOUKKOS         516          725         847         1103        1299        1375         5867
BASE ESTAB-FORESTRY              346          376         393         409          431         453         2409
BASE ESTABL-OTHER COSTS           30           40          40           40          40          40         230
BASE ESTAB-SOCIAL INFRA          176          508         915         1234        1535        1826         6195
BASE ESTABL-CADASTER            4000         8000        8000            -           -           -       20000
BASE ESTAB-WHOLE PROJECT        5630        11788       13288        6318         7194        7941       52159
PRICE ESCALATION                  676        2806        4638         2887        4022        5305       20332
TOTL ESTAB-WHOLE PROJECT        6306        14594       17926        9205        11216       13245       72491
PROJECT SUMMARY
TOT INVEST-WHOLE PROJECT       25785        40033       32463       32367        30322       23387       184357
IOTL ESTAB-WHOLE PROJECT        6306        14594       17926        9205        11216       13245       72491
TOTAL COST-WHOLE PROJECT       32090        54627       50389       41571        41538       36633      256849
…== = = =    = = = = =   = = = = =   = = = = =    = = = = =   = = = = =   = = = = =



- 50-                            ANNEX 1
Table 8
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Calendrier de Decaissements
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter/Decaissement
IBRD Fiscal Year and                                 Cumule en Fin de Trimestre
Quarter/Annee Financiere et Trimestre                     (US$ Million)
FY81
March 31, 1981                                                       1.5
June 30, 1981                                                       2.8
FY82
September 30, 1981                                                  4.1
December 31, 1981                                                   5.4
March 31, 1982                                                       7.4
June 30, 1982                                                       9.4
FY83
September 30, 1982                                                 11.4
December 31, 1982                                                  13.4
March 31, 1983                                                      15.1
June 30, 1983                                                      16.8
FY84
September 30, 1983                                                 18.4
December 31, 1983                                                  20.0
March 31, 1984                                                     21.4
June 30, 1984                                                      22.8
FY85
September 30, 1984                                                 24.1
December 31, 1984                                                  25.4
March 31, 1985                                                      26.7
June 30, 1985                                                      28.0
FY86
September 30, 1985                                                 29.2
December 31, 1985                                                  30.4
March 31, 1986                                                     31.3
June 30, 1986                                                      32.2
FY87
September 30, 1986                                                 33.1
December 31, 1986                                                  34.0



- 51 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 1
KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Morocco
Al.  Morocco.  Memorandum on Morocco's Agricultural Sector; Identifi-
cation of Issues and Bank Strategy. IBRD Report No. 2667-MOR
(Green Cover), November 1979.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. Projet de Developpement Integre du Bassin Versant du Loukkos en
Amont du Barrage Oued el Makhazine, FAO/PNUD, Avril 1978.
- Document de Synthese
- Annexe 1 - Composante Haut-Loukkos
- Annexe 2 - Composante Izarene (Reboisement)
- Annexe 3 - Composante Zaz (Developpement de l'agriculture et
de l'elevage)
Document Technique No. 1 - Enquete Agro-Socio-Economique
dans la Region du Zaz, Methodologie et Resultats.
Document Technique No. 2 - Les Productions Vegetales dans
la Region du Zaz, Situation Actuelle et Objectifs.
Document Technique Ne. 3 - Les Productions Fourrageres dans
la Region du Zaz, Situation Actuelle et Objectifs.
Document Technique No. 4 - Le Developpement de l'Elevage
dans la Region du Zaz.
Document Technique No. 5 - Approche Pedologique de la
Region du Zaz.
Document Technique No. 6 - Resultats Economiques des
Propositions de Developpement dans la Region du Zaz.
B2. Developpement du Bassin Versant du Loukkos - Etudes Routieres -
Etude Economique - SCET Maroc - Decembre 1978
C.   Selected Working Papers prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
Appendix 1 - Farm Model 2 ha Farm in Middle Loukkos (1979-1989)
- Farm Model 7 ha Farm in Middle Loukkos (1979-1989)
- Farm Model 36 ha Farm in Middle Loukkos (1979-1989)
- Farm Model 9 ha Farm in Upper Loukkos (1979-1989)
Appendix 2 - Cost Breakdown of Pasture Improvement in the Middle Loukkos
- Cost Breakdown of Soil Conservation Works in the Upper Loukkos



- 52 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 2
Appendix 3 - Project Costs - Middle Loukkos
Agricultural Development
* Livestock
Farm Investment
Irrigation
* Pasture Improvement
Appendix 4 - Project Costs - Upper Loukkos
Crops and Livestock
Soil Conservation
Farm Investment
Irrigation
* Erosion Control Works
Appendix 5 - Project Costs - Izarene Forestry
Appendix 6  - Project Costs  - Road Construction
Appendix 7  - Project Costs  - Other Project Costs
Appendix 8  - Project Costs  - Social Infrastructure and
Cadastral Survey
Appendix 9  - Project Costs  - Disbursements
Appendix 10 - Economic Analysis



IBRD 14879R
APRIL 1980      |
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LOUKKOS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                         oaaroura
PROJECT ZONES                                                                     Zaroura
ZZZ UPPER LOUKKOS                                                                                                                                                                                            e  CHACUEN
MIDDLE LOUKKOS (ZA
IZARENE-NEW PLANTATIONS
IZARENE-EXISTING REFORESTATION
FOREST STATIONS
~~~  VILLACES                      O                                                                 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tanakoub
VILLAGES                                                         OBoujediane
Â    WORK CENTERS
LA    SUR CENTEHS
*     liATEH POINTS                                                                                                   El Kolla C
M    HEALTH CENTEFS
®    PROVINCIAL H EADUUARTERS                               RS                                                                                                              F        e
©    COUNrY HEADQUARTERS                                             Taiouf
O    TOWNSHIP HEADQUARTERS
CATCHMENT 3OUNDARY                    KSAREL KBIR                                                                                             Sp/EN)         "
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARY                                                                             L\1                                                                                   <\t{oRÀ tS
SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY                    N                                                                                  M                                                                                   cFifm
TERTIARY ROADS IN THE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                          MOKRISSET
FARM ACCESS HOADS IN THE MIDDLE LOUKKOS
FARM ACCESS ROADS IN UPPER LS KKOS
PRIMAFRY RFOADS                                                  A             %   -
A~~Merboua o°  /~Si  
SECONDARY ROAOS
…---TERTIARY ROADS
o    2    4    t    Tir      IV KILSREToRS                                                                                                       r>)t, °      ; \     «t  g : 2TitrePt deoniron roteS tasdrnS tie
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  q` j                                                               tir repor/o 00,c tw ho attacls hewotSm
Worm ,R se on os -ffiroes _5
t     j                   Thysn ntielg?s oo  
ory hri/s ,rora p er,reoseth
orIi asrptos o! sosi  -Yoda



