OFFI   A.%T
DOCUMENW
- -LOAN NUMBER 1848 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Loukkos Rural Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Date , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1848 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, datedefflca       - 2  - a      , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Borrower)-and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions ApplicaLle to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings*therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Dirham" or the sign "DH" means the,currency of the
Borrower;
(b) "CNCA" means the Borrower's Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit
Agricole;
(c) "CLCA" means any Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole
operating as a local branch of CNCA;
(d) "MARA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for agriculture and agrarian reform; and
(e) "Project area" means the area described in Schedule 2
hereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set for -,
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a co-mmitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C,
D, E (4), (5), F and I of the Project through MARA, Part E (1)
through the ministry in charge of public works, Part E (2)
through the ministry in charge of education, Part E (3) through
the ministry in charge of public health, Part G through CNCA, and
Part H through the various departments involved, with due dili-
gence and efficiency, in accordance with Schedule 2 to this


﻿Agreement, and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, construction, and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required therefore.
(b) Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that CNCA, through
CLCA, will make agricultural credit available to farmers in
the Project area in accordance with its standard operating proce-
dures and eligibility criteria so as to meet in a timely manner
all needs for agricultural credit required under the Project.
(c) With respect to the management of the Project, the
Borrower shall take the necessary measures to ensure that:
(i) the National Project Coordinating Committee,
already established and composed of representatives
of the departments involved in the Project, will
meet at least once every six months during the
Project execution period and will be responsible
for the effective coordination of Project activi-
ties at the national level;
(ii) at the level of the Project area, an Inter-
provincial Project Coordinating Committee composed
of representatives of the departments involved will
meet at least once every three months during
Project implementation in order to coordinate the
execution of the Project, except for Parts F and I
thereof. The Provincial Director of Agriculture for
Chaouen will be responsible for the management of
the technical aspects of the Project as well as for
the Committee's secretariat;
(iii) the technical staff and extension agents will
actively cooperate with the representatives of the
villagers for the implementation of the Project
soil conservation measures and related investments
on the farm level; and
(iv) Part F of the Project will be executed under
the direction and responsibility of the Direction
de la Conservation Fonciere et des Travaux Topo-
graphiques of MARA.


﻿(d) The Borrower shall, through MARA, take all appropriate
measures (i) to continue to employ suitably qualified and
experienced technical and administrative personnel for the Project
to be in charge of agricultural development, livestock, water and
forestry, and rural engineering, (ii) to ensure that all tech-
nical and extension staff referred to in Parts A (3) and B (3) of
Schedule 2 shall be suitably qualified and experienced and shall
have assumed their functions by June 30, 1982 (or such later date
as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank) and that
all technical staff referred to in Part C (3) of Schedule 2 shall
be suitably qualified and experienced and shall have assumed their
functions by June 30, 1981 (or such later date as may be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank), and (iii) to ensure
proper coordination for the execution of Part C (2) of the
Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts D (3), H and I of the Project, the Borrower shall employ by
June 30, 1981 (or such later date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Bank), consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that each of the Ministries of
the Borrower responsible for the execution of the Project in
accor.4ance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out -,f such proceeds.
(C) Promptly after the end of each calendar year, but in
any event not later than March 31 of the following year, the
Borrower, through MARA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detai-l as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and operation of the Project,
and stating the investments and expenditures incurred under the
Project during the previous calendar year.
(d) Promptly after compleCion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower, through MARA, shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through MARA and the Ministry in
charge of the Interior, shall cause the necessary measures to be


﻿-6-
taken to develop and implement the program of collective grazing
lands referred to under Part B (3) (b) of the Project.
Section 3.07. With respect to Part F of the Project, the
Borrower and the Bank shall agree from time to time on the parts
of the program to establish a national land register which will be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. In any event, such
agreement shall be reached prior to the publication of the request
for bids for such parts. Progress of the national cadastral
program shall be reviewed annually between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 3.08. With respect to the carrying out of Parts A (1)
(e) at-d B (1) (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
beneficiaries to carry out the on-farm development works and
maintenance and to contribute the non-skilled labor necessary for
the construction, operation, aznd maintenance of the off-farm
components of the irrigation system.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which w4.ll or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
described in Categories 3 and 5 of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditures as set forth in Part E of Schedule 4 hereto.
(b) With respect to the separate accounts referred to
in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
(i) such accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Borrower's Ministry responsible for finance; (ii) a
detailed report of such audit to be prepared by said Ministry and
to be furnished to the Bank, not later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year, such report to include, inter alia, a
separate opinion by said Ministry in respect of such expenditures
showing whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account for the purpose of such works have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) to be furnished to
the Bank such other information concerning such accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank may from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall retain, until at


﻿-8-
least one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are or have been
requested from the Loan Account for the purpose of works carried
out by force account (as set forth in Schedule 4 hereto) and shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to inspect such
records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all facilities,
equipment, roads, and works included in the Project to be at all
times staffed, operated and maintained in accordance with appro-
priate agricultural, technical, training, traffic, education, and
public health practices, shall cause all necessary repairs thereof
to be made, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
Section 4.04. For the purposes of carrying out Parts A and B
of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain in effect the decree
classifying the Project area as a soil conservation control zone
("perimetre de defense et de restauration des sols dtint6ret
national"), the decree classifying and delineating the collective
grazing lands as range improvement zones ("perimetres d'ameliora-
tion pastorale"), and the "arretes" for the implementation of
said decrees, it being understood and agreed that (a) the bene-
ficiaries' contribution to the realization of the productive soil
conservation investments referred to under Part A (1) (c) (d) (f)
of the Project will consist of the provision of their labor, (b)
the beneficiaries will be responsible for carrying out the main-
tenance of all such productive soil conservation investments, and
(c) the Borrower will finance the whole cost of construction and
maintenance of erosion control works referred to under Part A (1)
(a) (b) of the Project, whether on private or state land.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that any of the follow-
ing shall have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
Project: Dahir No. 1-69-25 of July 25, 1969 of the Borrower, the
decrees promulgated in connection therewith, Dahir No. 1-69-170 of
July 25, 1969, and Dahir No. 1-69-171 of July 25, 1969, the


﻿-9-
decrees and arretes promulgated in connection therewith, and
the decrees and arretes referred to in Section 4.04 of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any
of the events specified in Section 5,01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 90 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date     4AL e   !   / 9OP, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES                31936
Rabat, Morocco


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By                   I
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Construction of               7,200,000        70%
buildings and
houses
(2) Civil works for               7,500,000        70%
roads under Part E
(1) (a) (b) of
the Project
(3) Erosion control               8,200,000        70%
works, forestry
development, irri-
gation improve-
ment, pasture im-
provement, con-
struction and
improvement of
markets and water
points, and farm
access tracks under
Parts A (1) (a) (b),
A (2) (a), B (1)
(c), C (1) (a) (b)
(c) (e), C (2), and
E (4) (5) of the
Project
(4) Vehicles and                  2,100,000        100% of foreign
equipment                                     expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       7xpenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(5) Soil conservation,           2,500,000        70% of Govern-
irrigation under                             ment expendi-
Parts A (1) (c) (d)                          tures
(e) (f) and B (1)
(d) of the Project
(6) Consultants and              1,000,000        100% of foreign
training abroad                              expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(7) Cadastral survey             2,800,000        70%
(8) Unallocated                  2,700,000
TOTAL      34,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
.(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrowr.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,


﻿- 13 -
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $800,000
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4) and (5) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after October 15, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures provided, however, that the Bank
shall not make such reallocation to or from Category (7) without
the prior agreement of the Borrower; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Except for Part F of the Project, the Project area comprises
about 59,000 ha of the Loukkos basin in northwestern Morocco. It
is divided into three subproject areas: the Upper Loukkos (about
15,000 ha), the Zaz Valley or Middle Loukkos (about 31,000 ha),
and the Izarene Forest (about 13,000 ha). Part F will cover such
areas as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is designed to increase incomes and productivity
of farmers living within the Project area. This will be accom-
plished through soil conservation measures designed to improve the
present farming practices. The Project is also designed to improve
social infrastructure in the Project area and to finance a slice
of the national cadastre program.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Upper Loukkos
(1) Agricultural practices and investments:
(a) establishment of firewood and forage plants on
about 2,800 ha of badly eroded lands and hillsides;
(b) construction of stone terraces on about 1,500 ha
of cultivated lands and of some 3,500 stone check
dams in rapidly eroding gullies;
(c) establishment of contour strips of pasture and
forage bushes (about 1,050 ha) on steeply sloping
cultivated lands and establishment of permanent
pasture on about 300 ha of eroded land;
(d) establishment of fruit trees, particularly olive
trees, on about 2,250 ha;
(e) improvement of simple gravity irrigation systems
on about 400 ha;
(f) crop improvement on about 5,000 ha of field
crops; and


﻿- 15 -
(g) construction and equipment of a goat breeding
station for the introduction and development of
milking goats.
(2) Infrastructure
(a) construction of about 73 km of farm access tracks
and provision of equipment for the construction and
maintenance of such tracks;
(b) construction of a work center, housing and offices,
and provision of equipment and vehicles, for
the staff at the work center of Mokrisset, and
construction of a farm supply center.
(3) Agricultural Support Services
(a) the agricultural support services (foresters,
agricultural extension staff and livestock
experts), serving the Upper Loukkos area from the
Mokrisset work center will be expanded to about 13
over the first two years of Project implementation.
The agricultural support services will emphasize
particularly: (i) fruit tree plantings, forage bush
plantings, construction of erosion control works
and pasture improvement; (ii) better forage conser-
vation and utilization and profitable livestock
management by concentrating on the introduction of
milking goats for the production of cheese; and
(iii) application of hillside farming practices
resulting in better land and water utilization and
soil conservation; and
(b) establishment of a separate farm supply center at
the Mokrisset work center for the sale of seed,
fertilizers, insecticides, tools and other sup-
plies.
Part B:   Zaz Valley
(1) Agricultural practices and investments:
(a) development of field crops on about 17,500 ha,
including the planting of about 1,000 ha of sugar
beets, and the introduction of mechanized hay and
silage making;
(b) introduction of contour farming;


﻿- 16 -
(c) improvement of about 2,300 ha of collectively owned
grazing land, particularly through shrub clearance,
reseeding, and improved management practices;
(d) rehabilitation of simple gravity irrigation on
about 250 ha; and
(e) construction and equipment of cattle serving
centers, an artificial insemination station for
cattle, and a sheep breeding station for the
introduction of improved sheep breeds.
(2) Infrastructure
Construction of a work center, housing and offices,
and provision of equipment and vehicles therefore,
at Asjene and at three sub-centers in Hammara, Es Sebt,
and Zeitouna, and construction of a farm supply center
at Asjene.
(3) Agricultural Support Services
(a) the agricultural support services serving the
Zaz Valley will be increased to about 35, including
technical management staff;
(b) extension agents will assist farmers in improving
crop and livestock production techniques, with
emphasis on increasing farm profitability and
introducing soil conservation practices; they
will also assist farmers and rightholders to
collective lands in organizing farming and grazing
associations and cooperatives, and, eventually, in
engaging in cattle fattening operations and the
management of cattle serving centers; and
(c) establishment of a separate farm supply center at
each work center for the sale of seed, fertilizers,
insecticides, tools and other supplies.
Part C:   Izarene Forest
(1) Plantation establishment, maintenance and protection:
(a) vegetation clearance of about 3,500 ha with intro-
duction, on an experimental basis, of mechanical
strip clearance;


﻿- 17 -
(b) plantation of pines on all cleared areas;
(c) establishment of 25 km of access tracks and pro-
vision of equipment necessary for the construction
and maintenance of such tracks;
(d) reinforcement of forest protection measures;
and
(e) maintenance of existing plantations (about 3,400
ha) and undergrowth clearing in all plantations
established in 1972-1978 (about 1,600 ha).
(2) Research
Approximately 120 ha of research plantations will be
established during the first three years of the Project
to test new forest establishment and maintenance tech-
niques developed in other parts of the Mediterranean
Basin, including (a) avoidance of the use of planting
trenches, (b) increasing planting density to 1,110/ha,
(c) application of mineral fertilizer at planting,
and (d) experimentation of forestry management techni-
ques.
(3) Forest Management
One district chief each for Bou Nizer and Izarene, and
two assistant foresters each for Bou Nizer and Izarene
will be recruited for the Project. With respect to the
plantations established under the forestry research
program, research officers from the Forest Research
Division of MARA will continue to assist the work of the
local foresters.
Part D:   Training and Technical Assistance
(1) Graduates of agricultural schools assigned to the
Project will receive an additional one-year practical
course in farm operation and management at the Sahel
Boutahar training center. Subject matter specialists of
the Chaouen agricultural support services will establish
an in-service training program for existing extension
staff. Additional on-the-job training in specialized
technologies will be provided by consultants in live-
stock production and range improvement and management.


﻿- 18 -
(2) About twelve agricultural support staff members respon-
sible for the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the
Project shall be provided with short-term trainee-
ships abroad.
(3) Assistance shall be provided to the agricultural support
services serving the Project area as and when needed,
particularly with respect to the establishment of goat
cheese factories, the improvement of grazing lands, and
the training of instructors for the extension staff,
through the provision of short-term consultant services
for an aggregate of about 48 man-months.
Part E:   Infrastructure
(1) Roads
(a) construction of about 58 km of all-weather unpaved
farm access roads in the Upper Loukkos;
(b) construction of (i) 68 km of tertiary roads: 27
km of CT 2670 connecting the Zaz Valley subproject
area with Mzefroun and the RP 23 primary road,
and 41 km of CT 2641 linking Asjene with Brikcha,
and (ii) 54 km of unpaved all-weather farm and
village access roads in the Zaz Valley; and
(c) provision of road maintenance equipment for main-
tenance of non-classified Project roads.
(2) Education
Construction, equipment and staffing of 11 new primary
schools and expansion of 5 existing ones for a total of
about 53 new classrooms, and construction of about 45
lodgings for teachers.
(3) Health
Construction, equipment and staffing of a new rural
health center, two dispensaries and 8 lodgings for
nurses.
(4) Water
Rehabilitation of approximately 40 water points each
comprising a drinking fountain, clothes washing facil-
ities and an animal drinking trough.


﻿- 19 -
(5) Markets (Souks)
Construction of a market at Asjene, and improvement
of markets at Sebt Brikcha and Mokrisset through
the construction of buildings, stores, a small slaugh-
terhouse and their connection to the piped potable water
system.
Part F:   National Cadastre
Aerial and ground surveying of approximately 500,000 ha
of land to be carried out as part of the Borrower's on-going
program to establish a national land register.
Part G:   Credit
Short-, medium-, and long-term credit for the Project will be
provided through the CLCA serving the Project area. Additional
credit windows will be opened as warranted by demand.
Part H:  Monitoring Evaluation
All Project activities shall be monitored by the departments
responsible for their execution. Periodic reports will be fur-
nished to t7he Project Director who will forward them to the
monitoring and evaluation unit established for the Project
within the Planning and Economic Affairs Directorate of MARA
for the purpose of enabling it to evaluate the implementation of
the Project. This Unit shall also establish a program for moni-
toring and evaluation of projects at the national level.
Part I:   Study of the Agricultural Investment Code
MARA will review and evaluate the impact of the Agricultural
Investment Code since its promulgation and, if appropriate,
recommend modifications thereto.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1984
through   September 1, 2001                  945,000
On March 1, 2002                                 925,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.10%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          2.25%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                            4.10%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         6.00%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                        7.50%
more than twenty years
before maturity
More than twenty years                                 8.25%
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Grouping of contracts: contracts for vehicles, equipment,
housing, buildings, and cadastral surveys shall, whenever prac-
tical, be grouped to form appropriate bid packages. Bidders shall
be allowed to bid for one contract or a combination of contracts.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,_
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
Group B: all other domestic bids.
Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 24 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule:
1.   Vehicles, equipment, housing, buildings and the cadas-
tral survey may be procured in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the cost of
individual contracts is equal to or less than the equivalent of
$300,000 for housing, buildings, or the cadastral survey and
$150,000 for vehicles or equipment.
2.   Works relating to erosion control, pasture improvement,
clearing and forest establishment, irrigation, water points,
market construction and improvement, and farm access tracks to be
financed under Categories 3 and 5 of the table of paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement will be procured in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Bank or by force account
as provided in Part E hereof.
3.   With respect to all contracts procured under this Part
C, the Borrower shall cause the Bank to be furnished, promptly
after execution, with two conformed copies of the contracts
together with the analysis of the respective bids received and
the recommendations for award.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for road construction -nder
Category 2 of the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1, and with
respect to all contracts for housing, buildings, or cadastral
survey in excess of $300,000 equivalent, and with respect of
all contracts for vehicles or equipment in excess of $150,000
equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together


﻿- 25 -
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 26 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform tha Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
9.   Procurement Without Contracting
Works to be financed under Categories 3 and 5 of the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement may h2 carried
out by the Borrower by force account. Each withdrawal application
with respect to works carried out by force account shall be
supported by a certificate of expenditure listing the expen-
ditures on account of which the withdrawal is requested and
certifying that they were made for the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  M&    198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


