V  --     ;          Document of,
'-The World'Bank=-, 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repors No. 7990-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
/      ~~CHINA
MID-IYANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JULY 17, 1990
Country Department III
Asia Regiotal Office
Agtic@ttural Operations Division
Thi document h  a residted distibl  and may be used by redpienb ondy in the peioranae of
thei offical duties Us conteuts may no ohwise be diosed witout Wodd Eank authmorton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00  Y4.72
Yl.00 - US$0.21
FISCAL YEAR
January l to December 31
'WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (fi)    - 3.28 feet (ft)
lkilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)   - 2.47 acres
1 mu             - 0.067 ha
1 to  (t)       - 1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 kg             - 2.2 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVI4TIONS AND ACMONY1S USED
ABC           -  Agricultural Bank oE'China
ATEC          -  Agriculture technical Exteonssion---Center
BOF           -  .Bureau of Finance
CAAS          -  Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CEROILS       -  China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and
Export Corporatioxi
CRI           -  Citrus Research Institute
CFDC          -  County Fruit Development Corporation
DAP               Diammonium Phosphate
FAC/CP        -  FAO/Vorld'Bank Cooperative Programme
FAO/ISP       -  FAO/Tnvestment Support Programme
FTB           -  Foreign' Trade Bureau
GOC           -  Government of China
GVAO          -  Gross Value,of Agricultural Output
JPMO          -  Joint Project Management Office
1GB.          -  International Competitive Bidding
MACHIMPEX     -  Chin,a National Machinery Import Export Corporation
MOA           -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           -  Ministry of Finance
MOFERT        -  Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
PFDC          -  Provincial Fruit Development Corporation
PLG           -  Project Leading Group
PMO           -  Project Management Office
SPC           -  State Planning Commission
STC           -  Scientific and Tecmnical Committee
WCD           -  Water Conservancy'Department
\~~~ 



CHINAw                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MID-XANZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROBJECT
Credit aPInd rj ec t Summar
borrower:        People's Republic of China
Benefiglaries:   Sichuan and Hubei Provincial Governments and Chongqing
Municipality
Mgjant:          SDR 48.6 million (US$64 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlending Tm: From Government to the Provinces/Municipality: 17 years,
including seven years of grace, with interest at 5.51 p.a.
Onlending rates to final beneficiaries would be no less than
Agricultural Bank of China charges on subloans for similar
purposes with similar maturities.
Objectives and   The project objectives would be to increase production,
Descrigtion:     productivity and marketability of fruit in low income areas and
thus increasi .acome and alleviate poverty. It would do this
by structuring production so as to satisfy domestic and export
demand for quality, variety and seasonality and by stimulating
the development of effective marketing institutions. The
project would: (a) develop 11,986 ha of new orchards on
presently uncultivated hilly slopes and rehabilitate 2,473 ha
of existing ones (about 801 of the planted area would be citrus
and 201 lychees, longans, pears, loquats, plums, yellow peaches
and kiwi); (b) increase the provincial Agriculture Bureaus'
abilities to identify, propagate and distribute healthy,
disease-free planting material, to institutionalize virus
indexing and budwood registration programs, and to provide
technical assistance for rcsearch and extension and training
for managerial and technical staff in all aspects of fruit
development and marketing; and (c) establish new and strengthen
existing commercially independent Fruit Development
Corporations including three new joint stock companies to
market quality fruit in local, distant and export markets by
introducing modern post-harvest techniques, packing and storage
facilities. X
B-ane-fits        At full development, new orchards developed under the project
and-Risks:       would produce annually 260,000 tons of citrus valued at US$61.5
million and 48,000 tons of other fruits valued at US$15.3
million. Incremental production from rehabilitated orchards
would be 42,000 tons valued at US$10.8 million. Per capita
incomes would increase by an average of 180X for 130,000 poor
families. Beyond this, significant employment would be created
in all three project areas. The development of hilly areas
with contouring and terracing would improve environmental con-
ditions. The project would also provide a replicable model for
other fruit production areas.  No major risks are anticipated.
This document has a restrict6d distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of  *,    I    Its ci  ts  r not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost                             Local        Forein       otal
------------ (US$ million)-
Nurseries and Mother Tree Gardens            1.1          0.9         2.0
Orchard Establishment                       50.8         39.3        90.1
Orchard Rehabilitation                       5.3          6.8        12.1
Marketing Facilities                         5.3          6.2        11.5
Institutional Support                        2.1          3.0         5.1
Base Cost a/                         64.6        56.2        120.8
Physical Contingencies                       1.4          1.6         3.0
Price Contingencies                          7.1          6.0        13.1
Total Project Costs                  73.1        63.8        136.9
gxJaning Pl                              Loal        Forei:         T 1ota
------------ (US$ million)------
IDA                                     0.2        63.8         64.0
Provincial/Municipal Governments        7.5          -           7.5
Prefecture Governments (Sichuan)        2.5          -           2.5
County Governments                     25.9         -           25.9
Agricultural Bank of China             13.0          -          13.0
Beneficiaries                          24.0          -          24.0
Total                           73.1         63.8        136.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Baa.kIDA FY            I991    192.    1993    1994   12995
Annual                 13.0    19.0    21.0      8.0      3.0
Cumulative             13.0    32.0    53.0    61.0    64.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Citrus: 32%, Other Fruits: 34%, Rehab Orchards: 49%
Overall Project 34%
a/ Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CHIN
KID-YANGTZE AGRICULT          DEVELOPM    ROJICT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND         ..............................                  1
A.  Introduction .................................                 1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ..........................             1
C.  The Fruit Sector .................................             2
D.  Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending ....          .........   4
E.  Agriculture in Sichuan, Chongqing and Hubei   5...... 
F.  Project Rationale ................................             7
II.  THE PROJECT AREAS ....................................              7
A.  Location of Project Areas ........................             7
B.  Climate, Topography, Soils and Water Resources  ...            7
C.  Land Use, Farm Size and Population ....          ...........   9
D.  Present Development ..............................    10
E.  Infrastructure ...................................    13
F.  Marketing .........         ...............................    13
G.  Horticultural Support Services .....           ..............    14
III.  THE PROJECT ..........         ................................    16
A.  Project Objectives and Relation to the Sector  ....    16
B.  Project Description ..............................    16
C.  Detailed Features ................................    17
D.  Cost Estimates ...................................    22
E.  Financing .........         ...............................    23
F.  Procurement ......................................    23
G.  Disbursements ....................................    26
H.  Implementation Schedule ..........................    27
I.  Accounts and Audits ..............................    27
J.  Environmental Impacts ............................    27
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......... .........    28
A.  Project Organization .............................    28
B. Financial Management .31
C. Execution of Project Works.32
D.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting .............    32
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ......... .. ............    33
A.  Production .........         ..............................    33
B.  Markets ..........        ................................    35
C.  Marketing for Exports ............................    37
D.  Prices .       ...........................................    39
…-_  --  - - --  - - --  - -- -  - -  .  - --_     _-_-_-_-_-_-             .  _
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in May/June 1989.
Members of the appraisal team included H. Eisa and R. Jaisaard (IDA) and Zhou
Weiguo (RMC). Others involved in the preparation and preappraisal were B.
Downs (FAO/ISP), J. Klindt, C. Youtsey;and L.Stafford (consultants).



Page No
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...................    42
A.    Benefits  ........................................  42
B.  Employment and Incomes ......    .....................    42
C. Cost Recovery ...............                       44
D.  CFDCs Cash Flow ........  .......................... 44
E.  Financial and Economic Analyses .....  ............    44
F.    Risks  .............. .............................  48
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........    49
Text Tables
3.1  Phasing of Nurseries, Orchards Establishment
and Rehabilitation
3.2  Summary of Project Costs
3.1  Procurement Profile
5.1  Yields, Planted Area and Production by Province
5.2  Domestic Prices of Fruit
6.1  Summary of Financial Analysis Results
6.2  Summary of Economic Analysis
Armnexes
1.  1 Basic Provincial and Project Area Statistics
2. 1 Cost Summary by Component
2 Cost Summary by Expenditure
3 Cost Summary by Year
4 Cost Estimate for Training
5 Procurement Summary
6 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.  1 Crop Budgets
2 Farm Models
3 Border Prices for Inputs and Outputs
4 Main Conversion Factors
5 CFDCs Cash Flow
6 Rent and Cost Recovery
7 Economic Costs and Benefits
8 Key Indicators
gharts
1. Implementation Schedule
2. Organization
3. Procurement Schedule
___        IBRD No. 21726 Project Areas



-v
Vorkvijg Pspers
I.  Virus Indexing and Nursery Development, Establishing of
New Orchards and Rehabilitating of Existing Ones
II. Fruit Production in the Project Areas, Constraints to
Development and Future Development with the Project
III. Marketing and Post-Harvesting Aspects, International Market
IV. Infrastructure and Rural Engineering Aspects
V.  Project Organization and Management
VI. Detailed Project Cost Tables
VII.  Detailed Financial and Economic Analyses
Related Documents in the Project File:
1. China, Citrus Development Study, Sector Review, FAO/CP March
20, 1987.
2. Feasibility Study Report on the Project of Agricultural Development
in the Areas of the Upper and Middle Reaches of the Yangtze River
with Bank Loans, MOA, Beijing, August 24, 1988.



CHIN
Ul)-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGPROUND
A.  Introduction
1.1       The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing a fruit production and development project in Sichuan and Hubei
provinces and Chongqing Municipality (Sichuan Province). The project, covering
29 counties, would (i) establish new high-standard orchards and rehabilitate
existing ones in order to increase high-quality fruit production, (ii) invest
in post-harvest facilities and strengthen management of fruit development
corporations to resolve post-harvest and marketing problems, and (iii)
strengthen research and extension institutions to identify, propagate and
distribute virus-free planting materials. The project, based on an FAO/CP
citrus study of March 1987, was presented to the Bank in October 1987. It was
prepared by the Sichuan, Chongqing and Hubei Bureaus of Agriculture, with.
assistance from concerned counties and institutions, and, in the course of
preparation, its scope was increased to include a number of fruits besides
citrus. A Bank preparation mission visited the project areas in October 1988.
The project was preappraised in February/March 1989 and appraised in May 1989.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.2       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance for over one billion people; it is an important
source of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30%
of the country's GDP. Only about 137 million ha of China's land area of 960
million ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive with heavy inputs of
labor, chemical and organic fertilizers, small machinery and water. Nearly
half of the cropped area is irrigated. Foodgrains occupy about 70% of total
cropland and account for about one-third of the agricultural output. Intensive
farming has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population, about 22% of the world's total, and to produce an increasingly
sophisticated mix of cash and commercial crop from less than 11% of the world's
arable land. China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the
agricultural sector, provide an impressive growth and structural change through
the introduction of the production responsibility system, increased producer
prices and enlarged the role of the market. The gross value of agricultural
output (GVAO) increased by 83% in real terms during 1978-88 at an average
annual rate 5%, substantially more than that of the previous 25-year period
(3.2%).  While significant growth has been achieved, the Government's central
concern in recent years has been stagnating grain production, which peaked at
407 million tons in 1984.  Production, thereafter ranged between 391-402
million tons.   Major efforts have been made to bring the production back to
the 1984 level and grain production rebounded in 1989 to reach 407.9 million
tons an historical record.
1.3       Recent government strategies to increase grain production include
diverse measures such as increasing state investment in agriculture, mainly in
irrigation expansion and rehabilitation, and introducing partial reforms in
grain procurement, distribution, price and subsidies. Local governments in
particular have placed high priority on investments in uplands, natural



-2
pastures, and water surfaces for expanding production and productivity of
nonstaple food and commercial crops to meet growing demand for these
commodities, increase local entity profits and farmer incomes, and help
alleviate the pressure on the demand for grains. Unlike in the past,
government policy increasingly emphasizes that cropping must be commercially
oriented and match with local agro-ecological conditions. This has enabled
China to achieve significant increases in the sown area, productivity and
output of major industrial crops and truits.
C. Fruit Subsector
1.4       The fruit  roduction area, which occupied 22% of the total land u,3ed
for industrial cropsy in 1988 (5.1 million ha out of 21.5 million ha),
increased remarkably from 1.7 million ha in 1978 to 5.1 million ha In 1988,
with an annual growth rate of 11.4%. Production also increased rapidly from
6.6 million tons in 1978 to 16.7 million tons in 1988, an annual growth rate of
10.9%. Yields of mature orchards also grew significantly; a very rough
estimate is that they grew at about 4.4% per annum during the period.r This
rapid expansion of fruit production is large'ly due to the major economic
reforms which improved producer incentives through the production
responsibility syvs.em, de-control of fruit marketing and prices and
encouragement of regional specialization. Whereas previously priority had been
given to production of staple foods - to the virtual exclusion of other crops -
the new policies have encouraged cropping matched with the agro-ecological
conditions of particular areas. The policies have aimed to both improve sma'l
farmers' incomes and living standards and to provide consumers with a more
varied and higher quality diet. From 1978 to 1988, market fruit prices rose at
an annual average rate of 10%, considerably faster than the rate of inflation,
indicating that growing demand is not being met at prevailing prices.  High and
rising prices are major incentives for planting new orchards. Major fruit
producing areas are in Shandong, Sichuan, C-uangdong and Liaoning provinces.
Major fruits are apples (32%), citrus (19%) and rears (10%).  Bananas, longan,
lychee, grapes and other fruits occupied 39% of the area planted to fruit.
1.5       Aggles:  Apples are a major fruit, occupying 33% of the fruit
production area, with 26% of total fruit production. From 1978-1988, the area
planted to apples increased from 0.7 million ha to 1.7 million ha, and
production increased from 2.2 to 4.3 million tons. The major producing areas
are in Shandong (27%), Hebei (13%), Henan (11%) and Shaanxi (9%). The
remainder 40% are produced by twenty other provinces.
1.6       itrus:  Citrus is reported to have originated in Chinaa and the Malay
Archipelago and occupies 18.9% of the area in fruit production, and is 15.4% of
total fruit production. Since 1978, citrus production has been one of the most
profitable and fastest-growing subsectors of Chinese agriculture.  The
r    In Chinese usage, "industrial" crops include fruit from orchards., cotton,
oil bearing crops, hemp, sugar cane, sugar beet, tobacco, silk, and tea.
2    After the period of rapid growth of orchard establishment from 1978-1988,
perhaps one-third of the area planted to orchards had not reached maturity.
Assuming that all hectarage was bearing in 1978, the rate of growth of mature
hectarage was therefore roughly about 6.5%, 4.4% slower than the rate of growth
of production of 10.9%, indicating a rate of increase of yield of 4.4%.



-3-
production area expanded from 0.2 million ha in 1978 to 1.0 million ha in 1988
(18% annual growth rate). The gross value of citrus output was about Y5,422
million (US$1,465 million)in 1988 or about 1.1% of the gross value of national
agricultural output in that year. At present, the main citrus producing areas
are along the Middle Valley of the Yangtze ri-er [in Sichuan (17%) and Hubei
(8%) Provinces], in the south Yangtze region [Jiangxi (6%), Hunan (15%) and
Guangxi (6%) Provinces], and in the southern coastal region [Thejiang (13%),
Fujian (10%) and Guangdong (20%) "rovinces]. The eight provinces listed
account for around 95% of the planted area.
1.7       Pears:  Pears occupy 10% of the fruit production area and are 16% of
total fruit production. Pear production over 1978-1988 increased from 1.5 to
2.7 million tons, a growth rate of 6%. The major producing areas are in Hebei
and Shandong.
1.8       Bananas:  Production also increased substantially, from 85,000 tons
in 1978 to 1.8 million tons in 1988, an annual average growth rate of 38%.
Total banana planted area in 1987 was about 152,000 hectares and the major
producing areas are in Guangdong Province (74% of total planted ar-,a).
1.9      Lychee and Longan:  Lychee and longan originated in China and have a
planting history of 2000 years. Chinese lychee production accounts for 80% of
world lychee production out only 1% of total domestic fruit production. The
major producing areas for lychee are in Guangdong (76,000 tons) and Guangxi
(25,000 tons) and major producing areas for longan are Fujian (37,000 tons)
and Guangxi (22x000 tons). Lychee and longan are in very high demand but
production is small due to the limited ecological, climatic zone where they can
be grown.
1.10     Peache  an  Fiums:  In 1988, peaches occupied 170,000 hectare-s,
concentrated in the eastern part of China, bv* -ith small hectarages in almost
every province except Heilongjiang.  Produc  :- was about 500,000 tons, of
which 7,000 were yellow peach.  Peaches are h. J.nly consumed fresh, with only
about 5,000 tons canned.  Planted area and production for plums are not known.
The tree can be found in every province in eastern China and the fruit is
marketed fresh and dried.
1.11     Loguat and Kiwi:  In 1988, loquat in China was grown in a relatively
small area - about 23,500 hectares - mainly in Zhejiang and Fujian provinces.
Total production was 31,000 tons in that year. It is mainly consumed fresh,
with only about 7,000 tons canned.   Kiwi, like citrus, lychee and longan
originated in China. It was brought to New Zealand and received the new name
of kiwi, changed from 'Chinese Gooseberry'. Trtal area planted is unknown,
since the majority of producing trees are found wild in Xinjiang, Ningxia and
Qinghai provinces. Production from wild kiwi was around 155,000 tons in 1988
and was marketed fresh. Kiwi orchards have only recently been developed in
Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Zhejiang, Sichuan, Anhui and other provinces and occupy
only 4,300 hectares in total. Production from these orchards was only 350 tons
in 19'', because most of the new hectarage is not yet bearing.



- 4 -
D. Sectoral Obiectiyes and Bank Lending
1.12      The Government' slong-term objectives for the agricultural sector are
to increase the production to meet the requirements created by po"ulation and
income growth, and to increase income and employment opportunities in rural
areas. Given China's shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development
planners have focused on the need to increase the productivity of presently
cropped areas and to efficielitly develop the few remaining areas Gf unutilized
lands. Steps are also being taken to stabilize grain outputs and to raise the
the value-added in the farm sector - by increasing the production and quality
of food crops, animal feed, livestock, fruit, fish and industrial crops - and
also in agro-processing, which is undergoing rapid expansion.
1.13      For fruit development, the Government's objectives are to increase
production for domestic consumption and exports, and provide an additional
source of income for tho rural population. All types of fruit produced under
the project would be primarily consumed in the domestic market, but certain
crops would have substantial export markets. Citrus is expected to be exported
fresh to the USSR, Hong Kong, South East Asia, Canada and Eastern European
countries. Longan and lychee are expected to be exported in processed forms to
South East Asia and Europe. The fruit development strategy emphasizes
establishment of new orchards with high yielding varieties, healthy and
disease-free seedlings on land unsuitable for grain cultivation. Citrus is now
being planted on predominantly low hills with sl-'pe normally in tne r_nge of
100to 450 and would be more profitable than grazing livestock.
1.14      The Bank's lending to China's agricultural sector is designed to
support the Government's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural
production through more efficient use of land, water, capital and labor
resources and through the improvement of support services such as credit,
research and agricultural education.  Bank group agricultural lending to date
has comprised 23 operations amounting to US$2.1 billion and has uivered the
full spectrum of geographic areas and subsectors, with overall focus on land
development, irrigation and drainage (5 projects), upgrading agricultural
support services including agricultural research, education, credit and seed
improvement (7 projects) and developing specialized subsector including rubber,
forestry, fruit and fisheries development (7 projects) and area development (4
projects). In recent years, the Bank group has supported a series of
provincial development projects in which an area development approach has been
applied, with responsibility for proposing and preparing the investment
proposals and repayment project funds resting with provincial and lower level
governments, thus supporting the increasing delegation of development palnning
and implementation. The rural sector adjustment loan (RSAL), which was
processed during 1988 contributed to the articulation and strengthening of the
reform process.
1.15      Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule.  Experience in ?revious Bank agricultural
projects in China is that physical works have been on time or ahead of
schedule. Disbursements for agricultural projects, in fact, usually outpace
those in other sectors. Notable features of all the projects are the high
standard of project management, the enthusiastic participation of farmers and
the effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels. The



projects which supported land development and agricultural intensification:
North China Plain Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) and Heilongjiang Land Reclamation
Project (Cr. 1347-CHA) and one Rural Credit Project (Cr. 1462 CHA) have been
completed. The project completion reports for the two land development
projects indicated the project implementation was successful, the economic
rates of return reached or exceeded the appraisal estimates, and the technology
used for land developemnt and drainage was sound and appropriate for wider
application. PCR preparation for the rural Credit I is under way.
E. Aericulture in Sichuan. Chongping and Hubgi
1.16      Sichuan.  Sichuan Province, located in Southwest China, is the most
populous province in China with over 103 million people, 88 million of whom are
in agriculture. Geographically, it is the fifth largest province with an area
of 570,000 km2 and is conventionally divided into three areas. The first, the
lrvge Chengdu Plain, which occupies 27% of the total production area of the
p.ivince, is a rich and fertile plain where grain and cash crop production is
supported by the Dujiangyan irrigation system first constructed 2,500 years
ago. The second area, the West Plateau, occupies 45% of the total area and is
important for cattle and fruit production. The third area, the southwest area,
occupying 28% of the total hectarage, comprises two subregions with different
climatio conditions, a river basin area (where the project areas are located)
suitable for growing grains, sugarcane and tobacco and a mountainous area with
a cool, overcast climate, which supports corn, potato and cattle production.
Sichuan is primarily a grain producer, the largest provincial producer in
China, with 10% of the country's total production in 1988. Grain output, 88%
of total crop output (by tonnage) in 1988, was 38 million tons, with rice 51%
and wheat 17% of the total. Sichuan also has a diversified list of other cash
crops, which in combibation account for the remaining 12% of output tonnage -
primarily sugar, rapeseed and fruit but also peanuts, cotton, jute, hemp, and
silkworm cocoon. Livestock production included 3.4 million tons of meat from
large animals (mostly pork) and 250,000 tons of milk. Output of aquatic
products was 172,000 tons. Gross agricultural output was Y48 billion in 1988.
1.17      Chongging is a municipality in Sichuan Province with independent
economic status. It has a total population of 14 million and a farm population
of 10.8 million and covers an area of 23,000 km. It is located on the hilly
peninsula of land wedged between the Jialing River to the north and the Yangtze
River to thte south. The rivers meet at the eastern end of Chongqing city,
which is at the heart of water and land transportation in Southwest China. The
municipality is the economic center for the upper regions of the Yangtza river
and is an important inland water port for foreign trade. It has a climate
suitable for production of grains, cash crops and fruit. Grains, mostly rice,
are the major crops, occupying 84% of the total production area and producing
87% of total field crop output tonnage. In 1988, grain output was 5.6 million
tons. Cash crop output, mostly sugarcane and edible oils was only 0.7 million
tons (13% of production) in that year and used just 6% of the production area.
Fruit output is small at about 150,000 tons per annum. Gross agricultural
output was Y550 million in 1988.
1.18      Hubei.  Hubel Province has a total population of 50 million and a
farm population of 39 million. Its 74 counties, covering an area of 186,000
km2, comprise two quite different areas. The eastern two-thirds is a low-lying



-6-
plain drained by the Yangtze and its northern tributary, the Han Shui. The
western third is an area of rugged highlands dividing Hubei from Sichuan, with
small cultivated valleys and basins. Because of varied topography, there are
many soil and climatic zones which are suitable for various crops. Hubei has
major irrigation facilities, with 63% of total arable land under irrigation.
This has enabled Hubei to produce grains, cash crops and fruit. Like Sichuan,
Hubei is primarily a grain producer (6% of the country's production) with 92%
of crop output tonnage composed of grain in 1988 (23 million tons). The
remaining 8% was mainly composed of rapeseed and other oil-bearing crops,
cotton and fruit, with some ramie, jute, hemp, tobacco and tea also produced.
Gross agricultural output in 1988 was Y30 billion.
Recent Agricultural Performance
1.19      In line with the experience of the country as a whole, Sichuan,
Chongqing and Hubei have experienced rapid agricultural development since the
introduction of the rural reforms. Grain output, still affected by price
controls and required deliveries, has increased moderately, 2.3% and 2.4%
annually in Sichuan and Hubei respectively during the 1979-88 period. Farm
output and farm incomes increased much more rapidly, however, due to farmer
diversification away from grain toward other cash crops and various types of
value-added activities. Non-grain gross agricultural output increased at the
rates of 7.2% and 7.8% annually in Sichuan and Hubei provinces respectively.
One of the principal diversification activities has been the planting of fruit
orchards, primarily citrus, because of high and increasing fruit prices. From
1978 to 1988 the area planted to citrus increased by 16% p.a. in Sichuan and
18% p.a. in Hubei (37,000 to 146,000 ha in Sichuan and 15,000 to 66,000 ha in
Hubei). The two provinces had a 19% share of the national total planted. That
the share of the two provinces declined to this level during the 10 year period
from a share of 28%, despite the two provinces' rapid growth, indicates the
rapidly developing national context for the subsector. Citrus growth has been
most rapid in the southern coastal region, namely in Guangdong Province.
1.20      One reason for the relatively slow growth in the Mid-Yangtze region
is that available land for fruits is hilly and requires significant investment
in land development. However, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has judged the
Mid-Yangtze valley to be ecologically superior to the southern Yangtze and
coastal regions because yellow shoot (greening), Tristeza and canker diseases
are present in thA a uthern and coastal provinces but not in the upper and
middle Yangtze northern region. These virus diseases result in lower yields,
smaller fruit size and shorter tree life and are part of MOA's reasoning in
selecting the upper and middle Yangtze Valley for priority fruit development.
At present, the more northerly areas produce mandarins and tangerines and the
southern areas are more important for sweet oranges, pomelos, lemons and limes.
1.21      Fruit production is sensitive to variable weather conditions.  Dry
season losses can be considerable in the fruit subsector, particularly when the
dry period coincides with flowering, fruit set or periods of rapid fruit
growth. The drought of 1988, for instance, decreased apple and banana
production by 4% and 9%, respectively, compared to 1987. Citrus production in
the main producing areas was even harder hit, with an average of 13% decrease
in 1988 due to high temperature in July and August. O£1 the eight main
producing areas, five (Sichuan, Hubei, Zhejiang, Hunan, Guangxi) suffered



- 7 -
significantly reduced production. Even in non-drought years dry season damage
to fruit trees reduces fruit quality and production, compared to orchards with
pond (or other) irrigation. Irrigated orchards also escaped the larger damage
(often 50-100% loss) due to abnormal drought conditions. To reduce this tisk
improved cultural practices and irrigation facilities would be provided under
the project for newly established and rehabilitated orchards (para 3.7).
p.   Project Rationale
1.22       As part of the Government's efforts toward decentralization, this
project would be planned and implemented by the provinces and the municipality
but with significant guidance from the MOA. The project would raise yields,
production and fruit quality by supplying improved varieties, financing
fertilizer imports, utilizing international experience in virus indexing and
plant certification, constructing irrigation facilities, and introducing modern
post-harvest technology and facilities for grading, fruit treatment and
packing. It would produce healthy seedlings and, in accordance with the
Government's policy to maximize the use of available natural resources, would
bring presently unused marginal hilly lands into production. Sound future
development would be achieved through the strengthening of research, extension
and training programs. Lessons learned from this project would be replicable
in other areas. The project would also generate employment and increase
farmers' incomes in some of the poorest, most densely populated counties in
Sichuan and Hubei Provinces. In addition, soil conservation measures
introduced by the project, e.g., terracing, contour planting, use of green
cover crops and efficient utilization of available water resources, would
contribute to improved environmental conditions. The project would consolidate
present fruit development efforts, following tne rapid expansion of orchards in
the last decade, and establish technical standards. Bank Group involvement
would give access to international fruit industry experience.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location of Project Areas
2.1       The proposed project areas are in the southern regions of Sichuan and
Hubei Provinces along the northern bank of the Yangtze River where subtropical
and temperate fruits are grown. Most of the project activities would extend
from Yibin County in Sichuan to Yido County in Hubei along the Yangtze River
and its tributaries. Project locations and area statistics are given in IBRD
Map No. 21726 and Annex 1, respectively.
B. Climate. Topography. Soils-and Water Resources
2.2       Climate.  The Mid-Yangtze area has a temperate monsoon climate with
cool winters and hot wet summers.  In the project areui of Sichuan Province,
the temperatures range from average daily low of 40C in January to average
daily maximum of 300C in August with an annual daily average of 170C to 190C.
The annual accumulated sunshine hours are about 1,127 to 1,617 and the frost-
free period is 306 to 358 days. Annual precipitation averages 982 to 1,188 mm
and average relative humidity is 65% to 84%. In Chongqing Municipality,



- 8 -
climatic conditions are similar to the other project areas of Sichuan Province.
Similar climatic conditions with slightly lower winter temperatures prevail in
the project areas of Hubei Province. The average daily temperature ranges from
-60C to 290C, with an annual daily average of 160C to 180C. Annual accumulated
sunshine hours are more in Hubei and range between 1,550 and 1,968. However,
the number of frost-free days is less than in Sichuan and ranges between 259
and 327. Annual precipitation and percent relative humidity are 1,100 to 1,460
mm and 70% to 81%, respectively, i.e., higher in Hubei than Sichuan. Annual
precipitation in the project areas of both provinces has an uneven distribution
and annual rainfall fluctuates considerably.   Dry spells and hot winds for
about two weeks in April-May and July-September are not uncommon. This can
significantly affect fruit setting and fruit growth during these critical
periods of fruit development, reducing yields and fruit quality. These
problems are compounded by high evapotranspiration (particularly during the
summer), which annually ranges between 700 and 1,110 mm. Irrigation is, thus,
essential to ensuring good tree growth, increasing fruit set, obtaining
consistent yields, high quality and minimizing fluctuations in fruit supply.
2.3       Toupograghy and Soils.  The project area is concentrated around the
northern middle reaches of the Yangtze River and its tributaries. These areas
are composed of hilly lands and valleys with elevations between 150 and 600 m.
Slopes range from 100 to 600 with steeper slopes in the mountainous areas.
Grains and other field crops are planted in the valleys, while fruit crops are
mainly grown on the hilly slopes of less than 300. Soil properties in areas
developed for fruit cultivation vary considerably, as does the amount of soil
improvement necessary to establish good orchards. Trenching provides a soil
depth of one meter. Terracing, use of fertilizers and manure in large
quantities, along with providing compost at depth in the trenches and using of
green manure, modifies and improves soil properties. Excavated rock has fast
weathering properties and progressively breaks down to increase and extend the
area of soil depth. Soils are variable depending on the parent rock and the
weathering process and in Sichuan and Chongqing are derived mainly from purple
shale and mudstone. Soil pH ranges between 5.5 and 8.5 with an average of 6.0
to 7.5. Organic matter content ranges between 0.8% and 3% and is usually on
the low side in hilly areas. 'n Hubei, purple soils occur but there is a
greater proportion of red and yellow soils developed from shales and mudstones
and exhibiting a clayey nature. Soil pH averages about 6.5 and organic content
is around 1% to 1.5%. Soil depth is highly variable and in hilly areas varies
from 10 to 40 cm. Overall, nutrient content is variable, and incorporation of
a green cover crop and use of chemical fertilizers to supply nitrogen and
phosphate is necessary. Potassium levels in the soil are relatively adequate,
but reinforcement may be needed in some areas. Supply of micronutrients, e.g.,
zinc and iron, may be needed for fruit crops in areas where deficiency symptoms
are recognized.
2.4       Water Resources and Ouality.  To supplement rainfall, surface water
from the Yangtze River and its tributar'.es is pumped to ponds at different
elevations to irrigate crops by gravity. In some areas, groundwater is pumped
to irrigation ponds which also act as catchment areas for rain water. Water
quality is good in the project area and is generally suitable for irrigation
with total soluble salts of less than 1,000 ppm. Citrus is particularly
sensitive to high boron levels. A low boron level is one of the important
criteria in evaluation of water suitability for citrus development.



-9-
C. Land Use. Farm Size and Population
2.5      About 5.1 million farm families live in the project area (29 counties)
with over 90% rural. Out of a total land area of 7 million ha, about 1.4
million ha (20%) is cultivated with field and tree crops. Following the
introduction of the production responsibility system, decisions on land use
have been entrusted to townships and households. The average household
operates about 0.7 ha. Cereals and other field crops are planted in the
valleys and on some of the slopes with less than 100 to 200 inclination.
Perennial tree crops (fruits and forestry) are planted at higher elevations and
on terraced slopes of 300. Grasses and pine trees are sometimes planted on
steeper slopes, but such practices are discouraged where soil conservation
measures cannot be implemented. MOA estimates that about 400,000 ha of hilly
and marginal land with slopes less than 300 and adequate water resources,
reasonable access to existing rail, road and river transportation and abundant
labor, could be developed to produce high qtality fruits, particularly citrus,
pears, yellow peaches, plums, loquats, lychees and longans.
D. Present Development
2.6       China is believed to be the center of origin of many fruit crops
particularly citrus. Historical records indicate that citrus has been
cultivated there over the last 4,000 years and was introduced to other areas in
the world through commerce. Today, the main citrus areas are along the Yangtze
River Valley and its tributaries and in the southern provinces. Some citrus is
grown in the southern areas of Shaanxi Province. Deciduous fruits, e.g.,
plums, pears, and peaches, and subtropical fruits like lychees and longans, are
also grown in the project area. Deciduous fruits require cool temperatures
which are found at high elevations in the ea.;tern areas. Some subtropical
fruits (e.g., lychees and longans) are grown in the southern areas of Sichuan.
Planting Material and Varietal DeveloRment
2.7       Planting Material.  Current production of high quality fruit
seedlings is variable because horticultural standards are not being uniformly
implemented or adhered to. With the increased demand for seedlings, emphasis
has been on quantity rather than quality. Consequently, some newly established
orchards have had high incidence of seedling loss.
2.8       The production of quality seedlings for citrus and deciduous fruit
orchards is limited by the availability of healthy budwood and disease-
resistant rootstocks. Presently, available budwood and rootstock contribute to
the limited yield potential of new and replanted orchards. Grafted seedlings
are mainly produced by the public sector at research stations and agricultural
schools and lately, following the rural reforms in 1978, by farmers and small
private nurseries. Screening of budwood mother trees has been undertaken by
research stations, particularly in the last two years, with increased emphasis
on the development of disease-free seedlings. These efforts, however, have not
kept up with the surge in demand for seedlings to establish new orchards that
followed the lifting of price controls on fruits and vegetables. The quality
of seedlings produced to satisfy increased demand has been variable and has led
in many cases to replanting all or parts of some newly established orchards.



- 10 -
Because of limited equipment, resources and lack of trained qualified staff,
virus indexing and certification programs have not kept up with seedling
demand. Consequently, farmers have produced their own substandard seedlings,
which has led to the spread of fruit diseases, particularly in areas south of
the Yangtze River (e.g., bacterial canker and yellow shoot). The project area
is reported to be relatively free of both diseases, but adequate measures based
on modern techniques in virus indexing, certification programs and plant
quarantine need to be implemented to ensure continued freedom from these and
other diseases (e.g., Exocortis and Tatter Leaf), which could spread due to
inadequate control measures. MOA has agreed to tighten enforcement of the
quarantine laws to prevent introduction of diseased plant material and would
establish effective virus indexing programs capable of delivering needed
quantities of healthy seedlings. Repeated testing of budwood mother trees on a
regular schedule is essential because they can become infected through careless
use of contaminated pruning tools and grafting knives. In addition, continued
training of nursery technicians in proper sanitary procedures for disease
prevention is essential. The proposed project would give high priority to
establish virus indexing and seedling eertification programs in all stages of
production of propagating materials and would provide needed resources,
including equipment and training of research and extension staff and farmers.
2.9       Fruit nurseries in the project area show wide variability in quality
of seedlings. Seeds for rootstock selection are usually from "wild" or "fence-
row' seedlings, leading to great variability in horticultural characteristics.
This is evident in seed beds, where seedlings are frequently variable in size
and leaf characteristics. Rootstocks, often of unsatisfactory size and type,
are budded and eventually result in uneven tree growth of new orchards.
Seedlings' size is usually below optimum, budding height is low about 2.5 to 6
cm, rather than the normally recommended pencil- size with budding height of 10
to 15 cm. To avoid these problems, strict adherence to horticultural criteria,
quarantine regulations, and virus indexing would be implemented in the project
by strengthening current seedling production regulations and tr, ining MOA
staff. Funds for establishment of modern citrus nurseries woulA be provided
under the project.
2.10      Varietal Development.  Efforts to improve fruit varieties in the
project area were nearly halted in 1958 with the increased emphasis on grain
production. This was coupled with pronounced neglect of horticultural
research. Fruit crops were accorded low priority until ru=al reforms were
introduced in 1978 and free markets were established after 1983.  Research
programs to develop new varieties were initiated in the last decade at regional
universities and national and provincial research institutes, but due to the
long gestation of perennial horticultural crops, no significant results have
yet been obtained. These research programs aim to extend the harvesting
period, by developing improved early and late varieties that would allow fruit
to be harvested for six rather than three months. The research would also
develop improved cultural practices which would increase yields through the use
of adequate irrigation, fertilizers and agrochemicals. Strengthening of such
fruit research programs through training and technical assistance is an
important objective of the proposed project.
2.11      Most of the fruit varieties currently in production are old ones
developed in China in the '30s or imported during that period and multiplied
thereafter. In Hubei, red tangerines occupy about 70% of the citrus area,



- 11 -
while sweet oranges and Satsuma mandarins are predominant in Sichuan (over
60%). Realizing the limited availability of high quality varieties, the Citrus
Research Institute (CRI - para. 2.24) and Central Agricultural University at
Wuhan recently imported several improved citrus varieties from Spain and the
U.S. for multiplication through shoot-tip grafting. Other subtropical fruits
in the project area, including lychees and longans, are usually propagated by
aerial rooting (marcotage). Increased production of virus-free seedlings of
improved citrus varieties is taking place at research stations in the project
area, and nurseries established under the project would concentrate on
production of seedlings of these varieties. Production of grafted lychee
seedlings of improved varieties would also be encouraged under the project.
Because of climatic advantages in Sichuan, Valencia oranges would be planted in
suitable areas and improved varieties of lychees and longans would replace low-
yielding ones. In addition to desirable horticultural traits, economic
parameters such as marketable yield per unit area and length and timing of
harvesting period, would be used to evaluate varieties for maximum land use.
To augment farmers' income, intercropping with legumes and vegetable crops is
practiced during the early years of orchard development and the practice would
be encouraged under the project to improve soil fertility.
Cultural Practices.
2.12      Orchard Establishment.  In Sichuan and Hubei, about 0.4 million ha of
marginal hilly areas are available and are being developed as part of the
citrus expansion program. Slopes vary from 100 to 450, and although stony and
uncultivated, with proper land development can support establishment of
productive and healthy fruit trees under good conditions. Land is normally
terraced before planting which results in heavy labor requirements according to
steepness of slope. Blasting of rock has at times been necessary. The
hillsides have good water and air draining capacity, which reduce the risk of
root diseases and frost damage. Since sunlight hours are limited (1,200 to
1,600 hours annually), south facing slopes less than 300 are generally
preferred for orchards. While hilly lands have proven to be suitable for
citrus, lychees and longans perform better and produce higher yields in soils
with deep profiles.  Such soils are available in Luzhou (Sichuan) where lychees
and longans would be planted under the project.
2.13      Fertilizers.  In the project area, harvested green cover crops (green
manure) are interspersed with soil in the tree holes about six months before
the transplanting of seedlings. Organic manure is supplemented by chemical
fertilizers (mostly ammonium bicarbonate and calcium phosphate) applied at
recommended rates that depend on tree age and soil conditions. Present
recommended fertilizer rates are based on experience, as use of soil analysis
is not widely practiced, and leaf analysis is mainly done for research
purposes. Low or excessive amounts of N in the plant tissues can seriously
affect fruit quality, shorten storage life of fruit and increase susceptibility
to molds and handling damage. Monitoring of N levels in leaves should be
systematic in order to adjust fertilizer levels to plant needs. Monitoring of
other nutrients (P, K and micronutrients) is desirable anid leaf samples should
be analyzed periodically at specific stages of plant growth and fruit
development. The project would provide equipment for soil and leaf analysis
and training in fruit nutrition and orchard management.



- 12 -
2.14     Farmers are unable to maintain recommended application rates in the
project area because fertilizer supply is currently inadequate. Marketing
supply companies at the county level are not able to obtain sufficient supplies
from government sources. The project would make direct provision for
fertilizer supply througlh fruit development corporations and would finance its
importation.
2.15      Control of Pest and Disease.  Foot rot caused by Phvtophtora sp.  is
the most widespread disease and causes significant loss in citrus trees because
of low scion - rootstock grafting unions (less than 10 to 15 cm above soil
level). Other diseases of minor significance include sooty, green and blue
molds on fruit after harvest. Also, scale insect and cicadas spoil external
appearance of some fruits. Mites and leaf miners pose moderate problems,
particularly in fruit nurseries and are usually controlled by spraying. Some
biological cor.trol methods are being developed and the proposed project would
strengthen the development of integrated pest management (IPM) practices.
2.16     Irrigation.  Fluctuation of fruit yields in the project area occurs
frequently and is mainly caused by lack of irrigation to supplement rainfall,
particularly during April (flowering and fruit setting) and from August to
November (increase in fruit size and maturity). Dry summers with high
evapotranspiration rates (700 to 1,100 mm per year) contribute to yield
decrease and affect fruit quality. Some farmers use straw mulch after heavy
rainfalls to conserve soil moisture, but if dry periods become long (about 2 to
3 weeks), yield recovery is low because of the soil's low water holding
capacity, particularly in hilly terraced areas. Yield losses of up to 100% due
to drought have been reported frequently. Uze of sprinkler irrigation is also
recommended in the frost-prone areas of eastern Hubei Province. Effective
measures to retain soil moisture in combination with supplemental irrigation
would be adopted under the proposed project.
2.17      Pruning.  Summer pruning consists of removing dead wood, autumn flush
shoots and weak branches, and thinning out dense parts of the tree. Because of
the general practice of close spacing of fruit trees, particularly citrus,
farmers usually prune heavily to the detriment of fruit production. Training of
farm technicians on how to form trees with good productive canopy is presently
inadequate.
2.18      Harvesting and Post-Harvest Treatment.  Most fruit is clipped from
the trees into bamboo baskets. Despite improvements in handling since the
introduction of the responsibility system, standards of picking and handling
are still not satisfactory. Picking into field boxes or bags is generally not
practiced. The use of bamboo baskets damages the fruit and the basket hooks
damage the trees. The use of deficient harvesting practices is encouraged by
present practices of paying for fruit by weight, regardless of quality,
maturity and appearance. Fruits are only occasionally graded by size and
outside appearance, and only a very small percentage receive immediate post-
harvest fungicide treatment. The project would introduce modern post-harvest
methods through training and provision of packing lines, fruit treatment,
grading and suitable storage facilities.



- 13 -
E. Infrastructure
2.19      Existing access roads to orchards are generally good gravel roads and
can be coutsidered to be of normal "all weather" standard. Grades are steep in
places and bends of small radius. Existing orchards appear to be randomly
sited and are often located on roads which have been already built to service
outlying mature orchards. Access roads generally feed down to hard-top or good
gravel roads which parallel the Yangtze River or one of its tributaries. Long
distance travel on main hard-top roads is hampered by poor surface quality and
congestion and is further constrained by fuel rationing, which limits the
quantity of fuel and the areas in which a carrier may operate.
2.20     As for other means of transportation, the project areas are not
different from other heavy populated areas in China, which suffer from
congestion, particularly around urban centers. Railways are the dominant means
of interprovincial citrus transportation. In 1987, about 75% of the citrus
shipped from Sichuan Province was by rail, 17% by road and 8% by boat. The
rail system is considered to be operating at or near capacity. Specialized
temperature controlled boxcars for transportine citrus to USSR (Siberia) during
winter months are in short supply. Inland boat traffic may be public or
private and the smaller boats tend to be privately-owned. Use of river
transport is generally limited due to its slowness and lack of .onnections to
northern areas except for the route through Shanghai and therealter by sea to
coastal areas. Use of air transport for fruit is usually limited to small
quantities of perishable fruits, e.g., lychees and longans. Therefore, land
transport by rail and road constitutes the most important means of provincial
and interprovincial fruit tranisport.  Sichuan Province has recently embarked on
a road improvement program with Bank assistance (Chengdu-Chongqing Highway
Project, Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA). The province has recently established
a special fruit transportation unit in the Provincial Bureau of Transportation
to facilitate coordination and management of fruit shipping, particularly
citrus. The project would provide funds to build new access roads and upgrade
some of the existing ones to new and rehabilitated orchards.
F. Marketing
2.21      The current market stat-us of Sichuan and Hub,ei citrus and other fruit
output (and that of most other producing regions in China) is deficient. In the
first place, the product reaching domestic and export market destinations is of
low average production quality and is further damaged by inadequate handling,
packing and storage. Post-harvest treatment (fungicide treatment, waxing,
protective packing, etc.) is rarely carried out, and grading is unsystematic
and ineffective and is limited to size grading regardless of quality and
miaturity.  Farmgate price differentials for quality are non-existent and, at
the wholesale 'svel, are minimal. Consequently, price signals are not
effective in inducing either farmers or distributors to produce quality
products. In the main, citrus is handled as a bulk commodity, and rough
handling is the norm. Truckloads of citrus products are usually packed in
bamboo baskets or jute bags (and occasionally in cardboard boxes for export)
but often they are transported without even these protections.
2.22     A second marketing deficiency is that demand and supply are seriously
mismatched in both variety and timing. The highest value orange varieties in
world markets - navel and Valencia - are produced in limited quantities in



- 14 -
China. Thus, Chinese supply neither satisfies potential domestic consumer
demand for these superior varieties nor is able to enter Hongkong and other
international markets for them. As to timing, at present the harvest season
for all but an insignificant percentage of supply is concentrated in the two-
month mid-November-to-mid-January period. Shortages and high prices for mature
fruit are followed by over supply and low prices, followed again by shortage
and high prices. This seasonal mismatch between supply and demand could be
significantly alleviated by the establishment of both early and late maturing
varieties and by the temperature and humidity controlled storage of treated,
undamaged output for later release into the market. Improved timing of supply
would be particu.arly important for the domestic market, since consumption
peaks associated with National Day at the beginning of Octaber and Chinese New
Year around the beginning of February are currently outside the production
season.
2.23     Farmers' current strategies to take advantage of high prices outside
the main harvest season are, in October and early November, to harvest and
market immature fruits and, for January and February. to store output in house
cellars and earthen caves for later sale. But these strategies are inedequate,
since the immature fruit cannot command significantly higher prices, and
traditional storage technology results in a high percentage of loss. The loss
in farmers' storage results partly because effective post- harvest treatment is
not carried out and partly because temperature and humidity are not controlled.
In recent years, construction of naturally ventilated storage facilities has
been promoted by the CRI and village cooperatives, but little has been actually
constructed in the project area due to shortage of funds.
G. Horticultural Su2port Services
2.24      Research.  Present horticultural research capability is sufficient to
handle project related activities in the project areas. Each province has its
own academy of agricultural sciences, and horticultural research institutes
play an active role in providing fruit growers with production and marketing
recommendations. Moreover, CRI of CAMS (located in Beibei near Chongqing) and
its staff would be actively involved in the project, particularly in virus
indexing and budwood registration programs. In addition to CRI, other
principal research institutes supporting project activities are: (i) the
Hortitcu-ltural Research Institute of the Sichuan Provincial Academy of
Agricultural Sciences; (ii) the Citrus Research Institute of Central
Agricultural University; (iii) the Virus Research Institute of CAAS; (iv) the
Horticultural and Plant Protection Departments of Southwest Agricultural
University (Sichuan); and (v) Luzhou Horticultural Research Institute
(Sichuan). At the prefecture and county levels, there are several agricultural
research stations with significant horticultural activities that wouid
participate in applied research programs, and training of extension staff and
farmers.  Sichran Province initiated a five-year virus indexing and seedling
production program in 1986 with total funding of Y2.64 million. About 14
national and provincial research and governmental organizations are
collaborating in the program.
2.25      Extension.  The Provincial Bureaus of Agriculture and Animal
Husbandry and their agencies at the prefecture and county levels are
responsible for horticultural extension activities. The Economic Crops



- 15 -
Division of each Bureau is responsible for perishables, including horticultural
crops. The extension organization is at a crossroads between the commune
system of the '70s and the present production responsibility system (PRS).
Linkages between research, awtension and farmers are evolving and assuming new
dimensions. As a result of the PRS, extension staff are presently playing an
advisory role and it is up to the farmer to accept or reject extension
recommendations. Recently, the Government established Agricultural Technical
Extension Centers (ATECs) in several provinces. All the counties in the
project areas have county ATECs. The project would strengthen horticultural
extension activities through increased staffing, equipment and constructing
additional buildings. Both farmers and extension staff need retraining to
establish new means of communication, identify and resolve new problems.
2.26      As for present organization of extension activities in the project
area, the Provincial Bureaus of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and the
Economic Crops Division are responsible for defining fruit production programs.
Detailed Zormulation and implementation of these programs, including extension
activities, are carried out by the county bureaus and their staff. Extension
activities at the village and township level are undertaken by technicians who
are usually skilled fruit farmers, who may be paid for some of their
administrativc activities. Continued training by county specialists keeps the
technicians up to date with government policies regarding new planting,
provision of inputs, production practices and marketing aspects. Lack of
adequate extension equipment, e.g., visual aids, vehicles and farm inputs
(quality seedlings, agrochemicals and spraying equipment) is hampering
extension programs, particularly the establishment of demonstration orchards in
farmers' fields.
2.27      Training.  Some of the institutes' fruit research scientists have had
adequate exposure and training in their specialized fields, but developments in
virus indexing, plant nutrition, and post-harvest technology are progressing
rapidly and their skills and knowledge need continued updating through
subscriptions to international publications, attending symposia, and visits to
horticultural research centers in other countries. Some of the institutes have
adequate space for training and boarding, but lack training equipment. Most of
the training at the institutes is for county, prefecture and provincial staff,
while farmers are usually trained at county facilities. A few selected farmers
are enrolled in some courses at the provincial level. Instructors from the CRI
and Central Agricultural University have developed training programs on video
that have been used in technicians' training with good results.



-16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Relation to the Sector
3.1      The main objectives of the project would be to:
(i) Increase fruit production in low income areas of Sichuan and Hubei
Provinces and in Chongqing Municipality by establishing new orchards
on presently uncultivated hilly slopes and rehabilitating existing
ones;
(ii)  Strengthen research and extension service3 to implement sound virus
indexing and budwood registration programs;
(iii) Improve fruit quality and increase value at the orchard level by
providing farmers with healthy, disease-free seedlings of marketable
varieties, helping them to improve their cultural and post-harvest
practices, and providing them with clear price incentives for graded,
quality fruit production;
(iv) Streamline fruit marketing by establishing Provincial and County
Fruit Development Corporations to market quality fruit in local,
distant and export markets by introducing modern post-harvest
techniques, providing investment in packing lines aud storage
facilities, and strengthening their commercial abilities;
(v) Alleviate poverty by increasing the incomes of currently
underemployed farmers and landless laborers; and
(vi) Provide a replicable model for other fruit production areas.
These project objectives are in line with the GOC and provincial strategy of
making efficient use of human, land and water resources and diversifying
incomes of rural people through production of high-value crops.
B. Project Descrigtion
3.2         For the production component, the project would finance investment
in developing model fruit nurseries (77.5 ha), budwood mother-tree orchards
(120 ha), new orchards (11,986 ha), and rehabilitated orchards (2,473 ha).
About 80% of the proposed investment would be provided for citrus development,
with the remainder for lychee, longan, pears, loquat, plums, yellow peaches and
kiwi. For the post-harvest and marketing component, the project would
establish new and strengthen existing Fruit Development Corporations (FDCs) at
the provincial (PFDC) and county (CFDC) levels. The CFDCs, under project
financing, would invest in and manage modern treatment, packing, and storage
facilities. They would purchase fruit from farmers according to their own
pricing schedules, which would implement MOA/PMO grading standards and provide
adequate incentives for production of quality fruit by farmers. The CFDCs
would sell the fruit purchased from farmers in local, distant and export
markets, but farmers would be free to use other distribution channels. The



- 17 -
PFDCs would provide marketing services, such as market information and
interprovincial and export trading services to the CFDCs on a commission basis,
but the CFDCs would also be free to use other channels, such as Foreign Trade
Corporations and direct export sales. Regarding the institutional support
component, the project would strengthen the Provincial Agriculture Bureaus'
capability to identify, propagate and distribute virus-free planting materials.
It would also provide technical assistance to institutionalize virus-free
indexing and budwood registration programs, post-harvest handling and orchard
management and would train research and extension staff in all dspects of fruit
development.
C.  Detailed Features
Production
3.3      Fruit  Nurseries.  Four principal research institutes with capability
and experience in virus indexing and budwood production would participate in
applied research, seedling production and training programs (para. 2.24). In
addition to provision of research equipment needed for virus indexing, three
institutes would be provided with controlled temperature greenhouses (200 to
300 C). In addition, several insect-proof screened greenhouses would be
constructed and old ones remodellel. Virus indexed budwood produced through
shoot-tip grafting under supervision of the research institutes would be used
to plant budwood mother-tree orchards which are the main suppliers of healthy
budwood to the nurseries. The project would provide funds to construct four ha
of greenhouses (120 poly-houses) in Sichuan for seedling production under
controlled conditions. In addition, about 35 ha and 38.5 ha of open field
nurseries would be established in Chongqing and Hubei, respectively.
Greenhouses would be irrigated by hand-held hoses or in some cases by suspended
sprinklers. Nurseries would be irrigated by overhead sprinklers.  Present
nurseries would be identified as to the source of their budwood with the object
of consolidating nurseries and using only budwood from budwood mother trees,
which would be regularly supervised and tested for freedom from disease by
cooperating research institutes. Only seedlings from present nurseries that
could be verified to be healthy would be used for establishing new orchards
under the project. The object is to gradually phase out nurseries with
unproven sources of budwood. Rootstocks used in seedling production would also
be virus-indexed and screened for trueness to type and horticultural qualities.
Production of healthy seedlings would not be limited to citrus but would also
be promoted for other fruits included in the project.
3.4      Establishment of Orchards.  The project would establish 11,986 ha of
new orchards. These orchards would be developed and managed according to the
technical and management requirements of the project. Farmers would be
required to (a) follow project land development and improvement methods; (b)
invest in and apply irrigation; (c) use healthy virus-free seedlings; (d) use
approved cultural practices and inputs; and (e) adopt approved harvesting and
post-harvest practices. The locations of orchards would have to meet the
physical and social criteria developed by the provincial and county Bureaus of
Agriculture.  Among the physical criteria are:  (i) suitable soils; (ii)
planting on south side slopes of less than 300; (iii) proximity to sufficient
good irrigation water; and (iv) availability of infrastructure, particularly
power and roads. As for social criteria, orchards would be sited as much as



- 18 -
possible in low income counties and villages, ones with per capita income about
Y200-250/annum, a level that is far below the provincial averages. Table 3.1
shows the distribution of kinds of fruit to be developed under the project.
Tabl( 3.1 Phasi.j of NUrseries. Orchard Establishment
and Rehabilitation (ha)
Sinhuan    Chongqir.g   Hube;      Total
Nurseries & Budwood
Mother-Tree Orcha,                   28 a/        61       108.5       197.5
Orchard Establishment               5800        2320      3866       11986
Citrus                          4624       2060       2699
Lychees                          900          *         -
Longans                           94          -         -
Plums                             66          -         67
Loquats                          116                   200
Yellow Peach                       -         260       567
Pear                                          -        200
Kiwi                                          -        133
Orchard Rehabilitation340                                 1633        2473
citrus                           500        240       1633
Yellow Peach                      -         100        -
a/ Including 4 ha of greenhouses (120 poly-houses)
3.5      Locations selected for citrus orchard development are mainly in
marginal hilly lands which would need contoured terracing. Provision would be
made for purchasing blasting material to be used in difficult areas, for
developing contou- terracing, for improving soil fertility by using green
manure and agrochumicals for establishing irrigation systems, and for
constructinp and rehabilitating roads. About 787 km of new access roads to
orchards would be constructed under the project and about 145 km would be
upgraded. These are gravel roads provided with culverts, ditches and road
reserve.
3.6      Orchard Rehabilitation.  Average yields of existing mature orchards
(15 to 20 years old) sre relatively low compared to their yield potential
(about 15 t/ha for citrus compared to 27 t/ha of potential yield). Fruit
quality is less than optimum under present conditions. This can be attributed
to: (i) lack of fertilizers and pesticides; (ii) unreliable water supply with
rainfall the predominant water source; (iii) old cultural practices, i.e.,
close spacing, presence of pests and diseases, severe pruning, inadequate
control of fruit setting, and (iv) poor fruit handling. To rectify these
shortcomings, the project would invest in irrigation facilities, provide needed
inputs, implement modern cultural practices and extend proven technical
recommendations to 2,473 ha of existing fruit orchards. These orchards would
serve as models for the rehabilitation of other existing orchards. Selected
orchards would be 7 to 10 years old and free of virus diseases, particularly
Exocortis. In the few cases where replacement of the variety is recommended,
top grafting with healthy scions of suitable varieties would be practiced.



- 19 -
3.7      Irrigation ant Water Resources.  Irrigation is essential if consistent
high yields and better quality fruits are to be obtained. The large annual
variability and persistent shortage of rainfall during the fruit set and fruit
development period, combined with the low water retention characteristic of the
soils in hilly areas, cause plant stress unless supplemental irrigation is
provided. The proposed irrigation works essentially consist of small pumps
(about 150 mm diameter) abstracting water from existing pipes to sprinkler or
hand-held hoses. Mainly electric power would be used but diesel engines will
also be required in orchards not sited close to exist'-g power lines and where
electric supplies are uncertain (Chongqing) or where t,se and fall of river
level would make electric pump installation expensive. There is considerable
experience of this type of irrigation in the project area, served by competent
and experienced Water Conservation Departments (WCD). These departments would
be employed by CFDCs and PMOs to design and supervise construction of tL
works. Construction contracts would be let by the CFDCs to Irrigation
Construction Corps (semi- autonomous contract branches of WCDs).
3.8      Availability of irrigation water is assured for these small schemes
because rivers are large and perennial, and lakes and reservoirs (large, medium
and small) have all been assessed in the National General Survey of Reservoirs
1986, ini which volume and existing demand were quantified and net available
surplus estaelished. Only water sources with sufficient surplus to meet
requirements would be used.
Post Harvest and Marketing
3.9      Marketinz.  The project's marketing strategy is, on the one hand, to
structure the production side so as to best satisfy existing and potential
domestic and export demand for quality, variety and timing and, on the other,
to stimulate the development of skilled and entrepreneurial marketing
enterprises that can dynamically learn about and move to satisfy changing
market demands.
3.10      Ouality.  Quality in fruit production depends on an interrelated
chain of modern production, post-harvest treatment, and handling technologies.
When correctly implemented, mature, blemish-free, firm, sweet, fruit would
result from the effective orchard development and production techniques
supported by the project. Among the most important handling requirements for
model orchards would be harvesting into bags or lined bamboo baskets, farm
level grading, and careful farm-to-packing-line handling and transport. Price
differentials for quality, which would be set by the CFDCs, would provide
effective incentives to project farmers to perform the handling requirements.
Packing lines provided by the project would be operated by the CFDCs and would
add further quality improvement to harvested fruits through fungicide treatment
to promote longer shelf life and product uniformity and waxing to enhance
product attractiveness, and packing to protect the fruit in transit. The FDCs
in cooperation with PMU would also work hard to arrange timely and expeditious
transportation to distant domestic and foreign markets.
3.11      The project would provide funds to establish about, 23 packing lines
distributed as follows: (i) in Sichuan, 1'5 of 3 t/hr capacity and 2 of 5 t/hr;
(ii) in Hubei, 4 lines of 3 t/hr; and (iii) in Chongqing one 3 t/hr and one 5
t/hr. Total capacity of these packing lines is about 75,000 tons assuming



- 20 -
operation period of 50 days and 20 hr/day. Some additional tonnage could also
be handled during the summer harvest season (e.g., Valencia). Packing lines
would handle existing production and would use local labor. They would be
owned and managed by the CFDCs. Operating funds for the first year would be
provided by the project. Cardboard boxes are available in the project area and
would be used in conjunction with the packing lines operations.
3.12     Startup operations of the packing lines would take place several years
prior to receiving output from new orchards (as early as project year 2 in many
cases). Price differentials for quality set by the CFDCs would elicit higher-
than-average quality from farmers, though this quality is unlikely to reach the
levels expected later from the newly established orchards. During the interim
period, the CFDCs would gain experience and would also add significant value to
farmers' output. Grading standards would also become familiar to provincial
fruit markets.
3.13    Variety.  The project would result in a major increase in the
production of improved eatly and late matttring varieties, e.g., of navel and
Valencia oranges.  Project citrus orchards would produce 52% of their projected
mature output in these two high-value varieties, 115,000 tons per annu= in
total. Not only would these oranges be marketable in Hong Kong and in other
export markets, but in the case of the Valencia variety, the late spring
(April/May) harvest period would allow project farmers to satisfy unmet
domestic consumer demands during this period and thereby earn high prices from
both varietal quality and timing. Seedlings of improved varieties of other
fruit crops would be multiplied and distributed under the project in
conjunction with application of modern cultural practices and needed inputs.
3.14     Storage.  Storage facilities to be owned and operated by the UFDCs
would also be provided under the project. Because of the climatic conditions
in the project area, ventilated storage rooms would be adequate for winter and
spring storage as indicated by results obtained at CRI. These rooms are
designed to keep room temperatures around 70 to 110C by opening the vents at
night when temperatures are low and closing them during the day. Relative
humidity is controlled by keeping graded fruits in plastic bags. The project
would provide funds to construct about 19,100 m2 of fan ventilated storage area
with a total storage capacity of 6,685 tons. CRI has conducted fruit storage
experiments, which have led to improved design of ventilated storage facilities
and extension of storage periods up to March and early April depending on
outside temperature. These improvements include the addition of fans, ground
tunnels under the stacked fruits and some insulation. Because of cool
temperatures in winter and early spring in the project area, there is no need
for cold storage during that period.  The need for cold storage facilities for
fruits grown under the project is not immediate but in the future it may be
justified for Valencia oranges, lychees and longans.
3.15     TransRortation.  The project would provide 363 transport units
composed of 25 four-wheel drive cross country vehicles, 93 4-7t trucks, 238
1.0-1.75t trucks, 7 mini-buses and one medium town bus to facilitate
communication and fruit movement from producers to consumption centers. In
addition, 3 boats for transportation of fruits along the Yangtze River and its
tributaries, and 72 mono-rail installations for in-field transport to orchard



- 21 -
storage and loading areas (in Sichuan), would be provided. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that government would provide adequate funds (US$0.2
million) to procure passenger vehicles needed under the project.
3.16     Management and Integration of Marketing and Productio.  One of the
important features of the project would be the strengthening of key commercial
fruit marketing enterprises e.g. the CFDCs - some of which already exist and
others of which would be established in the course of project implementation.
Their primary function would be to improve the marketing of fruit in three
major ways: (1) buy farmers' produce under differential pricing for quality
grades and varieties, (2) provide quality-enhancing packing, storage and
transportation services, and (3) carry out initial orchard development under
the supervision of the PMO to ensure agronomic and varietal quality parameters.
The projecet would provide the CFDCs with investment funds for packing and
storage (paras. 3.11 and 3.14) and transportation (para. 3.15).  The CFDCs
would buy fruit from farmers according to the national grading standards that
would be established and used in this project.
3.17     In order to avoid the problems that might come with establishing
county marketing monopolies and to encourage competition in fruit marketing,
farmers would retain the right to sell to whomever they wished including their
own county's CFDC. Alternative marketing channels would be farmers themselves,
CFDCs from other counties, private merchants and retailers in farmers' markets.
The CFDCs, for their part, would not be required to purchase all of farmers'
output in their counties. Under competition and with free prices, the CFDCs
and other distributors would be able to enforce grading and handling standards.
This would enable them to participate fully in distant and export markets and
meet the profitable demands of these markets for quality fruit. PFDCs would
also be strengthened under the project to provide CFDCs with international and
distant marketing services on an agreed commission basis.  The relationship
between CFDCs and the PFDC would be at the convenience of the parties, and
CFDCs would also be free to deal with national and provincial foreign trade
corporations. These arrangements are described in the contract between the
farmer and CFDC and in the charters of CFDCs and PFDCs.
3.18    To facilitate and streamline communication between production and
consumption centers, provincial and county FDCs would be equipped with telex,
facsimile, telephone, and office equipment (e.g., typewriters, copiers,
calculators and microcomputers).  Such equipment is needed to improve market
intelligence, speed up the decision making process and make producers and FDCs
more responsive to market signals and consumer demand.
Institutional Support
3.19    Domestic and International Training.  To achieve the project objectives
and implement its components on a sound technical basis, training at all levels
is crucial to the project. Domestic training would include courses of variable
duration in the areas of nurseries, orchard establishment and rehabilitation,
use of agrochemicals, cultural practices, marketing, accounting and finance.
Training would be provided for orchard managers, village technicians, extension
staff, PFDC and CFDC personnel. Instructional materials and courses would be
designed by the provincial bureaus of agriculture, cooperating research
institutes and other institutions. About 500 courses would be provided to



- 22 -
beneficiaries, project staff and staff of FDCs.  Inte tional training for
selected staff would be arranged for one to three months duration, depending on
subject matter in orchard management, post-harvest handling, marketing, virus
indexing, plant nutrition, plant protection, irrigation, and use of plant
growth regulators. A total of 83 staff (37 from Sichuan, 21 from Chongqing and
25 from Hubei) would receive international training. To provide managers of
FDCs and members of the Project Leading Groups (PLG) and Scientific and
Technical Committees (STCs) with sufficient knowledge and international
exposure to fruit production and marketing in other countries, study tours for
18 staff of one month duration would be provided (6 staff from each project
location).
3.20     Techlnical Assistance.  To strengthen research and extension staff
capability in project implementation, international experts in the areas of
virus indexing, irrigation, nutrition, post-harvest treatment and marketing
would be invited to China to conduct special training and lecture series. A
total of about 9-man months of consultancy services would be provided under the
project. This would interlink domestic and international training programs.
3.21     Eguipment for Research and Extension.  Cooperating research institutes
would be provided with equipment for virus indexing and post- harvest research.
Hand lenses, calculatorb, and visual aids (video equipment and slide
projectors) would be provided under the project for use in extension programs.
Some office furniture (e.g., desks, chairs and filing cabinets) would also be
provided.
D. Cost Estimates
3.22     The :otal project cost including physical and price contingencies is
estimated at JS$136.9 million with a foreign exchange component of US$63.8
million or 47% of the total. The production component amounts to $117.8
million (86% of the total cost), composed of or,hard establishment (US$101.8
million), orchard rehabilitation (US$13.7 million) and nurseries and budwood
mother gardens (US$2.3 million). The post-harvest and marketing component
would total US$13.1 million (9% of total project cost) and the institutional
support component amounts to US$5.9 million (4% of total cost). Cost estimates
are based on unit prices prevailing in the project area and current import
prices of imported items. Taxes and duties are not included in the estimated
costs. Physical contingencies are 5% for civil works and other components
except for labor, land acquisition, and organic fertilizer for which they are
zero. Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs when expressed in
US dollars are based on annual international price escalation rates for all
goods and services of 4.9% for 1990-1994. When expressed in Yuan, they are
based on price escalation rates of 14% for 1990, 10% for 1991, 8% for 1992 and
5% for 1993-94. Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.2 and detailed in
Annex 2, Tables 1-3.



- 23 -
Table 3.2 Summary of Estimated Project Costs
%                             %
Total                         Total
Base                       % Base
Local Foreign Total Cost Local Foreign Total FE Cost
(Yuan Million)           (US$ Million)
Nurseries and
Mother Tree Garden        5.4    4.2    9.6    2   1.1    0.9   2.0   48    2
Orchard Establishment    239.7  185.2  424.9   75  50.8   39.3  90.1   44   75
Orchard Rehabilitation    24.9   32.3   57.2   10   5.3    6.8  12.1   56   10
Marketing Facilities       25.0   29.1   54.1    9   5.3    6.2  11.5   54    9
Institutional Support      10.0   14.1   24.1    4   2.1    3.0   5.1   59    4
Base Cost a/          305.0  264.9  569.9  100  64.6   56.2 120.8   46  100
Physical Contigencies       6.6    7.4   14.0    2   1.4    1.6   3.0   53    2
Price Contingencies        71.7   62.6  134.3   24   7.1    6.0  13.1   46   11
Total Project Costs  383.3  334.9  718.2  126  73.1   63.8 136.9   47  113
a/ Project is exempt from taxes and duties.
E. Financing
3.23      Bank Group financing would be an IDA credit of SDR 48.6 million
(US$64.0 million equivalent) and would cover 47% of total project costs. The
remaining 53% would be financed as indicated in the following table of US
dollar equivalents:
US$ million
a)  IDA Credit                                   64.0
b)  Provincial and Municipal Governments          7.5
c)  Prefecture Governments (Sichuan)              2.5
d)  County Governments                           25.9
e)  Agricultural Bank of China                   13.0
f)  Beneficiaries                                24.0
Total                                      136.9
F. Procurement
3.24     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table.



- 24 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Profile
Procurement Method                    Toral
Project Element            ICB       LIB       LCB       Other     NA      Cost
(US$ million)
Land Acquisition                                                  0.6       0.6
(0.0)   (0.0)
Works                                         40.6                         40.6
(16.2)                      (16.2)
Land Prep. Materials                           10.8                        10.8
(3.3)                       (3.3)
Planting Materials                              2.3                         2.3
(0.9)                       (0.9)
Organic Fertilizer                                       11.0              11.0
(0.0)            (0.0)
Machinery & equipment        19.7     0.8       2.2                        22.7
(17.0)   (0.6)    (0.8)                      (18.7)
Vehicles & Boats              8.3                         0.2               8.5
(7.5)                       (0.0)            (7.5)
Fertilizer & Pesticides      15.2                                          15.2
(13.7)                                       (13.7)
Soil Amendments & Bordeaux
Mixture (Fungicide)                               6.1                       6.1
(2.3)                     (2.3)
Office Furniture & Supplies                               0.4               0.4
(0.2)            (0.2)
Training & Tech. Assistance                               1.2               1.2
(1.2)            (1.2)
Labor &                                                           17.5    17.5
Working Capital                                                    (0.0)   (0.0)
Total                        63.2     0.8       62.0     12.8     18.1   136.9
(38.2)   (0.8)    (23.6)    (1.4)    (0.0)  (64.0)
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
IDA Credit. All amounts include contingencies.



- 25 -
3.25     Works worth approximately US$40.6 million would be required for the
project. They would consist of small sprinkler systems for orchards, US$25.0
million; harvesting roads, US$3.3 million; irrigation ponds, US$5.1 million and
buildings, US$7.2 million. All would be scattered, scheduled over the life of
the project and small. None could be packaged into contracts exceeding US$0.5
million and would, therefore, not be of interest to foreign contractors. The
roads and irrigation ponds, total US$8.4 million, would be completed by the
participating farmers who would be managed by the County Bureaus of Agriculture
or Communications. The buildings and small sprinkler systems, total US$32.2
million however, would be let under LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.26      Goods  worth about US$77.0 million would be required for the project.
Most of the vehicles and boats, US$8.3 million; chemical fertilizers and
pesticides, US$15.2 million ; and machinery and construction equipment, US$19.9
million would be through ICB. The ICB procedures would be used for a total of
US$43.2 million or 56% of the value of all goods financed under the project. A
margin of preference equal to 15% of the C.I.F. price of imported goods or the
actual custom duties and imported taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to
the domestic manufacturers on IGB. Computers, drip irrigation and specialized
office equipment (US$0.8 million) would be procured on the basis of limited
international bidding (LIB). Land preparation materials, US$10.8 million;
planting materials, US$2.3 million; soil amendments and Bordeaux mixture
(fungicide); US$6.1 million and the research, extension and office equipment,
US$2.2 million would be procured through LCB procedures. Local shopping
procedures would be used to procure office furniture and supplies which in
total would not cost more than US$0.4 million. Adequate local manufacturing
and supply facilities offering reasonable prices exist for all goods not
procured through ICB procedures. The land preparation, plenting materials,
soil amendments and Bordeaux mixture are very bulky and require labor intensive
production methods. The minor machinery required must be compatible with the
existing domestic machinery. Even though most of the non-ICB goods would be
packaged together, delivery would be scheduled over three years and assigned to
many locations throughout the project. Because of the above reasons and the
necessity for widespread after-sales service, foreign firms would not be
interested in bidding for the goods scheduled for LCB or local shopping.
Passenger vehicles (minibuses), US$0.2 million would be financed by the
Government. Organic fertilizer, US$11.0 million will be acquired directly from
local sources and it will not qualify for IDA financing. The project
authorities have retained China National Machinery Import and Export
Corporation (MACHIMPEX) as their procurement agents. MACHIMPEX has been the
procurement agent for several Bank projects and is familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines and requirements. All procurement procedures that would
be used for the project have been found acceptable to IDA. The bid documents
that would be used are those that have been used on other recent Bank financed
projects in China and they would be reviewed to assure that they are still
acceptable to IDA. Detailed lists of the goods, giving the cost and the method
of procuremenf that would be used for each item, are shown in Annex 2, Tables
5.1-5.3.
3.27     Training and technical assistance worth approximately US$1.2 million
would be required for the project. This consists of: International specialists
and overseas training, US$0.7 million and domestic training, US$0.5 million.
The selection of consultants and the program for overseas training would be



- 26 -
formulated by the STCs based on the detailed training program to be prepared by
the Joint Project Management Office (JPMO) by negotiations. The employment of
consultants would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that: (i) training
programs would be reviewed by IDA prior to their finalization, and (ii) the
terms of reference of all international consultants and study tour programs
would be reviewed by IDA prior to obtaining MOF approval.
3.28     All packages valued in excess of US$200,000 for works, goods, services
and training regardless of procurement method used would be subject to IDA's
prior review. This is estimated to cover over 25% of the works, about six
packages, over 90% of the goods, about eight packages and 100% of the technical
assistance and overseas training. A procurement schedule, showing how the
goods would be packaged, as well as when and how they would be procured, are
shown in Chart 3.
G. Disbursements
3.29     Disbursements against expenditures for goods and materials would be
100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported items; 100% of the ex-factory
price for locally manufactured items; and 75% of other items procured locally.
Disbursement against the LCB contracts for civil works would be 40% of contract
expenditures. Disbursements for training, study tours, and consulting services
would at 100% of total expenditures.
3.30    Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs)
in the case of overseas training, study tours, and contracts for works, goods
and services each costing less than US$200,000. SOEs for building and
constructlon would be supported by progress reports showing physical quantities
and unit prices. For all other expenditures, documentation supporting the SOEs
would be retained by the Provincial and Municipal Project Management Offices
(PMOs) and made available for review by IDA supervision missions. In order to
provide for efficient disbursement, a Special Account administered by the Joint
Project Management Office (JPMO) would be opened in Beijing in a bank
acceptable to IDA. The authorized amount is US$4.1 million which represents
about 4 months of project expenditure. To facilitate launching of project
activities, particularly for land development, materials and civil works,
retroactive financing would be provided. An amount of up to US$6.0 million
would cover expenditures incurred after June 15, 1989. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly, or whenever
the Special Account is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
3.31     It is estimated that the project would be completed by December 31,
1994, and the closing date would be December 31, 1995. Disbursement experience
in China has been very favorable and better than Bank Group averages. The
project disburseme-nt profile is essentially in line with that for investment
loans in China. Estimated schedules of expenditures and disbursements are
given in Annex 2, Table 6.



27 -
H. Imlementation Schedul
3.32     The project would be carried out over a period of five and a half
years, from June 1989 to December 1994 (Chart 1). Training programs,
procurement and installation of research and extension equipment would be
concentrated in the first year. Similarly, land development and establishment
of nurseries would be concentrated in the first two years. Establishment of
new orchards would continue in all five years. Virus-free, healthy seedlings
would be selected by the STCs in the first two years of project implementation
with seedlings from existing nurseries until production from project nurseries
commences (year 3). Procurement and installation of packing lines would be
corcentrated in the first two years. A considerable amount of planning would
be undertaken in the first year especially for staffing FDCs, training,
procurement, land development, nurseries development, organization and
'anagement.  The proposed schedule is considered to be feasible due to the
demonstrated ability of MOA to implement ongoing Bank assisted projects and
MOA's effective relations with the provincial bureaus of agriculture in the
project area.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.33     Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment, materials,
irrigation, land development and agricultural inputs would be maintained by the
county PMOs.  These records would be forwarded to the provincial PMOs, which
would prepare consolidated accounts including separate accounts for local
expenditures and imports. The provincial PMOs would be responsible for
submitting reports to IDA through JPMO. JPMO will combine the provincial and
municipal accounts into one consolidated report to be submitted to IDA.
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the PMOs would maintain the
consolidated accounts of all components for annual auditing by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. The audited
accounts would include details of withdrawals from the Credit account made on
the basis of SOEs and the auditor's opinion as to whether such withdrawals were
against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA.
J. Environmental ImRacts
3.34     The environmental impact of the project would be quite positive,
especially in the area of soil conservation through terracing, contour
planting, incorporation of green manure, tree crops (fruits) and increased
vegetation in the terraced areas. Vetiver grass (Vetiveria Zizanioiaes) would
be experimentally introduced under the project to augment soil conservation
measures in newly established and rehabilitated orchards. No drainage or
salinity problems would result as all orchards are established on hilly slopes.
The use of agrochemicals, particularly fertilizers and pesticides, would follow
proven and safe recommendations under supervision of trained and qualified
extension staff and farm technicians. Farmers would be charged for
agrochemicals, and only safe agrochemicals would be procured under the project,
and would require IDA's prior approval. Assurances have been obtained at
negotiations that all effluents from packing lines would be treated and that
the provincial environmental bureaus would approve the final arrangement for
waste disposal, and would set up and maintain a system of monitoring effluent
quality throughout the life of the project.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGE 2R
A. Proiect Organization
4.1     The Governments of Sichuan and Hubei Provinces and Chongqing
Municipality would be responsible for overall project implementation under the
general supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) as represented by the
JPMO. JPMO has been established by the three project jurisdictions with a
secretariat located at XOA in Beijing to provide interprovincial coordination.
Staff of the JPMO would come from MOA and Project Management Offices (PMOs) of
Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing. To implement the project, each jurisdiction has
established these PMOs for interagency coordination at the provincial and
municipality level. Similarly, each county and prefecture (in Sichuan) has
established its PMO in the Bureaus of Agriculture. To guide JPKO and PMOs in
project policy matters at central, provincial and county levels, the project
would establish Project Leading Grcups (PLGs) at the respective levels. PLGs
would be cbaired by a Vice Minister of Agriculture at the central level, Vice
Governors/Vice Mayor at the provincial and municipality levels and county
chiefs at the county level. To foster and ie'lement fruit development,
production and marketing activities, Fruit De, lopment Corporations (FDCs) at
the provincial (PFDC) and county (CFDC) levels have been established. In
addition, each project jurisdiction has established a Scientific and Technical
Committee (STC) to make recommendations and establish policies on technical
aspects, particularly those related to the production of healthy seedlings,
establishment of orchards, post harvesting practices and training. The
organization for project implementation is shown in Chart 2.
4.2     Joint Proiect Management Office (JPMO).  The JPMO would be chaired by
an experienced MOA agriculturist (formerly a Deputy Director of MOA's Bureau of
Agriculture) and would be composed of two members representing MOA and three
representing the PMOs of Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing. It would meet
periodically as needed to implement policy decisions and resolve common
problems. JPMO would have the following functions, it would: (i) plan,
coordinate and implement project activities in cooperation with the PMOs at the
provincial/ municipality, prefecture and county levels; (ii) liaise with
project jurisdictions through their representatives in implementing project
policies; (iii) arrange combined procurement under ICB or LIB; (iv) coordinate
institutional development aspects, particularly overseas training and technical
assistance; (v) assist and coordinate preparation of applications for
withdrawal of the IDA credit; (vi) prepare consolidated accounts, audits and
progress reports; (vii) administer the special account; and (viii) undertake
project monitoring, evaluation and preparation of completion report.
4.3     Project Leading Grouns (PLGs).  Each major project jurisdiction would
establish a PLG to formulate project policies, review progress, facilitate
project implementation and resolve issues which may hamper progress. PLGs
would also be established at prefecture and county levels with the same
objectives. Membership of the PLGs at province, prefecture and county levels,
would be comprised of representatives from the Bureaus of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry, Planning, Finance, Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), and
other agencies involved in the project, e.g., Land Administration, Economic and
Trade Commission, Supply and Marketing Cooperatives and the Ministry of Light-



- 29 -
Industry. In addition, to facilitate PLG awareness of fruit development
activities, the managers of FDCs at the county and provincial levels weuld be
members of the respective PLGs.
4.4     Project Management Offices (PMOs).  PHOs at provincial/municipality,
prefecture and county levels would be established at the Bureau of Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry and would be responsible for project implementation under
the guidance of each PLG at the respective administrative level. Each PMO
would be sta'fed with trained and qualified technical, administrative,
financial, and management offices.  The PMOs would have a primary function of
assisting the FDCs to undertake their fruit development and marketing
functions. In addition, the PMOs would: (i) draw up annual, detailed work
programs and budgets for the project; (ii) review and approve lower level PMO
work plans; (iii) monitor the physical and financial progress of the project;
(iv) coordinate and supervise project implementation; (v) review and approve
technical specifications for land development, orchard establishment, orchard
rehabilitation and fruit harvesting; (vi) administer and coordinate project
training and technical assistance programs; (vii) liaise with JPMO on ICB and
LIB; (viii) undertake local competitive bidding; (ix) prepare, collate and
submit to JPMO detailed project accounts, audits and progress reports; and (x)
prepare withdrawal applications to IDA through JPMO and MOF. The PMOs at each
level would liaise between the project and the various technical and financial
bureaus that have support functions for the project.
4.5     Fruit DeveloRment CorRorations (FDCs).  FDCs are state-owned autonomous
legal entities with charters registered with the General Administration of
Industry and Commerce which define the scope of their activities, sources and
amounts of capital, borrowing powers and management structure. The FDCs
established under the project would operate as independent entities involved in
fruit development and marketing activities. They would implement the various
aspects of China's management responsibility system including management by
autonomous and personally responsible general managers and hired staff. To
introduce shareholding concepts and encourage producers' participation as
shareholders, the provincial and municipal governments would establish one CFDC
in each jurisdiction to operate as a joint stock company with zhareholders and
boards of directors. An understanding has been obtained during negotiations
that one CFDC would be selected from each jurisdiction for a joint stock
company and their draft charters would be submitted for IDA's review.
4.6       The provincial/municipality FDCs would operate as apex organizations
for CFDCs, responsible for providing market information and interprovincial and
future export marketing activities. Development and strengthening of a
responsive market inforLation system is crucial to the success of the FDCs.
The PFDCs would also act as central marketing organizations for CFDCs for
designated service fees. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that at
all times FDCs would operate as financially independent entities and would be
managed by competent and experienced staff.
4.7     On the production side, CFDCs would establish and manage mother tree
garden, open field and polyhouse nurseries financed by the project (para. 3.3).
CFDCs would also have an important role in production and would interrelate
with farmers as follows: Project farmers would be required to contract with
their county's CFDC for land and orchard development and irrigation



- 30 -
construction services.  The CFDC's in turn would arrarige for loans to project
farmers to finance these services (para. 4.11). Projeot farmers would also
directly contribute services to orchard development under their individual
contracts with the CFDC, e.g., planting of seedlings, production of organic
manure, application of inputs and maintenance of the immature orchard. They
would be required to use CFDC-supplied seedlings and certain CFDC-supplied
inputs. To augment the incomes of farmers during orchard development, the CFDC
would give preference in hiring to members of farmers' families. Such
activities as nursery establishment and operation, land development, irrigation
construction, development of county-owned orchards and construction of post
harvest treatment and storage facilities would all require hired labor.
4.8     On the marketiuig side, CFDCs would purchase fruit from farmers
according to a pricing schedule differentiated by grade and sell in local,
distant and export markets (paras. 3.2,3.10,3.16,3.18,5.12). The CFDCs would
provide extensive marketing-related services using equipment financed by the
project; all CFDCs would operate transport facilities and the majority would
operate packing lines and storage facilities (paras. 3.11,3.14,3.15). CFDC
marketing activities would commence in advance of new production under the
project (pars. 3.12). CFDU packing lines would be in operation as early as
year 2 and would pack and market supplies purchased from existing production
and from rehabilitated and new orchards when they come into production in year
2 or 3 and year 5, respectively. CFDCs would operate in a competitive or
potentially competitive environment: Farmers would not be constrainted in
selling to other buyers (including CFDCs from other counties), and CFDCs would
not be obligated to purchase farmers' output in their own counties (para.
3.17). Farmers at their option would also not be required to repay loans in
delivered fruit, but could repay them in cash (para. 4.14), thus preserving a
market relationship with the CFDCs.
4.9     An understanding was reached at negotiations on operational guidelines
for the CFDCs regarding their financial soundness, including requirements that
they maintain a debt-equity ratio no greater than 5:1, that corporation
investments financed under the project should have a financial rate of return
of at least 12%, and that subloans approved by CFDCs to farmers would be at
interest rates no lower than currently prevailing ABC rates for similar
subloans.
4.10     Scientific and Technical Committees (STCs).  To advise PLGs, PHOs and
FDCs at all levels, STCs composed of technical specialists in all areas of
fruit development, including virus indexing, budwood registration, orchard
establishment, orchard rehabilitation and post-harvest treatment, would be
established at the central, provincial and county levels and would also be
involved in planning and designing domestic and international training programs
and technical assistance. Periodic meetings between STCs at central and
provincial/municipal and county levels would be undertaken, particularly to
review previous plans and formulate future ones. Membership of the STCs would
be composed of eminent scientists from cooperating research institutes,
managers of Provincial Bureaus of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, and ATECs
and other agencies involved in the project.



- 31 -
B. Financial Management
4.11     Flow of Funds.  Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be onlent by MOF to
the provincial governments of Sichuan and Hubei and to Choxigqing Municipality
at a 5.5% annual rate of interest with repayment of 17 years, including a
ssven-year grace period. The provincial/municipality governments would onlend
to the CFDCs through t.heir County Bureaus of Finance. These jurisdictions
woulc be responsible for raising counterpart funds. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the provincial/ municipality governments. Some IDA funds
would be disbursed directly to suppliers under ICB contracts, and an additional
portion would be used to cover the costs of institutional development aspects
(technical assistance, training and equipment). Contracts would be signed at
each level of government and at each stage of relending operation, indicating
the terms of lending and repayment obligations. Subloan applications for
orchard establishment and orchard rehabilitation would be submitted to PMO for
technical evaluation and CFDC for financial evaluation. Subloan approval would
be undertaken by CFDCs after consultation with county PMOs.  Farmers would have
to sign contracts with CFDCs for their services in orchard astablishment. Tne
contracts would be kept at local branches of ABC. The costs of GFDC ser'ices,
including procurement of inputs and installation of irrigation systems, would
be charged to farmer accounts. CFDC funds would be deposited at ABC county
branches, which would disburse and collect repayments for aLl subloans to
project beneficiaries, including the CFDCs (e.g., working capital after filst
year). In acting as an agent for the CFDCs, the ABC would charge a loan-
processing fee. Funds onlent from CFDCs to collective orchards or farmers
under the project would be at interest rates not less than the prevailing ABC
rates for si-ilar purposes, which are currently about 19% per annum for
development projects. For civil works, Chongqing will usQ the Bank of
Construction to handle funds earmarked for construction putrposes. An
understanding has been reached at negotiations specifying the terms and
conditions of loans between the various lenders and borrowers.
4.12     A combined project agreement between IDA and the two provinces
incorporating the above terms and conditions would be signed. State Council
approval of tie Development Credit Agreement and arrangements satisfactory to
IDA between the Borrower and Chongqing allowing the latter to implement the
project would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.13     Domestic funds, which account for about 53% of the project costs wouldl
come from the provincial/municipality governments, prefectural, county and
township governments in the form of special budgetary allocations and loans.
Subloan beneficiaries would contribute about 18% of the subloan amounts mainly
in the form of labor contribution and farm manure. An assurance has been
obtained at negotiations that provincial/municipality, prefecture and county
governments and lending inst4tutions would provide, in & timely fashion, the
required contributions to the counterpart funds. After 1:roject completion at
the end of year 5, beneficiaries will in general require modest amounts of
credit to finance proper maintenance of orchards until they are in full
production. An assurance has been obtained during negotiations that ABC or
other financial institutions would make the necessary fundirg available to
project beneficiaries after project completion and until orchards reach full
development.



- 32 -
4.14     Recovery of Projbct Investments.  Local branches of ABC would serve as
the agents for CFDCs in recovery of project loans from farmers for a service
charge to be agreed between both parties. Farmers would have the right to
repay in cash (and receive cash payment from the CFDCs). Full recovery of the
IDA portion of total project funding would be guaranteed by the financial
bureaus of the participating provinces and the municipality. Counties and
prefectures would repay the provinces and the municipality, which would, in
turn, repay MOF for the use of the IDA credit. Domestic funds would be
recovered in a similar manner and according to terms and conditions determined
by local governments.
C. Execution of Project Works
4.15     The CZDCs and PMOs would be responsible for implementing the project
components particularly land development, orchard establishment and
rehabilitation, and marketing facilities. The line agencies, represented in
the PMOs, would be responsible for undertaking infrastructure construction as
power supply, roads, bridges and culverts. The PMOs would implement the
institutional development aspects in cooperation with STCs, ATECs, and the JPNO
at MOA. To initiate ths implementation phase of the proposed project, the
JPMO, in collaboration with PHOs, would conduet a project launch workshop to
review the overall process of implementation and to clarify individual tasks
and responsibilities at each level. Other topics to be covered would include
procurement and disbursement procedures, project financial management,
accounting and auditing, reporting and monitoring and evaluation.
D. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.16     The provincial/municipality, prefectural and county PMOs would monitor
the project's progress and evaluate its economic and financial benefits for
each component and overall impact, including the impact of the operations of
the PFDCs and CFDCs. In order to assess project achievements adequately, MOA
has agreed to conduct a baseline survey using the services of the Economic
Research Institute of CAAS, which would plan the survey and finalize
questionnaires following their review at negotiations. The survey would be
completed before the end of the first year of project implementation. Under
the guidanqe and supervision of JPMO at MOA, the PMOs in the project counties,
prefectures and provinces/municipality would establish a system of project
monitoring and evaluation. Such a system would include physical indicators
(land development, establishment and rehabilitation of orchards, number of
healthy seedlings, road construction, civil works, procurement of inputs) and
production indicators, including information on quality, grading, packing,
ttansportation, etc. Financial indicators would track project financing,
availability of foreign and local funds, and claims for disbursements against
credit proceeds. Special emphasis would be accorded to monitoring and
evaluation of FDCs at the provincial and county levels. The objectives of the
system would be to identify constraints early and initiate corrective measures.
In addition, the system would be expected to lead to an upgrading of FDC and
PMO capabilities in project implementation and to introduce businesslike
methods of FDC operations. A list of key indicators is shown in Annex 3,
Tables 8.1-8.4.



- 33 -
4.17      To disseminate lessons learned during'project implementation, annual
seminars attended by project staff would be organiud by the PiOs and STCs to
discussed findings ane special problems faced by different counties and entities
including the FDCs.  Experts from key horticultural research institutes and
extension staff would participate in these seminars. Project physical and
financii4l progress reports on a semester basis (6 months) would be prepared by
provincial/municipality PNOa and submitted to IDA through JPMO. ln addition, a
detail(ed mid-term review of the project would be carried out by JPMO. The
format of the progress reports and mid-term report has been agreed with IDA
during the project launch workshop (September, 1989). Finally, JPMO would
prepare a Project Completior. Report for submission to IDA within six months
after the closing date of the Credit's disbursement.
V.  PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. POUTO
5.1       The incremental production of the project would come mainly from the
establishment of new and rehabilitated orchards with a broader mix of varieties,
including early and late maturiag ontes. Higher productivity in these orchards
would result from higher-quality seedlings, improved irrigation, better cultural
practices, greater use of fertilizer and pestieides, better harvesting and post-
harvest practices, and more effective fruit marketing. Since the new orchards
would be established primarily in hilly areas, where small shrubs and grass
vegetation now dominate and where only minor grazing has been possible, changes
in cropping pattern would not be an important aspect of the project.
Yield and Production
5.2       The introduction of improved virus-free varieties, balanced
fertilizers, integrated pest management and dry-season irrigation under the
,project would increase yields substantially. The present citrus yield at full
development ranges from 9-15t/ha compared to 24-30t/ha with the project. The
yield profile for new project orchards shows citrus production starting in year
4 with gradually increasing yields until full production in years 10 to 15. The
trees would stay at full production until about year 40, after which yield would
gradually decline until replacement becomes economic, some time after year 50.
Valencia and mandarin varieties would give 2.5 t/ha in year 4, increase to full
production of 27 t/ha around year 10 or 11, and maintaln this yield through year
40. Sweet oranges would have the same profile through year 10 but would
continue to increase to 30t/ha at year 15 and then maintain this level through
year 40. Navels would produce 6t/ha in year 4 and reach full production in year
11 with a yield of 24t/ha. Pomelo would start in year 5 with a yield profile of
2.25t/ha and then increase to full production of 22.5t/ha in year 10.
5.3       The non-citrus fruit varieties start bearing at various dates and have
various yields at the start but all reach full production in year 10 or 11.
Yellow ppaches and plums start bearing in year 3 with yields of 2.5t/ha and have
full-production yields of 22.5 and 24 t/ha. Loquats, pears and kiwi start
production in year 4 with yields of 2.25,3.75 and 2.25t/ha respectively and have
full-production yields of 15, 37.5, 22.5 t/ha, respectively. Both lychee and
longan start in year 5 at 0.75t/ha and have full-production yields of 11.25



- 34 -
t/ha. All of these yields are substantially higher than current yields in the
project area, but are easily achievable in the project areas with the
improvements outlined in para. 5.1.
5.4      For rehabilitated orchards, improved yields due to new inputs and
irrigation water, better cultural practices and improved management would begin
in year 2 and would reach full potential in year 7 (trees about 15 year old).
The incremental yields in year 7 would be 17t/ha for sweet orange, llt/ha for
Valencia, 16.5t/ha for navel and 15.3t/ha for yellow peaches.
5.5       Total annual project production from *uew orchards would be 256,880
tons of citrus and 48,215 tons of other fruit. Incremental annual production of
rehabilitated orchards would be 40,340 tons for citrus and 1,500 tons for yellow
peaches. The area, yields and production at full development for new and
rehabilited orchards are shown in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1 Yields. Planted Area and Production by Jurisdiction
I. Dxs       Yield at    Sichuan    Chongqing        Hubei          Total
Orchards  Full Dev. Area  Prod.  Area  Prod.  Area  Prod.   Area   Prod.
(t/ha)  (ha)  (ton)  (ha) (ton)  (ha)  (ton)    (ha)  (ton)
Citrus:
-Sweet Orange    30  1,794  53,820 1,260 37,800   966 28,980  4,020 120,600
-Valencia        27  1,100  29,700   540 14,580   433 11,691  2,073  55,971
-Navel           24  1,530  36,720    60  1,440   800 19,200  2,390  57,360
-Mandarin        27    100   2,700      0      0   500 13,500    600  16,200
-Pomelo        22.5    100   2,250   200  4,500       0      0    300   6,750
Subtotal             4,624 125,190 2,060 58,320 2,699 73,371  9,383, 256,881
Other Fruits:
-Lychees       11.25   900  10,125      0      0      0      0    900  10,125
-Longans       11.25    94   1,058      0      0      0      0     94   1,058
-Y. Peaches    22.5      0        0   260   5,850  567 12,758    827  18,608
-Loquats       15       116   1,740     0      0   200  3,000    316   4,'740
-Plums         24        66   1,584     0      0    67  1,608    133   3,192
-Pears         37.5      0       0      0      0   200  7,500    200   7,500
-Kiwi          22.5      0       0      0      0   133  2,993    133   2,993
Subtotal             1,176  14,507   260  5,850 1,167 27,858   2,603  48,215
Total New Orchards   5.800 139.697 2.320 64.170 3.866 101.229 11.986 305.096
II. &Xisti.ng Incre.  Area  Incre.  Area  Incre.   Area  Inere.   Area  Incre.
Orchards Yield          Prod.          Prod.           Prod.         Prod
-Citrus:              500   8,500   240  4,080   1,633 27,761  2,373  40,341
Sweet Orange 17     140   2,380                  1,633 27,761  1,773  30,141
Valencia     11      220   3,740   240  4,080                    460   7,820
Navel        16      140   2,380                                 140   2,380
-Y. Peaches   15.3      0            100  1,530        0           100   1,530
Total Ex. Orchards      500   8.500   340  5.610   1.633 27.761  2.473 41.81



- 35 -
B. MARKETS
Domestic Markets
5.6       Demand:  Consumption of fruit in China has increased rapidly in recent
years, despite a fourfold increase in relative fruit prices resulting from price
decontrol. This surge in consumption was due to rising incomes and the release
of suppressed demand after the previous era of shortages. Total consumption of
fruit of all varieties increased from 6.6 million to 16.7 million tons from 1978
to 1987, while per capita consumption increased from 6.8 kg per capita in 1978
to 15.4 kg per capita in 1987. Dramatic though this increase is, China's per
capita fruit consumption is still small compared to the world average of 65 kg
per capita. Since fruit is a superior good, increases i.a per capita income will
bring greater-than-proportional increases in fruit demand.
5.7       In line with the general increase in fruit demand, demand for citrus
increased substantially during the last decade, and consumption increased from
0.4 kg per capita in 1978 to 3 kg per capita in 1987. It is expected to
continue to increase rapidly. The citrus demand projection of an FAO/CP study,
based on the assumptions of an annual income increase of 5.5% until 1995 and 4%
thereafter, an annual growth in population of 1% over the period 1986 to 2010
and an income elasticity of demand of +1.2, indicates that the per capita citrus
consumption would be 9.0 in 1995, 11.9 kg in year 2000 and 13 kg in year 2010.
Such an increase has not been uncommon in the experience of other developing
countries. Consumption of citrus about doubled in the eight years 1976 to 1984
in a number of countries, including Morocco, Libya, Lebanon, Bulgaria and Cuba.
The experience of Taiwan may also be relevant in order to examine cultural
factors that might limit eventual per capita consumption. Per capita
consumption in Taiwan was, in fact, 20 kg in 1983 and was undoubtedly higher in
1987 in line with its higher per capita income. The World Bank Commodity Price
Projection Division projects that world average per capita citrus consumption
would be 16.3 kg in the year 2000. This is 37% higher than the per capita
consumption projected by FAO/CP for China in the same year.
5.8       There are several reasons to believe that the FAO/CP projection for
the year 2000 may be on the low side. First, the income elasticity estimate
used in the study comes from the period of low consumption prior to price
decontrol and may be obsolete. A more recent MOA estimate of citrus income
elasticity is 1.8. Secondly, and probably more important, the national shift in
the mix of varieties that is occurring will result in a much longer harvest
season than at present. Current production is mainly mandarin oranges and
tangerines (in total, 78% of production in 1987), and these varieties are
normally harvested almost entirely during November and December. Future
production will involve a major change in variety mix and harvest period. By
the year 2000, it is expected that mandarin oranges and tangerines will be only
50% of total production. The satsuma, early-maturing varieties harvested during
September and early October would be 15% of national production. The late-
maturing sweet orange harvested during January to March would be 25% of
production (Research on extending maturity of sweet orange is in progress).
Valencia, harvested during April and May, would be 10% of production. This
would increase the period of citrus consumption from the present two-month
season to a future eight-month one, and affordable prices would therefore
prevail for a much longer period during the year. This increase in the length



- 36 -
of the consumption season is ar. independent factor not taken into account in the
FAO/CP projection. MOA's projection of per capita consumption in the year 2000,
which takes account of both its higher estimate of income elasticity and the
increased consumption season, is 15.8 kg per capita, a figure that is still
somewhat below the Bank's projected world average and within the reasonable
range.
5.9       The production of citrus under the project would be too small to have
a significant effect on prices in the national market. The project would
produce an incremental production of about 297,000 tons annually at full
development. This represents only 3% of the year 2000 projected national
production (10 million tons). In the actual situation probably 80% of citrus
production would be marketed in the projecr provinces themselves, but prices
would be formed in the national market and trade flows in and out of the
production areas would be responsive to and would equilibrate local and national
prices. Project farmers would benefit fully from the higher prices during the
early and late seasons, since production under the project would have a variety
mix with 52% early and late maturing and navel varieties.
5.10      The incremental production of other fruit in the project would also be
small compared to national production and would also not have a significant
effect on prices. At full development, lychee and longan production would be
only 11,000 tons which would represent only 1.5% of projected national
production (336,000 for longan and 388,000 tons for lychee in the year 2000).
The project's production of loquats, yellow peaches, pears, plums and kiwi would
be negligible as a percent of national production (less than 1%). There is
presently unmet demand at prevailing prices for fresh and processed consumption
in the producing areas. Fresh lychees and longans are used widely as gifts
during festival periods, and markets in the project area appear to have
difficulty securing adequate supplies at these times. Any excess production of
longans can be dried and sold in the national market. Loquats, kiwi and yellow
peaches are marketed fresh in produce markevs or are sold to processing
factories. The demand for fresh fruit has tended to outcompete the demand from
processing plants, which have been operating well below capacity in recent years
but which would provide significant demand at lower prices and thus place a
floor under prices. Plums and pears would be consumed fresh and would be only a
small fraction of local production.
5.11      Markets:  The domestic market for fruit within China comprises two
basic segments, i.e., those markets near the production areas (local markets)
and those which are far from production areas and require long distance
transport. The local markets range all the way from small village markets near
the orchards to large municipal markets, such as the one in Chongqing, with
various levels of sophistication and organization. The large distant markets
are those of major centers, such as Beijing and Shanghai and their hinterlands.
The demand for oranges is large in the major distant markets, and the selection
of markets thus involves weighing of factors such as prices, transportation
costs and losses in tran,port. It is likely that farmers whose orchards are
very near to local markets will continue to sell at least some of their crops
locally because they can retain the full wholesale, and in some cases, retail
price for themselves, and they would remain free to sell to any private
wholesale channels that might emerge.



- 37 -
5.12      Aside from the small amount of these direct sales by farmers, the
citrus produced under the project would be purchased by CFDCs, which would
arrange for farm pick up and would grade, pack and transport the fruit. Some
part of the citrus would be stored for more favorable prices in periods of
relative seasonal scarcity. The CFDCs would be trading in the full range of
markets - county wholesale markets, distant markets in major cities and foreign
trade corporations or foreign buyers for exports. The major role of the FDCs
does not preclude the rigl.~. of individual producers to sell their product
directly in open markets or to other buyers, including CFDCs from other
counties, so CFDCs will have to provide a competitive service to retain their
source of supply.
5.13      Other fruits such as lychees, longans, yellow peaches and loquats are
highly perishable in unprocessed form, and only a small amount is presently
marketed outside the producing area. In 1987 out of 116,000 tons of lychee and
80,000 tons of longan production in China, only 320 tons of lychees and 200 kg
of longans were marketed in Beijing. The processing industry for yellow
peaches, loquats and kiwi in the region could easily expand production if it
could obtain supplies. Demand for canned yellow peaches and loquat is very high
in both domestic and export markets. Kiwi would be consumed fresh or sold to
processing factories as raw material for juice, jam, wine and candy.
C. MARKETING FOR EXPORT
5.14      In China, most foreign trade is carried out by centralized foreign
trade corporations (FTCs), which are organized along product lines. The FTCs
are regulated by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT).
Provincial branches of this ministry are called Foreign Trade Bureaus (FTBs).
The national FTCs conduct the full range of trading activities, often through
their provincial branches (provincial FTCs), from the identification of markets
and negotiation of contracts, to the procurement of goods from producers and
shipment to buyers. The FTCs seek buyers mainly at trade fairs, such as the
semi-annual Canton (Guangzhou) Trade Fair. Virtually all of China's
agricultural exports are marketed through bulk contracts entered into at these
fairs. The major export market for citrus from China is the USSR, with which
China has a bilateral citrus trade agreement. There are also presently small
export markets in Hongkong, Canada and Southeast Asian countries. Citrus trade
with Hongkong and Canada is also partly done directly by the FTCs through their
Hongkong and Canadian agents.
5.15      The FTCs in Sichuan and Hubei provinces and Chongqing municipality are
presently the sole exporters of citrus from their respective jurisdictions. In
response to the new economic reforms of the foreign trade system, the FDCs
established under the project would also have the right to trade directly with
foreign buyers. FDCs may contract with FTCs to do their business for them or
trade directly in competitive markets such as Hongkong, Canada and South East
Asian countries.
Exgort Markets
5.16      The USSR is a natural market for Chinese citrus.  The bilateral trade
agreement provides for up to 200,000 tons per year of Chinese oranges and
mandarins to Siberia. Since only about 50,000 tons are currently shipped, there



- 38 -
is potential for a fourfold increase. Payment by the USSR is apparently about
half in hard currency (e.g. Swiss francs) and half in bartered commodities in
shortage in China (e.g. timber, steel and fertilizer).
5.17    The Chinese citrus area is the closest to Siberia among the world's
major citrus producing regions. Volume of supply, varieties, the rail transport
link and resulting low cost, the bilateral agreement and the USSR's acceptance
of existing Chinese quality means that China has several competitive advantages
in this sizable market. Sichuan started exporting citrus to the USSR since
1982, with the volume of about 20,000 tons in 1987. Chongqing exported 7,000
ton of sweet oranges and red tangerines to the USSR in 1987 and Hubei 7,000
tons of sweet and navel oranges. With the project, Sichuan, Chongqing and Hubei
expect to export 36,000, 25,000 and 29,000 tons, respectively, to the USSR and
Eastern European countries.
5.18      Hongkong is also a natural market for Chinese citrus from the
standpoint of geography, but it is a highly competitive market whose major
suppliers are USA, Australia, South Africa and Taiwan. California oranges
comprise 90X of total imports (to Hongkong and Macao) of 80,000 to 100,000 tons
annually because of their high quality, near-year-round availability and range
of varieties (both navel and Valencia). Oranges from South Africa and Australia
account for 31 to 51 of the Hongkong market and their share is growing due to
their seasonal advantage (April-May harvesting season), which occurs when
California supplies and quality are lowest. Chinese oranges account for only 2X
of the Hongkong market share. Consumer perception of Chinese oranges as low
quality makes it difficult for Chinese oranges to penetrate the market.
Hongkong wholesalers, however, report that there are examples of high quality
oranges coming from specific areas in China, and these have been able to command
higher prices. Oranges from Hun Kong farm and Wutze Nountain in Hainan are
examples of good quality fruits.
5.19      Southeast Asian markets are just as competitive as Hongkong, and
Chinese oranges have to face the same tough competitors in this region, in
addition to local competition. Japan may offer some export potential as trade
barriers come down, but China will have to compete with the USA and other
international suppliers of oranges. Canada has historically been a market for
Chinese mandarins and will likely continue to be.
5.20      Of the three project jurisdictions, only Chongqing and Hubei exported
small amounts of oranges to Hongkong in 1987 (100-200 tons per annum of sweet
oranges from Chongqing and 200 tons of navel oranges from Hubei). At full
development, the project expects to export 6,000 tons of citrus to Hongkong and
Macao and 3,000 tons to Southeast Asian countries. Compared to the present,
they would have increased their competitiveness due to variety and seasonal
factors, since 52X of new orchards established under the project would be
planted to early and late-maturing oranges and navel. Sichuan is also hoping to
be able to export small amounts of late-maturing lychees to Hongkong. Hubei
exported about 200 tons of satsuma mandarins to Canada in 1987, and all project
Jurisdictions would attempt to participate in exports to this destinatioa, which
imports about 100,000 tons of oranges annually in total.
5.21      Despite China's desire to boost its citrus exports, penetration of
export markets will at times be difficult due to international competition from
many sources, especially the USA. Nevertheless, there are current examples of



- 39 -
Chinese oranges being successfully marketed at relatively good prices (para.
5.18), and there are wholesalers who are willing to market high quality Chinese
oranges. The market niche is expected to be in a medium range resembling
Australian and South African quality. The expectation at present is that this
niche will be at the higher quality range of current Chinese production. To
take advantage of the demonstrated openness of export markets to quality Chinese
oranges, it would be a wise marketing strategy to promote the market identity of
Chinese citrus through enforcing a policy of not allowing low-quality citrus to
reach export markets. The Export Commodity Production Areas under development
by CEROILS in Hubei and Sichuan have made a good start in developing good
quality oranges and in ensuring that only competitive quality is exported. With
the project, the quality of oranges would be highly improved. This arrangement
would help to counteract the present low quality image of Chinese oranges.
D. Prices
Domestic Prices
5.22      In recent years, China has implemented a number of reforms intended to
expand the role of markets and prices in directing production of and trade in
agricultural commodities. At the end of 1983, fruit was changed from a Category
TI to a Category III commodity. This important decision removed mandatory
quotas for producers to supply the government and established a national policy
of market-determined prices. Producers, wholesalers and retailers are no longer
subject to Government restrictions regarding the prices they set for fresh or
processed fruit, and where and how much they buy and sell. Even though some
government pricing bureaus are still attempting to fix prices for some citrus
products, they have not been successful and local authorities now anticipate
that no further attempts will be made to impose price restrictions. Both
quantity and price can, therefore, now be considered to be market-determined. A
good example of market determination of prices is the effect of the 1988 drought
on prices. Reduction in production (an average of 13% according to official
statistics) resulted ia an increase of prices of 43-61% for citrus and 12-50%
for other fruits. Ths 1987 and 1988 average farmgate, wholesale and retail
prices of various fcvits in the project area are summarized in the Table 5.2.
5.23           In general, farmgate citrus prices average around Yl-1.5/kg
during harvest, with wholesale price about 20% above farmgate prices and retail
prices about another 20% higher. Marketing in the off-season, after 3 to 4
months of storage, results in wholesale and retail prices almost double chose
during the harvesting season. Citrus prices are influenced by the grading and
packing techniques that are used. Fruit that is graded and packed according to
size and appearance commands higher average prices than bulk ungraded fruit.
Waxing and packing in cardboard cartons, rather than bamboo baskets results in
prices often 50% higher.



- 40 -
Table 5.2    Domestic Prices of Fruit (vuan/kE)
1987                          1988
_- - - - - - - - - - - - -  . .    ......... . . . . . .
Farm  Wholesale    Retail      Farm     Wholesale Retail
Oranges:
Sweet        0.9       1.1       1.3       1.6       1.9       2.2
Nqavel       1.5       1.8       2.1       2.9       3.5       4.0
Valencia     1.1       1.3       1.5       2.6       3.0       3.5
Mandarin       1.0       1.2       1.4       1.7       2.0       2.3
Pomelo         0.9       1.1       1.3       1.8       2.0       2.4
Y. Peaches     1.2       1.4       1.6       1.3       1.6        1.8
Longans        2.5       3.0       3.5       4.3       5.2       6.0
Lychees        2.8       3.5       4.0       6.5       7.8       9.0
Loquats        1.8       2.1       2.5       2.9       3.5       4.0
Pear           0.9       1.2       1.4       0.9       1.2       1.4
Plum           1.0       1.3       1.5       1.3       1.6       1.8
Kiwi           1.4       1.7       2.0       2.1       2.6       3.0
Sources: Provinces and Bank mission's survey for 1987 and 1988 seasons.
5.24      The project financial analysis has been conducted using actual 1987
prices adjusted by 10% to reflect the general price increase. These modified
1987 prices were used because actual 1988 prices were urusually high due to the
drought. The financial prices used, therefore, are real 1987 prices expressed
in 1988 yuan. To be conservative, only two prices (per kg) were used for
oranges: a high, export-derived farmgate price for navel oranges of Y1.7 and a
common price for all other varieties (sweet, mandarin, Valencia) equal to the
main harvest price for mandarin oranges of Y1.l. For pomelo, a price of Y.o
was used. For longans and lychees, the prices assumed were Y3.1 and Y2.7/kg,
respectively; for loquats and yellow peaches, Y2 and Y1.3/kg, respectively; and
for pears, plums and kiwi, YO.9, Y1.2 and Y1.6/vg, respectively. These market
prices of existing production are considered very conservative for project
output, since quality will improve with the project.
5.25      In the case of oranges, a pasticular effort to use conservative prices
in the financial analysis was made because of the possibility that a national
situation of excess supply could result in a significant decline in the average
farmgate price. For this conservative purpose, no price premium was assigned
(i) for the premium Valencia and sweet orange varieties (which would be 69% of
project output), (ii) for the improved quality of project output due to improved
seedlings and cultural practices, or (iii) for the seasonal premium that early
and late-maturing output would command. The idea is that by not assigning a
premium price for project output, any price decline due to excess supply in the
national market would be wholly or partially offset by the price premium that
project output would attract due to its superior characteristics and timing. If
the price premium would average 25% for project output compared to national
main-harvest mandarin prices, the price of project output could decline by 25%
before it reachfd the real 1988 mandarin price used in the financial analysis.



. 41 -
5.26      The main basis for believing that there would be a significant
national price decline for oranges is the FAO/CP study, which projected that
supply will increase faster than demand and that real farmgate prices will in
consequence decline by 25% by 1990 compared to 1986 and by 39% by 1995. There
are two reasons to conclude that the price declines projected by the FAO/CP
study, however, are probably too great. First, it was concluded above (para.
5.8) that the FAO/CP projection of demand was probably too low, because it
lumped all varieties under citrus and also did not take account of the extended
consumption season that the new varieties would allow. This greater demand from
the extended season would of necessity result in higher farmgate prices than
those projected by the FAO/CP study. International trade would be a second
factor that would tend to prevent the very large price decline projected by the
FAO/CP study. The Bank international citrus price projection for the year 2000
is for a real price decline of only 3%. If a large price advantage should open
up for Chinese citrus, as it would if the Bank's _rojected international price
coexisted with the FAO/CP study's projected Chinese price, exports of all
varieties would be likely to increase dramatically and result in a smaller
decline in the Chinese price than the one projected by the FAO/CP study. In any
case, the international market will almost surely govern the prices obtained for
the project's navel output (about 25% of the total). Since it is expected that
navel would be exported to Hong Kong, the Hong Kong price is used as the
projected financial price for navel oranges.
Exnort Prices
5.27      The 1987 international price of oranges was US$456/t.1  Sweet and
Valencia oranges exported to the USSR from China received US$430/t and US$460/t
for ungraded and untreated oranges. Satsuma mandarin exported to Canada
received US$447/t. US oranges, premium grade, sell in the Hongkong market at
US$1,000-1,200/t; choice grade sells at US$500-800/t. Chinese oranges generally
sell in Hongkong at US$300-400. However, high-quality Chinese oranges sell at
US$600-lOOO/t in Hongkong. Navel oranges exported from Sichuan and Hubei to
Hongkong received a price of about US$650 in 1987. In the 1988 season, exports
to the USSR were lower than estimated due to shortage in supplies, and the
prices received from the USSR were about 16% higher than the 1987 prices. It is
expected that, with the project, the project jurisdictions would be able to
export more to the USSR and other countries, because the better quality citrus
from the project would be able to command higher prices in the USSR market and
capture a higher market share in other export markets.
5.28      For economic analysis, citrus production is valued at 1987 USSR,
Hongkong and Canada borders adjusted by 15% to reflect 1989 values. Sweet and
Valencia oranges are valued at USSR border prices, considering that China has
geographical advantages over other producers and will continue to export to
USSR. Exports of Valencia oranges are expected to increase, since this variety
is available in late spring and early summer when the international supply of
oranges is low. Navel oranges are priced at the existing Hongkong prices for
Chinese navels, adjusted for domestic transportation and handling costs.
Mandarin oranges are valued at Canadian border prices for Satsuma, since the
majority of project mandarin would be Satsuma. These border-derived economic
prices appear to be very realistic, since they are within a 5% range around
11 Mediterranean Exporters, EC indicative price, CIF Paris.



- 42 -
actual farmgate prices (Annex 3, Table 3.1). Economic prices for the years
1995 and 2000 are based on the long-term citrus price movements as projected by
the World Bank which indicated that real citrus prices will increase by 6.3% in
1995 and decrease by 3.2% by the year 2000. For other fruits, market prices
(Annex 3, Table 3.2) are used to derive economic farm gate prices and are
expected to remain constant over t.he project life. International prices
adjusted for international and doraestic transportation costs are used to derive
the economic costs of farm inputs, such as fertilizer, pesticides and other
imported items. Economic prices for citrus, other fruits and farm inputs can
be found in Annex 3, Tables 3.1-3.2.
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The major benefits of the project are the incremental production,
which would result from the investment and from the adoption of new
technologies, and increased rural incomes. The new orchards developed by the
project would provide incremental production of citrus, lychees, longans,
yellow peaches, loquats, pears, plums and kiwi. The incremental annual
production of new citrus orchards at full development, net of on-farm costs, is
valued at US$61.5 million annually (in 1989 constant dollars). The value of
the incremental production of other new fruit orchards at full development is
estimated at US$15.3 million annually. Existing orchards rehabilited under the
project would provide incremental production of citrus and yellow peaches
valued at US$10.8 million annually.
6.2       The project would also benefit the jurisdictions involved by
providing the fruit industries with necessary services and a strong technical
and commercial base. The development of virus-free citrus seedlings, improved
summer varieties and new cultural practices would provide benefits not only in
the project area but in the whole region.  Likewise, the integrated production
and marketing system would increase the efficiency of the whole fruit industry
in the region and perhaps in China. The marketing organizations developed by
the project (the FDCs), for example, would provide models that, if successful,
could be established in other regions and for other commodities. The grading
system developed under the project would help to establish price variations by
quality and grade and thereby give farmers an incentive to produce quality
products.
6.3       The development of the hilly areas with contouring and terracing
would improve environmental conditions. Roads built and rehabilitated by the
project would provide accessibility to markets and allow other commercial
activities requiring transportation.
B. Emloyment and Incomes
6.4       F1t2o=ment opportunities generated by the project would reduce
seasonal rura_ underemployment in and around the project areas.  New orchard
development would cre4te job opportunities for 130,000 farm families in the



* 43 -
project areas. The rehabilited orchards would also require additional
laborers. Job opportunities would also be created in the grading, packing and
storage operations of the CFDCs and other distributors.
6.5       Income and Poverty Alleviation.   The project would have a very
substantial impact in increasing the income of project benefiaries, most of
whom presently have incomes below the provincial average. Sichuan and Hubei
average rural per capita incomes are Y338 ($72) and Y467 ($99), respectively,
while the average per capita incomes in the project counties of Sichuan and
Hubei are Y240 ($51) and Y374 ($79), respectively. The poorest project
counties have still lower incomes: the poorest 11 out of 16 Sichuan project
counties have an average per capita income of Y164 ($35); and the 3 poorest out
of 9 Hubei project counties have an average per capita income of Y287 ($61).
In percentage terms, the average per capita incomes in the project counties are
71% and 80% of the respective Sichuan and Hubei provincial averages, and those
of the poorest project counties are 48% and 62% of the respective provincial
averages. Because of its urbanized nature, Chongqing is a seeming exception to
this pattern, since the per capita income in the project counties is Y417
($88), about 23% higher than the Y340 ($72) average of the municipality
(although one of the 5 project counties has per capita income 22% below the
municipal sverage). The higher average per capita income of the Chongqing
project counties is not due to higher agricultural incomes, which are reported
to be substantially below the municipality average, but to their relatively
large urban and industrial concentrations. Thus, in all three jurisdictions,
the project would raise the incomes of some of the poorest farmers.
6.6       The magnitude of the increase of the incomes with the project of the
80,000 farm families in Sichuan project counties, according to farm household
analysis, would be 218% - from an estimated future family income of Yl,858
($394) without the project to Y5,906 ($1,251) with the project. The return per
manday would increase from Y2.9 to Y9.7. Average per capita income in the
project counties would increase from Y372($79) to Y1,181 ($250), an increase of
219%, and would surpass the present provincial average per capita income by
150%. (Annex 3, Table 2.1).
6.7        For the Chongqing project area's 10,000 farm families, the farm
model analysis shows that farm income would increase by 166% with the proiect -
from an estimated future income of Y2,212 ($469) without the project to _. "'R2
($1,246) with the project. The return per manday would increase from Y4.7 to
Y9.8. Average per capita income would increase from Y369 ($78) to Y980 ($207),
a 165% increase and double the municipal average (Annex 3, Table 2.2).
6. 8      Incomes of the 40,000 farm families in the Hubei project counties
would also increase substantially under the project. The farm model analysis
shows that farm income would increase by 150% with the project - from an
estimated future income of Y1,926 ($408) without the project to Y4,857 ($1,029)
with the project. The return per manday would increase from Y2.9 to Y9.1. The
average per capita income would increase from Y385 ($82) to Y9,71 ($206), an
increase of 151% and also double the present average provincial per capita
income (Annex 3, Table 2.3). The greater benefit to farm families in Sichuan
and Chongqing occurs because farmers in these two jurisdictions would obtain an
average 2 mu of new (hilly) land, while in Hubei farmers would have to operate
with just their present holdings.



- 44-.
C. Cost Recover
6.9       Cost recovery for the project would have several major elements.
Almost Y77 million vould be contributed by beneficiaries in the form of cash or
labor and would involve no direct cost to the government. The cost of
extension, research and training (Y23.6 million) would be recovered by county
governments through a special product tax of 5.75% assessed on estimated
(standing) production and through fees for services. Investment in packing and
storage facilities (Y53 million) would be recovered from enterprise profits
taxes. Investment in the establishment and rehabilitation of orchards (about
Y478 million) would be recovered from beneficiaries on a 17-year amortization
schedule at the ABC rate of interest for similar loans. The cost recovery
analysis in Annex 3, Table 6 show that at present tax rates, project charges
would be sufficient to cover project costs with a cost recovery index of 108%.
Rent recovery at full development averages 54%, varying from 40 to 60%
depending on the province. Discounted over the life of the project, the rent
recovery index averages 53% These rates show that the public authorities would
be able to capture somewhat over half of the surplus the farmers would receive
above the minimum retuarn necessary to induce them to participate in the
project.
D. CFDCs Cash Flow
6.10      Cash flow analysis was performed in current prices for a
representative CFDC from each jurisdiction. The major sources of funds are
from the IDA credit, domestic loans and grants, marketing profits, service
fees, loan repayments from farmers, and interest differentials. The main
applications of funds are for CFDC capital investment, orchard establishment
and rehabilitation, technical service fees, and operating expenses for loan
servicing. All CFDCs are required to have and maintain a debt/equity ratio
below 5:1. Assuming that the average cost of capital is 6% for IDA funds
onlent to the CFDCs and 13% fur domestic loans, the CFDCs' cash flow (Changning
County, Sichuan) would yield an annual revenue surplus of Y3.8 million in Year
7 rising to Y7.5 million from Year 15 onward. These funds wo-ald provide
resources for building liquidity to meet lending risks as well as for future
investment. Detailed analysis can be found in Annex 3, Table 5.
E. FLinancial and Egonomic Analyses
Financial Analysis
Production
6.11      The financial analysis of investment in orchard development and
rehabilitation has been carried out in each jurisdiction on a one-hectare model
basis. It is assumed that new orchards will need investment in the following:
(a) land terracing and contouring, (b) land improvement with organic
fertilizer, (c) irrigation facilities and (d) orchard establishment. Input
requirements would be seedlings, organic manure, chemical fertilizers,
pesticides, water and labor. Investment and operating costs are valued at 1988
market prices.  Water cost is the cost of electricity and other inputs to pump
and transfer water for farm use and is estimated to be YO.03/cu meter. Labor,
including family labor, is valued at the market wage rates of Y3.0/manday in
Sichuan and Hubei and Y3.5/manday in Chongqing. The analysis is sumnarized in
Table 6.1 as follows:



- 45 -
Table 6.1   Summary of Financial Analysis Results
Sichuan          Chongqing               Hubei
__...........  ....  ........ .. .. ..   ..................
NPV at 12%    FRR   NPV at 12%     FRR  NPV at 12%      FRR
(1989 Yuan)    %    (1989 Yuan)     %    (1989 Yuan)     %
I. New Orchards
a. Nursery
-Open Field Nursery a/   2,321     15      43,764       45      65,135       59
-Mother Tree Garden     54,298     31      52,278       30      54,298       31
b. Citrus
-Sweet                  41,810     24      43,408       25      43,026       25
-Valencia               38,568     23      40,546       25      39,795       24
-Navel,                 50,275     34      84,820       36      79,288       35
-Mandarin               38,116     23           -        -      39$332       24
'Pomelo                 19,886     18      20,469       19           -        -
c. Other Fruits
-Lychee                 38,002     23           -        -           -        -
-Longan                 30,078     21           -        -           -        -
-Plum                   43,008     27           -               44,224       28
-Loquat                 38,600     24           -        -      39,824       24
-Yellow Peach                -      -      58,065       33      58,685       34
-Pear                   50,275     25                    -      51,117       26
-Kiwi                        -      -           -        -      38,091       21
II. Rehabilitated Orchards
Citrus
-Sweet                  60,203     4b           -        -      32,006       35
-Valencia               38,648     34      51,609       47           -        -
-Navel                  99,730     56           -        -           -        -
Yellow Peach                 -      -      86,368       71            -        -
a/  For Sichuan, FRR is for poly-house nursery.
6.12      Financial analysis for rehabilitated orchards has been carried, out
for sweet orange, Valencia, navel and yellow peach orchards. Investment in
these orchards is mainly in irrigation facilities and production inputs, such
as fertilizers, pesticides and water. Incremental inputs are valued at 1989
prices (para. 5.24). Rehabilitated orchards would start to have incremental
yield from year 2 and would reach full production in year 7. Incremental
production 4ould be 17t/ha, llt/ha, 16t/ha and 15.3t/ha for sweet orange,
Valencia, navel and yellow peaches, respectively.  These output3 are valued at
1988 market prices. The analysis shows that FRRs range from 34 to 71% (Table
6.1).
6.13      As can be seen from the above, adequate financial returns would be
generated from the investments aw4 would provide strong incentives to
participants.  Furthermore, the return would be more than adequate to meet
interest and loan repayment obligations at prevailing ABC terms. Sensitivity



- 46 -
tests have also been carried out to test the effect of price reduction by 25%
and 39% (para. 5.26).   The results of analysis (Annex 3, Table 7.2) shows
that, if the citrus price falls by 25%, the ERR would be in the rage of 17-27%
and if the price falls by 39% the FRR would still lie between 12-22%. Only
pomelo would be caused by the large 39% price decline to have a FRR below 12%,
and in this extreme case, its FRR would be 9%. Price reduction would also not
cause the rehabilitated orchards to become unprofitable, since the FRRs would
still lie between 33-45% for the 25% price reduction and 28-39% for the 39%
one.
Packing Lines and Storage Houses
6.14      Financial analysis has been carried out for 3t/hr and 't/hr packing
lines. Investment costs are the cost of the packing lines and the costs of
plant and warehouse construction, including installation of power and water
facilities. Investment costs also include forklifts, weighing bridges,
platform scales, handcarts and field boxes. Operating costs are the costs of
materials, transport, utilities maintenance, production salaries,
administration and taxes. The analysis shows that, at the citrus wholesale
price of Yl.6/kg, the FRRs of the 3t/hr and 5t/hr packing houses would be 36%
and 50% respectively. Each storage house would have storage space of 500 m2
and would be able to store 123 tons of citrus. At the off-season price of
Y2.2/kg, storage investment would have a FRR of 21%. (Details can be found in
the Project Files).
Economic Analysis
6.15      Economic analysis has been carried out for both new and rehabilitated
orchards (by fruit variety and for the project as a whole exclusive of
marketing services) using constant 1989 border prices. In carrying out the
analysis for the project as a whole, packing and grading costs have been
included in the calculation of farmgate prices. The investment in CFDC packing
and storage facilities has been excluded, since it is analyzed separately.
Investment in research and extension is assumed to have broader benefits to
society than in the project areas; thus, only 50% of this cost is allocated to
the project. All other investment costs (along with physical contigencies)
have been taken into account in estimating the economic costs of the project.
6.16      World Bank price projections of export prices actually realized by
China were used to estimate farmgate economic prices in 1989 constant terms for
traded inputs and outputs. Economic prices for non-traded goods were estimated
using conversion factors (Annex 3, Table 4). These conversion factors were
estimated by means of an analysis of the deviation of social opportunity cost
from the actual financial prices prevailing in the project jurisdictions caused
by taxes and price distortions. All economic values were converted to local
currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of Y4.72 to US$1. Farm and
unskilled labor were valued at Y2.4 per manday in Sichuan and Hubei and
Y2.8/manday in Chongqing, using a conversion factor of 80% of the prevailing
rates of about Y3.0/manday (Sichuan and Hubei) and Y3.5 (Chongqing). Based on
the above, the results of the economic analyses are summarized in Table 6.2.



- 47 -
Table 6.2 Summa y of Economic Analysis
Switching Value at 12%
Base Case   -----------------------
Components               NPV at 12%   ERR %       Benefits     Costs
(Y '000)
1. New Orchards
Citrus
-Sweet Orange           320,323     28.4         -59.1       144.8
-Valencia               213,031     33.8         -64.8       183.9
-Navel                  290,233     39.5         -70.3       236.8
-Mandarin                40,500     25.9         -51.9       108.2
-Pomelo                  13,097     24.6         -48.8        95.5
Total Citrus            877,185     32.0         -63.2       171.2
Other Fruits
-Lorgans                  4,450     22.1         -40.8        68.9
-Lychees                 69,309     29.5         -57.0       132.6
-Loquats                 12,198     22.1         -43.4        76.6
-Yellow Peaches          79,316     44.8         -69.5       227.5
-Pears                    8,!58     26.5         -44.9        81.4
-plums                   12,235     33.4         -65.9       193.2
-Kiwi                    20,697     37.0         -68.4       215.9
Total Other Fruits     207,163     34.2         -55.0       137.2
Total New Orchards    1,084,598     32.1         -62.6       167.5
2. Rehabilitated Orchards
-Sweet Orange            166,491     45.2         -77.0       334.9
-Valencia                 38,578     54.8         -77.8       349.5
-Navel                    22,113     62.7         -84.2       532.4
-Yellow Peaches           10,382     62.2         -77.2       337.8
Total Rehab. Orchards   237,564     48.7         -77.8       349.5
TOTAL PROJECT     1,322,153     34.4         -64.9       184.8
6.17      Economic analyses have been carried out for new and rehabilitated
orchards separately. For the new orchards, analyses were done for varieties of
citrus and kinds of fruit. The results of the analyses show that investment in
new orchards would have a high ERR of about 32% (32% for citrus 34% for other
fruit). Investment in orchard rehabilitation would have even higher rates of
return - averaging 49% and ranging from 45-63%.  The rate of return for the



- 48 -
project as a whole is estimated at 34% and its net present value is estimated
at Y1,322 million using a discount rate of 12%, the estimated opportunity cost
of capital in China (Annex 3, Table 7.1).
Sensitivity Analysis
6.18     Sensitivity anlyses were caerried out to evaluate the effect on the
project ERR of changes in major economic variables such as price and
investment, fertilizer and labor costs. The results show that economic
viability of the project is only marginally sensitive to these variations
(Annex 3, Table 7.3). If the citrus price should fall by 20%, the average
citrus ERR would only fall from 32% to 27%. If prices of other types of fruit
should fall by 20%, the other-fruit ERR would similarly only fall from 34% to
28%. If investment costs should increase by 10%, the project ERR would
decrease only from 34% to 33%, and if fertilizer and labor costs should
increase by 10%, the project ERRs would still be 33% and 34%. The ERR is
somewhat sensitive to a delay in production, however. If production should be
delayed by two years, the project ERR would decrease from 34% to 25%. An
analysis of switching values also shows that the project ERR is highly robust;
a reduction in benefits of 65% or an increased cost of 185t would bring the
project ERR down to 12%.
F. Risks
6.19     The project faces no major organizational or technical risks.  The
risks that do exist are either small initially or have been effectively
minimized. The risk of inadequate management capability in project entities is
minimized because mangement is essentially in place and would be strenghthened
under the project. There are no obvious agronomic risks. Fruit production has
been carried out in this region for thousands of years, and farmers already
have basic knowledge of production techniques. The small risk of frost damage
in the eastern part of Hubei is minimized by the use of sprinkler irrigation
financed under the project. Marketing risk is small since domestic demand is
rising rapidly. The major risks are that price differentials for high-quality
grades may not be as large as expected and that rail transportation may not be
adequate to handle the increased production. The former would be minimized by
the grading system introduced under the project and the autonomy of the CFDCs
to set price differentials. The latter would be minimized by the extension of
the consumption (and shipping) season, due to the project's emphasis on early
and late maturing varieties and on storage facilities, and by setting up a
liaison unit in the provincial Bureaus of Transportation to work closely with
railway planners to effectively manage and get priority for fruit
transportation.



- 49 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1    At negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) adequate funds to procure passenger vehicles needed under the project
would be provided (para. 3.15);
(b) selection of international experts and locations for overseas training
would be based on a review of their terms of reference and a detailed
training program to be prepared by JPMO and submitted to IDA for review
at negotiations (para. 3.27);
(c) the PMOs would maintain the consolidated project accounts for auditing
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of
each financial year (para. 3.33);
(d) all effluents from packing lines would be treated and that the
Provincial Environmental Bureau would clear the final arrangements for
waste disposal, and would set up and maintain a system of monitoring
effluent quality throughout the life of the project (para. 3.34);
(e)   at all times, the FDCs would be operated as financially independent
entities, and managed by experienced and competent staff (para. 4.6);
(f) provincial/municipal, prefecture and county governments and lending
institutions would provide, in a timely fashion, the required
contribution to the counterpart funds (para. 4.13); and
(g) ABC or other financial institutions would make necessary credit for
orchard maintenance available to project beneficiaries after project
completion and until orchards reach full development (para. 4.13).
7.2    During negotiations, understandings have been reached with the
Government that
(a) one CFDC would be selected from each jurisdiction as a joint stock
company and their draft charters would be submitted for IDA's review
(para. 4.5);
(b) CFDCs would maintain a debt-equity ratio of no greater than 5:1,
investments financed under the project should have a financial rate of
return of at least 12%, and subloans to beneficiaries would be at
interest rates no less than ABC charges on subloans for similar
purposes and with similar maturities (para. 4.9); and
(c) the terms of loans between the various lenders and borrowers would be
specified (para. 4.11).
7.3       State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement and
arrangements satisfactory to IDA between the Borrower and Chongqing allowing
the latter to implement the project would be conditions of effectiveness of the
Credit.



50
7.4       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 48.6 million (US$64
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the
People's Republic of China.



- 51-                                         Annex 1
Tabl 1
MID-YANOT  AORICULITDAL OEVELOPMUT PROJECT
Baslc Provinclal and Project Ares Stntlsti.
Sichuan               Chongqing              Hubei
Total   Project        Total Project          Total Project
Iteo/Descriptlon          Unit  Province County   S  MunicipalCounty   X  Province County  U
Total Land Area          1,O0h0  66,66?    2,614  5.0   2,311  1,106  47.9  16,590 2,176  11.7
Total Arabl- Land        1,000Wh    6,841      764 12.0      716   $42  476    $,564   860  10.0
Total Cultivated Land    1,0OOha  11,656    1,429 12.1   1,879   705  51.1   0,680   070  10.1
Irrilated Area           1,000h9   2,780       26   9.6      826   189  42.6   2,835    194  7.7
Waste & Marginal Land 2/ 1,000b   26,667       585  2.0      814   145  46.2   4,3510   404  9.8
Population:
Total                   1,000  108,195  12,643  12.2  14,066  6,641   40.1  49,690  4,66    9.0
Agricultural            1,000   66,889   11,065  12.5  10,642  6,126  46.6  89,06   4,220  10.6
Form Laborers           1,000   44,160   6,280  12.0   S,826  2,076  47.0  18,U8   1,707  12.6
Fmi lie                  1,000   21,60S    2,691  12.4   2,900  1,879  47.6   6,627 1,080 12.0
Townships                  No.      6,572      910  10.7     614   872  45.7   2,075   218  10.8
Adeiniatrative Villasg     No.    76,20   6,692  11.4   8,544  4,019  47.0  82,784  8,875  10.8
Production Area:
Orain Arn              1,000h    9,891    1,106 12.6   1,100   592  51.0   5,092   5009 10.0
Cash Crop Area         1,OOOha    1,548      18?   6.9      76    86  40.2   1,815   120  9.1
Fruit Tree Ara         1,000Gb      171       92 68.6       40    80  75.0         79    22 27.6
Production:
Grain.                 1,000t   89,28    4,861  11.1   5,574  2,921   50.6  28,045  2,062  9.0
Cash CrOpe             1,O0O      0,601      170  2.6      W09   816  62.5   2,824  1,8?7  57.6
Frults                 1,00b        676      19  14.7      1SO    99  66.0        287    s0  86.6
Livestock              1,00Gb    8,155       SW6  11.7     541    92  17.0   8,890   290  6.6
Aquatic Producte       1,00GC        Us       21  18.8      a6      5  14.8       467    s0 10.7
Total VAO:
Grain.                 Yuan Mn  11,666    1,167   9.6      160    98  51.7        741    69  6.0
Cash Crop              Yuan Mn   2,654       194  7.8       16    12  66.7        679    28  4.0
Fruits                 Yuan Mn      404       59 14.0       12      6  66.7   1,908   687  88.5
Forest                 Yuan Mn   1,22        176 11.6       18      6  61.5       648    91  14.2
Livestock              Yuan Mn   7,6C7       640  11.1     177    92  52.0   8,146    81  1.0
Fisheries              Yuan Mn      245       82  18.1      10      6  50.0       597    51  8.6
Average Net Sncme/Cepite Yuan         888      240 71.0      840   417  122.6       467   874 60.1
Notes:
1/ Percentage of total Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing Municipality.
2/ Areas which are presently not used but It can be doveloped for citu. production.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
HIP-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELORIENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Yuan 1000)                                     (USS '000)
Z Total                                        I Total
2 Foveign  base                                   hForeisn bse
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchanige   Costs   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchank   Costs
A. SICA  PRINE
I. NURSERY AID MOTHER TREE GARDENS     1t334.2   1900B.4   24342.6        43       0     292.7   213.6    496.3          43       0
2. ORCHARD ESTABLISHKENT             120.113.9 .90043.6 2109157,6         43      37 25,447.9 19,077.0  44,524.9         4       37
3. ORCHARD REHABILITATION              7t263.4   70259.6  14,522.9        50       3   1539.9  16538*0   34076,9        50       3
4. POST-MARVESTIN6 FACILITIES         124134.6  17,649.0  29,792.6        59       5   2,570.9 3,739.0   6,309.9         59       5
5. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT               49556.3   7Y816.9  12,373.2        63       2    965,3  1.6561   2621.4           63       2
Sub-Total SICHUN PROVINCE               1450402,4 123776*4 269,178.8         46      47  30,805.6 26,223.8 57t029.4         46      47
b. CHON G S  UNICIPALITY
1.  RSERY AND MOTHER TREE GARDENS     1.504.1  1195.2  2,699.4           44       0     318,7   253.2      571.9       44        0
2. ORCHARD ESTABLISHMENT              46,614.5  36,852.2  83.466.7        44      15   9P875.9  7,907.7  17,683.6        44      15
3, ORCHARD REHABILITATION              34077.7  4,685*2  7,762,9          60       1    652.0    M.6   1,644.7           60       1
4. POST-HARESTING FACILITIES           6,078,0  5,403.8  1It481.8         47       2   1,287,7  1,144.9  2,432.6         47       2
5. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT               2,165,9   2i762.1   4.927.9        56       1    458.9   585.2  1,044.0           56       1
Sub-Total CHONGIN6 flUINICIPALITY        59,440.0 50,898.6 110#338,7         46      19  129593.2 10,783.6  23t376.8        46      19
C. NUDEI PRWINCE
1. NURSERY MND MOTHER TREE 6ARDENS    2,SoI.3   2,030.4   4,591.7         44       1    542.7    430.2    972.6          44       1
2. ORCHD ESTABLISHMENT                73,144.7  58,402.9 131,547.6        44      23  15,496.8 12,373.5  27,870.3        44      23
3, ORHOD REHABILITATION               149447,1  200275.3  349722.5        58       6   3,060.8  4.295,6   74356.5        58       6
4. POST-HARUESTING FACILITIFS          6,797.4  6,133.4  12,930.8         47       2   1440.1  1299.4  2,739.6          47       2
5, INSTITUTIONAL SUPIST                3,207.8  39450.9  6t658.8          52       1    679.6   731.1   1,410.8          52        1
Sub-Total HUBI PROINCE                  100,158.4  90.292.9 190,451.3        47      33  21,220.0 19,129.8  40,349.9        47      33
Total BASELINE COSTS                      305,000.9 2649967.9 569p968.8        46     100  644618.8 56,137.3 120,756.1        46     100
Phsical Contingencies                    69560.8  7,403.4  13v964.1         53       2   1,390.0  1t568,5   22958.5        53       2
Prire Continge.cies                     71,701.4  629555.1 134,256.5        47      24   7,074*9  6,081.9  13s156.8        46      11
Total PRO8ECT COSTS                       383,263.1 334,926.4 718,189.5        47     126  734083.7 63,787.7 136,871.4        47      113
-----------------------e------------------2-------.---==---------------------=90--------------------------------------06:----------
March 29 1990 12:06



NID-TMITZE AORICILUMLA  DELa    T PROIECI
PMOECT COST SUIMT
(Yuan '000)                                   (USs '000)
2 Total                                     I Total
Foreign   ase                              Z Forien kse
Local   Foreign  Total   Exchae   Costs   Local  Foreign  Total  Excne   Costs
==5                 ==                 =3  =lS =                    2= 2==
A. SICHM PROVINCE
1. IIU15MR  AND NOTHER tREE 6INS     1t334.2   100.4   29342.4         43      1    292.7   213.4   496.3          43       1
2. RCHOMD ESTABLISHKENT            120,113.9 90043.6 210t157.6         43      78 25t447.9 19077.0 44i524.9        43      78
3. ORCHDRD REHAJILITATIIN            7t263.4  7,259.6  14,522.9        50      5   1,539.9 1I539.0 3,076.9         50       5
4. POST-HARVESTING FACILITIES       12,134*6 17,649.0 29#7M2.6         59      11  2,570.9 3,739.0  6,309.9        59      11
5. INSTIIUTIONAL SUPPMRT             4,556.3  7,916.9  1273.2          63      5    965.3  1,656.1 2.6214          63       5 
Sub-Total SIMUAN PROVINCE             145,402.4 1239776.4 269I178.8       46    100 30,905.6 26,223.0 57,029t4        46    100
Total BASELINE COSTS                    145,402,4 123,776.4 269#178sO       46    100 30,805.6 26,223.9 57,029.4        46    100
Physical Contingenries                 3P396,9  3,'22.0  7p11B.9         52      3    719.7   798.6  1,508.2         52       3
Price Contin iensie                   35,418.9 29,400.3 64v819,3         45     24  3,506.9  2,855d1  6v361,9        45      11
Total PROJECt COSTS                     194,218.3 15699.9 341t117.1         46    127 35,032.0 29t967,5 64"95           46    114
March 2. 1990 1114



CHINA
NIS-YANTZE A6RICtIATIIAL DEVELWPENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST Smy
(Yuan '000)                                  (05$ '000)
Z Total                                     I TOt,
I oreign oe                                 Z  Foreign ks
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchanmu   Costs   local  Foreign  Total  Exebmie  Costs
A. CINOGIII NUNICIPALITY
1. N11URE  AIND NOTMER TREE 1RENS   15Il.04.1  1,195.2  2,699,4      44       2    318.7   253.2   571.9          44       2
2. ORCHAMD ESTABLISIHENT           46U614,5 36,852.2 83466.7         44      76  9M875.9  7,807.7 1783M6          44      76
3, DR1HtUR RERAIIILITATION          3077,7 4685.2  7,762.9           60       7    652.0   M.6  1,644.7           60       7
4. PMST-'ARUESTING FACILITIES       6.078.0 5,403.0  11,481,8         47     10  192877  tl44,9  2t432*6         47      10
5, INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT            2.165.B  2p762,1  4,927.9        56       4    458.9   585.2 1.044,0          56       4
Sub-Total COAII3NG NUNICIPALITY       59,440.0 50,898,6 110,338.7        46    100  12,593.2 10M783.6 23M376,8       46    t0
Total BASELiNE COSTS                    59p440,0 508M8, 6 110,338,7       46    100 129593.2 10783.6 23M376.8         46    kt
Flisical Continsencies                 1,043,4  W152.8  2M196#3         52      2    221.1   244.2   465.3           52      2
Priee Continrencies                   12,573.4 11,053,7 23t627.1        47     21   1t228,7  1,068,8 2297.5          47     1o
Total PROJECT COSTS                     734056,9 63,105.1 136,162.0        46    123 146043*0 120906h6 26U139.6        46    112
-   ---  -------     -- ------ -- ---.------ --- -
Narh 2. 1990  12:32



- 55 -
Annex 2
Table 1.4
CNA
PRLIMT  CWT S _AT
(YVu  O0)                                    (Up '000)
Y Totl                                      I Total
I Foinim  km                               I Fo"   kwe
Local   Foreib   Toa    bElui     Cos   Lal  For"    Total  bhmg   Cast
*. NM  PUVi
1. INERV AN lOMD TnE _!S    2561.3  2,030.4  W4 .                     44       2    542.7   430.2   972.8          44      2
2. UlCIN  ESTLIENT                  73,144.7 58#402.* 131i547.6        44     6  15e96.8 12,373.5 V2870*3          44     69
3. ORCIR RSMILUTAINI                14447.1 20275.3 3472.5             58     18  3,060.8 4#295.6 7,35.5          58      18
4. POBT-AIES    FACILITIES           6.797.4  6,133*4  U29308          47      7  1W440W1  l2994  2739             47      7
5. ISm W   SPPRT                     3M207.8  3,4509  6,658*8          52      3    679.6  M711  1,410.8           52      3
STotal HMEt PROINCE                   100,158.4 90f29 190.451.3          47    100 21e220.0 19P129.8 40349.9          47    100
Totl 11a1  COSTS                        100,158.4 90t292.9 190,1.3         47    10  21,220.0 19,12.8 40,349.9         47    100
Physical CAntMces                      2W120.4  2,28.5  4648*9           84      2    449*2   S35.J   984*9          54      2
Price Canriwin                        23,709.1  22.101.1  45,810.2       48     24  24339.4 2,159.1  49497.4         48     11
Total PRJECT COSTS                      125,87.9 114w922.5 240910.4        48    126 24i006A 21,823.6 45t832#2         4      114
Nlat  2. 1990 12U12



-56-                                              Annex 2
iIS*1r5   .IW                  pw                           Table 2. 1
Cmi VIM~                                     mi   ~
s_ro                         s                                     s _r
UN Pm- fttwws                          tsao)  m.s  to,1   t.ei n   Costs       . 1001   1791    O1tA.   (*15'  hiI
2. MI660 OSTS
6. 2.35   e(0itIU                         2.-430.8 1         :8.9129MW            23   066.3 1           354 ?4wt    3
S. Cml 350w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1-3.                          .,      3     .21       'Y.
ftw 24mm                                19.3.  20,65.  3.,              35A.  9  S3  0'1.4  ,476.6   l.*1.         31 
14.uman 46*e                            20.4*4.  6,493.  22.)43.5                0  I   4.  =.5.        MA7.'       1 
c. m.     K W   0    toe                     -sto.0  5.652.  13.9's1.2     01           2,727.5  1,24.   :,T .         'i
F. oiUua Vl k
Vol".Mo.)                                3.2.34  31)34V.  12W            is      i  £.90.2  'O49 0.2  :.tto
huatt  wi,                                 U3.02.    140 .02. WN'u   1,147.5                       5.4274 
hao-toO  l)  6.ti.w WA,47      .23. 75.212,5                                :      :4  22,oto.7  0...  16.90.          '      1
2'nultzu   usm                             8443.  t4,090.9 X9.14.       t6            IS.4 4.17.0 54 2.00.9         u
'05.)        0.4.?       8             3.  3.6 8.        3..       143
M-'t*U   l 443 36694   hOC335?i 40400 it36. 2    at 3.0,                    tO     '   0.3  21.009. -;W-.            J%
F. ?rwlu Io heat .     nu
goat.                                     020.0  2.000.2  I'v.?7.       M6      I3   :o.5   22.0.2                  3.1 u 
j3tpJI iMUIo    oht                        0,76.5  2447   3124567         1           2.0J.  o.:04       !M4.        %
1. am'O21uw     P,iti~4o.
tqw  tolmw  cm                   M.2~~~144 19.d46.2  20.43.4      404           2721143.1 41.20.0  VN4I.     04     -
40,1:;:., m                                   2.,    30.2%.  13432.5      92           WWI 3.6    .4  :.0h           !3 
ti.*,U   F.IsAuo aW  gott4517.0  19,78.  5".39                              46     U     233.1 30.2744  14.30.         4      4
fdd~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :4A   PM n 0  M  s
4. nor 
10511 468350w                                23.2     5.4  :, .3    -             *.   o.   n0.            1..      96       0
rim t _20"                                 M 1    11.  -5.2  43,.       n       I 2639.4 0.          10.07.2       n      Is
Oa.ma2 5Jj 1                             09,243,       V. 69.43,           .      62.0.                597.          -      2
1         iCST                           2    .24  97 ,.24 0,6.y          44       9 13.4 t5.) 42M7.  4.              4
OltuwLC   etog                              6.56 41t..   U.M.0              5       2t  2.03. l * .53..  :,404.7      n       2
Pow  C,awau                                .4520.3  3719.2 40.1 4         43    24     1q.020.? 23427.1  1.4.0      4
C3.  Tim    Ste1
ca  of                                    t2". SWt 1441A                  *t= :.6     t*D.  t:MA  .*  :wt .4        't
Foss             amtl                    2.0.     *.I 3.249)              -      *    433.5 4     .4   Wu.I        .5 
L    0.uw                               MM_               -942. t                   3,729h:.3        3,729.3       n
hatuOol          f 0-0.r:20s1*8   964.    .223   43.?                    5:      4  0,162    :1s.o  4-.19.          e 
Fo4z0                                    1 _ .467   251.2 26.63......           . 9  1  :-6.  5 .44   5.194.?      0:
hotzagv                                 3,42.2       .30.1444,5.        I2          t24.a 519669,2.4               9
S*'Toed   F405.)iu  15FItM407.9A  40,72.  M9 .                             94      22     30. 23,75.   0,76.         '4      2a
bw           bt^fr                         4 t##m4  :&Met  t4.53# F&/.zF3 v         I2A.1:              .* 4vM3 U             r
C. 24 373a I3"
C*s 49         M                          .4424   2 t.s3.S  ,43 .9       04      0    10.0   25.0    150¢.0@       0t      0
mm       2320120                          72%#.4  1.-5.5           ,6.9    4            3* 54  "M.0 3th "             46     U
-- Saw. Cst4o        4                     6,393.9           6g.323-.,          *  1  1,1.7   :4.   2,537.             -      o
Vm;:ml Sao     5                           174.0    306.7     3 29.7     t       O4  0   76     24.7 Z ;.4         10       0
r.45   ~                                35.466.5 260,467.9  69.0l64      06.m nw.2l  51415t 3iO.l         .2       46     I
f _i Sa m                                  640.8  7,46.4  2306.            53      3      *.950.54t   2,3            53       1
ftI ts                     nt C3504      72.6.  u23 .2235111              .7     24  7,47.9  sn.r1    2 0           46      U
fetal 32W      m -a .23l 3514.l0723,3                                          47    .3  72.43.?43.20.72364J1       *4 07       22
. ~~---  m - - -. -



- 57 -
uM440  iw.nv  KIIt Pawt                                            Annex 2
zn ea)                                         Table 2.2
*am In ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       mir
am im- au m                Now             9459011 vqwotm
amm   11T6.IMMn umAzum                  rgtuuu    umm    foual 
-        m    ~~~~~~~~olmoow                          ee-           .-
A.  136313931064                                                                                                           .0    3.
1.  t1, ht
*. I_  t ~    ~      ~      ~      12.              - -ia. -                              ,ui        ea*.o *.ao 10u.o
IalUm        ,                                               -.       -, U.  .4                   3W .4 14".    1.0  81.3
.Ta    66.1 VMS                                t1.4      14,M4               U              .             -.  34447.9   1.0 1.49.4
C. Bous                                                   1611.6          ELI                             *    49.4   1.0  aJ4u.
L bwunll
L46 Pi. aM Is                                   -       00.2          144I                -            *      3.7   1.01.3114
p    Ns htmal,                              907U        2,4.1                            -                  3773.3   1.0  3.7
Oro " Fut4aue                                36.0      12,329.3        711.0              -2*11.3   0.O   U.'
s*-ftal hMuls                                  943.3     3S69.0         20U6.               3- 0-                  4    3.3 1.294.
1. muDS AO  13T
Imsam   _mo,m                               21.6      S4934A          *.221.              -            -     47n.&   1.09o 24
461i,twot [muma                               443       1.34.0          336.3-   1.469.?   1.0   73.1
poot4psW l an       t                           -            -                       94-9.7            -        .?   1.0  049
_     to_~                                      -            -             --                     t.9.1   1,19".1   1.0   60.0
Eoaam   E _zimu                                       -         -          -              -                           1.0  340.2
t*.totliIB   a11?23.                                      49.           4.111           .49          44024   73,174.3   1.0 3.aU,
r. 96o hots
wid40                                                  6 662          1W4            34*3          .L.   U364               0.0o
has                                            -             -3- 1#4.6                                 -   1174.4   04    0.4
1*-Tt  vix          Wk                                    6.46.2          .614          .34          Zea.1      1u .0mo   0.e    0.0
6. Fm.tslt±g  su P.oa
ha,-bu                                       7         9.11            36.2               -10014.0   0.0    o.0
Pu106                                        12.9                                         -            -          X.t   0.    6.0
-towr uu, a  Ptatm                             UOJ           m.IM.        3a4  0                                   9   0.0    0.0
:1 Tus3a  I 161gR_ i  sa
ftneu                                          -             -             -.66.2 i                        ne Mt   0.0    o.0
fmul-il losoas.e                                             -             -              -         1I.      36.1 L  0.0    0.0
-toul   *           I TOO"u    AA                 -                           -              -       24.3   2.34J   0.0    0.0
1.LiU
uLeo                                         S0          A 18W3.4     1-74.0              *            -    201.3   0.0    0.0
?a Id                                          60d4 L8J4                1,674.0              -            -  42te.         0.0    0.0
eta            CuS 11i.2                                   1641.1.2       11904.9        .-27.1        2M.  =.WU.:   1.1 699a0.4
it.   -      e
6. UAIUI
FM Zwo1                                     U04.8       10.           4t4                -             - .,417.9    0   *2.'
Osoas tro    a                               3.3       7.N&           6.0                -            -   6.*66    3.0    U.:
ri- a    8                                    068.       3.70,           774.n -                         .  1.4   .o   82.,
3.  f ltaa  - PuI*
Foru'3i1                                    47.6       o?61.0       1tJ3.0               .                 0.3434   0,      0.0
Pu9 _                                       91.9      109.             211.6                              13,6.9   0.3    0.0
-        f   Ua w  ad __1, .61                32.1      21.03. .o-  -       .4                                   ' .   0.0    0.0
C. tnw  m
cut at pqws Mat                              3.8        11.4            ".4                                  912.8   1.0    4.6
hitol 13813an                                  1.8         119.4          94.4              -            -      334    1.40   4.6
8. Lop                                          0.       011.2               -              .                 8-56.1   0.0    1.0
CWlt*4                                               , * *5                                    .     1         .0    0.0
tr             53 M7.A                                      43W.074        21.               1               -  7..3   0.3  3$
tdoal mm=  M                                    2,3         230,lVA7       34M,19         29,102.4      12,37342 210973.1   :4 .1,t
99.18  costamm                                  6.4        1M,09.          413.         3.3134          160.    7,338.9   04    0.4
Pso.                                        *e.omla  34  17,7.4       3,702t                          s       t  .0 3,60 31334493  419
Ft=1 669  gin                                  2,9.8       WO3,18.        14.00.         344LS        33,14.  36~3.I   N2.0 3.39
uwpaw mb_.2                                         31.            3.10.1        341A          8,93.  1t69.,   2.3  2.4t0
_n ..1981   3 3                                                                      _
PodsblM                                        2Ut.  IVAM4                 #AO-$         Ime           60U   ltuau   WA 64O



- 58 -
Annex 2
Table Z.?
t. ~       ~            ~
A. FTA kmatM                                   v&.34 En2
-mr *8                                                                            C93n,er
-               -3 l           -r          -n    vs r-s
I.  D13iT  3311
*. 1.md k-na                                                        -             -86                                   3t*36-1.)   0.0    0.0
*. Cmvl 861s
9441.1"                                                   -                                3,092.5       :.412.)   540.e   5.0    7
ifltin   Us                                        -       112.t            110.2               -                  1,192.3   5.0   59.0
s.*Ta    Cvil    1                                    - -d1412.1               Il0.2          M092.S        2,412.1   6.06.9   1.0  334.8
C. 306-                                                       2J.30                                                    .3--3.    5.0  116.5
D.  att,nd s
LaId PM. atepIzs                                92.0       9281.3            06.8               -                  0890.9   5.0  449.0
Pl&v9v1 Oatfols                                .71.S          03.5              --   I474.a   S.0   73.7
3,1.0  fwtIiu,                                  39.0      3I40.0            340.0               -1359.0   0.0    0.0
ST*tl tmona).                                     903.1      1244.7            946.8                                 14,314.6   1.7   22.6
C. Niamey Ue 4111131
IZtintae bagmI                                 418.1      to.8.$          1-8.7                 -             -  20.640.?   5.0 1,032.0
46nultuug fm_st                                 14.2         539.5              -               -             -      S51.7   5.0   21.7
Poot-8    ta EC     it                             *-                                      1.4.9              -   1,468.9   S.0   73.4
gn , _a  -*                                        -         -                                            59.6       599.6   5.0   30.0
xtirw         _ Eam   -t                                                                                   215.0     215.9   1.0   10.0
SO-Total 34T          mm                          432.3      180A            1t89.7          1,46.9          815.6  2341.9   S.0 1173.9
*6uitIeO                                      -       5,479.6          ¶59.6          3.1-2.6         751.8  10,100.4   0.0    0.0
=.O-      VEcla d bats                                -       5o479.6          ¶59.6         1,372.6        725.6  10103.4   0.0    0.0
9. fortiltuw  a  P wtia
f ttiftur                                      186.4       3.7ihO               -               -                  3,-94.    0.0    0.0
S--total Fritlauo 4  P.0tnd                       180.6       3.190.0              -                                  3,904.6   0.0    0.0
. t,anta I teftvul £MstiM
'rani,6                                           -                                             -         -564       1563    0.0    0.0
r 4ca Aouust56e                                      --                                         -         192.3      192.3   0.0  o.0
Sa-toul traa,,os S P.val rcd       s                                -              -               -          48.6      94.6   0.0    o.o
246.7      t7h91.6         1,142.6                                 19-MO.?   0.0    0.0
Sub-Tot  LAM                                      246.7      17.9914.         1142.4               -             -  19380.1   0.0    0.0
totl 1r T16  c5m                                   1..?         62$,12.7        142.=8          e.30.2        4.929   81,604.2   2.6 2.14L I
II. fft 13MM
Fin Towlut                                     13.9         398.1           S.7                                     493.7   5.0   24.7
onw.c Fo Isals                                19.:2      2:811.6           181.0               -                  3-111.    0.0    0.0
Sub4stal SrAIl                                   1L3.0       3-201.7          270.1                      -           3,685.4   0.7   24.1
8. FTW tIIU  W4 PeUtIid
Vntifluv                                      28.6        3.482.9        2,463.8                             -   6.30        °-°.0    0.0
PvWi                                          17.4        8M73.2           31.2               .-          -       9246.8   8.0    0.0
S-Toutal  otwlar ad htluOo                       ¶57.0      12M.1           2,17.1                              -  IS15,2.1   0.0    0.0
C.  L31t1  VAT6
cast ot P,su V"                                20.5         367.1           82.3               -              -     410.0   1.0    3.5
Sub-Totl 13T3    11  tI3                          20.5         367.1           a2.3               -                    410.0   5.0   23.5
L ;.r                                            39.1         s.:          -.2    -                             -   5.945.    0.0    0.0
C.    3  ctal                                        -                                       3.161.6             -   3,161.6   0.0    0.0
To   111111 1T1 1c188.7                                        a24I.M.0         3,118.1         3.161.6             -    ,714.4   0.2   48.2
Ttr       33 com                                    2,699.4      9,46.7          7.762.9        11,481.8       4427.W.9             2.0 2.196.)
fhIl Cmt6oa.                                        61.1       1.               U9.1            220.1          161.4   :.193    0.0    0.0
mu61  CatIura                                      *20.3      2083167.        1,207.7            43.1         539.3  23,627.1    16  374.1
totdal "   T 9m                                     3.31t.2        ,8.5w         0 10.7         1265.0         5.m.6 212U62.0   1.9 2.V704
r         _l 1[34.9                                           46 806.)        5,463.3         6-. a          3,116.9  03.108.1   2.1 1,45.3
Raid 2. 19O  12U2



- 59 -
Annex 2
am                                       Table 2.4
NI9XMiLi   ono w
tit  t as Piit t      W
a  m   mm    uoi   PuiWiiiS NUhJU
NM   atiatim               Ut6TtM  rELm V1             t09             l   I  6011
*. Lt ead  tt"at*                                                              -           404              -      62.    0.0    0.0
*. ctni 40*
hll01a                                                        -              *         * 342.2      Jt.t4   7*134   1.0  VWh7
Imaos   Ms                                       .         1.1           110.0              .2,5.3   5.0  3264
1t.ciavil Ws itI 'M.                                                        710.0        4,342.2       3593    10451.4   5.0  522.9
t. b68                                                     5.-55S2,4           -                                 1S..    1.0  23.6
C. kmana0
UN 94. samsts                                29.        13.79-                      -                     - 444.6   5.0  '02.
Plait   IAtuls                               MA          3343.2              -              -             -   4.19.0   1.0  M.09
0,11  f.tthlus,                              305.0       5,79.0        2-.934               - -043.4   0.0    0.0
5.46-foul Stwu I.                             1,209.7     ::2294.9         939.4               -            -  2 t749.0  -.S4  91.4
Im ta       _ it                               .1      349237.3       15.209t               --                 ,261.5   5.0 2,3113.
atw   t t                                     2S.2        04.4           94.5               -            * t.1   5.0  t9.3
PIaSLOnWISI      mt-                                          --                      2.9*1.2            -   2942   5.0  t41.3
b f_lset                                         -                           -                        441       440     5.to   33.4
E    -mz       t                                -             -             -                          24.4     724.4   1.0   36.2
(S-tald 4A3Mi IS  tJHT                          790.3     35,S.7         36,207.7        21.2           W2.M   544.3   1.0  a2.S.1
F. wuht" VA NM
1119111.                                        -         ,S070.8 a       92.6        2,334.1         4"a a    a .3   0.0    0.0
544o4u1 1,1. a d                                   -       5,01000.        6 2.A         2.134.I         424.0   0.56.3   0.0    0.0
0. FptIlnr a Puhn
Fatltal                                      30.2          Y2.6                             *            -   6,9        0.0    0.0
3,btotul FVui a d P1        4WN                 07.2      m632.6               -                                 679-.  0-.       0.0
it. tfll*IM    T  mztl *0346
T.- oww-                                                     -             -                        14091.1    W9..   0.0    0.0
WaedmclAaltS                                                                                          190.3    392.3   0.0    0.0
$.*-taal   m         I TEcwue    -tus ,                                         -                      1 02.3  I3M.3   0.0    0.0
3. L_l
ia.,                             1~~~~~~~~~~~35.5  21.62.0  3,429.3                           -   9026 0.@    4.0
1,Ttal LM                                        .35.     25;.62.    ~ 3,429.3                                  29,92.0   0.0    0.0
- t   t_   |  r t  4                  -~~~~~~~~7~                                                ;      -  -  - so  to. oo oo
Ttal nosmis  mu272.                                         1244           24,019.0        z.o           6.0.   4.10.0   3.1 4,535.
R1. tm cmu
sM tsIm                                      24.2      2S.2             39.3                             -     94.A   o.0   49.9
him, Fwtahu,                                220.1       5.140.S         642.7             4. 6004.0   0.0    0.0
20-Tota mUI9u                                  24.7I      5,72.0         tmm46                               - 7,.oa-    4o.1   49.9
n . Fe,tosnv -  Pistcit
Frtw                                        51.9        4,700.4       6.*9U.               *                t2s232r2   0.0    0.0
o             "wn                           4210.9     t2,137.6       2.210*                             -  14,57.3   0.0    0.0
1.d6-tota Fatli  ad Foiticia                   44.0      H36.01,         9,196.6                           -:6.909.4   0.0    0.0
C. rITgs NM
cm  of Pea   eat                             49.4        M70.9          4.9  a*                               23 1.1   o.0   64.1
htal IRRINTION gals                            T. 4         71.9*          472.9a                    -        -;.-M.    5.0  *64.1
L Lai                                         400.1       5.0            9U3                  -            - 16,01.4   0.0    0.0
. (t   CUtl                                                     - *                     2*636.             -   Z2,36.8   4.0    0.0
Ida           Cat mu                            1404         2901.2        101034S          2636t              -  44410.5   0.3  113.9
Tau  IIIELIN cum                                 4591.7    I3X3347.6         3412.5         t2,930.8      6..   390.451.3   2.4 4.66.9
F_tal fatliu t                                   ".4        3,4.9            03.3           365.4         24.2  4h4dW    0.0    0.0
Wm  ct14 1as                                     9..       3.602.2         6,916.7        1,144.2       1,017.7  9.010,2   2.0  433.7
ToW  PRW cm                                      5.4079      170,214.6       422-=03         4.40.4       71   240.           2.3 5.12.6
F_        _ 1                                  2.562.0     19.m.o         25,359.         699051        4,163.4  U4422.i   2. 3019.4
I2N 3 n2ot2



NiJ-YANOTZE ASRICOltWL DEUELUN  MRECT
ProiJet Comwots bit Tear
Totals Itluwind CotiMmcies                         Ttls forluldiin     i   n
(Yuan '000)                                          (999 1000)
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994   Total              19902 9  19      193    1994   Totl
______--                    22222    2          2           =w .    22              _          =2=_
A. SICNIAN PRWINCE
1. NURSERY MD NOIMER TREE 6ARUENS    1,579.0    630.7    223.6    326.1    38.4  2.7978    322.3   120.1    41.4    $P.3     7.0    50.1
2. ORCWiRD ESTALISHIENT           42.596.3 64t235.? 56,4330  73603.7 36,250.1 273118.8  0.6934 129235.4 10.450.6 1343825 6,590.9 51,352.5
3. ORCHA  RWEIITATION             13171.9    662.5    876.4    991.1 1024.1  16437.9  266.1   126.2   162.7   163.6   IU.2  3.327,0
4. POST4AWESTING FACILITIES       21.023.1  11.692.3  1.t73.2       -       - 34,58.6  4.290.4 2,227.1   346.9         -       -  6864.4
5. INSTITUTIONAL SLPPT            10,909  2327.3    533.1    171.9    31.9  13.974.0  2i226.5   443.3    9.7    31.2         5.S  2,3.6
Sub-Total SICHAW POINCE              89r280,2 79,.544 59t941.4 75,002.6 37,344.5 3419117.1  18.220.4 15d152.1 11,100.3 13,636.0 679.9  648"9.5
3. DMUIOII MNOICIPALITY
1. NURSERY AND MOTHER TREE GARKNS    1t176.2    662,3    39.4    i93,4   849#9  3,381.2    240.0   12A.1    74.0    53.3   i54.5    641.0
2. ORCHMR ESTA8LISIElNT           23,932.4 25,160.9 29.675,2 12,092.3 14t52e.6 105,389.5  484.2 4M,95 5,495*4 2,1"86 2,641.6  20.012.3
3. OR D 1ABILITATION               5,683.4    744.3    824,0    908.3   94J.7  9,109.7  1.159.?   141.8   152.6   165.2   172.7  1,79.
4. POST-IARESTINB FACILITIES      11,207.3  1U445.6        -        -       - 12,653.0  2,287.2   275.4        -       -       -  2,562.6
S. INSTITVTIONA1 SUPPmRm           3.999.3  1,408.1    94.9    107.3    30.9  5,620.6    813*7   268.2    17.6    19*5       5.6  1t124.7
Sub-Total CHONING MUNICIPALITY       45,986.8 29o421*2 30,993.5 13,401*4 16,359.1 136,162.0  9,385.1 5,604.0 5,739.5 2,436.6  2,974.4 26,139.6
C. HIlEI PROVINCE
_ _ __ ___ _
1. IURY AND MOTHER TREE OARIS      2,351.5    835.2    625.7    606.9 1,260.3  5,679.5    479.9   159.1   115.9   110.3   229.2  1,094*3
2. IiCHRIR ESTA0115IIEINT         27,337,5 41,362.0 419313.9 31,018.9 29t242.3 170,274.6  5,579.1 77978.5 7,650.7 5W63     5,316.8 32,064.9
3. ORCHRII REWARILITATION         13941.8 16,632,3  2,96148  3,942#4 S,052.1 42P530#3  2,845*3 39168.0   548.5   716.0   919.6  8,19742
4. POST-HARESTING FACILITIES      12,127.3  2,313.0        -        -       - 14440.4  2,475.0   440.6         -       -       -  2,915.5
5. INSTITUTIOL SUPPORT             3.742,2  2,190.9  14201.6    130.9   100.1  71995.7    763.7   417.3   337.3    23.9    18.2  16560#4
Sub-Total "Mtfl PROJINCE             59,500.4 63o33.33 46723.0 35,699.9 35,654.9 240,910.4  129142.9 12063.5 8,652.4 6,490.7 6,402.7 45.932,2
-----  ----  ----   ---  -  ---------- ------------ -----                                                    O
Total PROJECT COSTS                   194,767.3 172.302.9 137,658.0 124,102.9 89,358.4 71.189.5 39,746,4 32.819.6 25,492.2 226564.2 I16247,0 136.8714  N
Ha________ _________ __._______ _________ __________ _____h___ _________ 2____---   -    ---1
Hatch 2i 1990 12:06



-61-
Anrmex 2
Table 4
9-YUTU3.1O SUARS4T IIIIJIf
C_9 ..*Imt  f., Te.eIe mm T1..   A.Id~
T.1    Ta1              total   ttal              *n l    *ote
Uhl        U0011,1  Ces" (7         wlt  Cas" (7             unit  COs"  7
1. D1111111 aCm
A. nfwmRnrmL Inw  -.1
a.        ie
lbammua (80 Cer)              P                4     95.8                  2    47.4                     47*.4
Colts    r ca (80 0" )        P                6    149.8                  2    47.4                4    94.4
eubWl~ 1rAwe   _ tVAINW                          to  2so..                   4    04.*   148.2
S. PwT-rSUSID
Treateaa m (1 Uos                                    69.5                 2    46.0                2    48.0
SW*.mtt. (2I beo)             r               2      47.0                 1    Ul.S                I    58.5
?1_ass|    cm (00.)          uP_..            a 8    m.                   a    ".5                      99.8
b-Toteal FWUv4UIIS                               7     21U.0                0   1.0                       J 167.0
8. 1100
Virus bdeI.q (O0 0S)        Porem            2      99.5                 1    49.7                t    49.7
ivitrIti (do Owe)            P*resm           2      78.4                 2    78.4                2    78.4
P *t S D1e_. C..l            Por              a      78.4                 1    80.7                1    as.7
Irri lgat  (80 0Ui)          Por              2      47.4                 1    80.7                1    0.7
_r-St Substaces (s0o Da")    Posm                    81.s8                     80.7                1     o0.7
1-Ttal _11                                       10    351.0                 e   9t4.2                *   814.2
4. 81IJ !3W
Stady Tm,                    pope"            10    88.0                      123.9                S   177.0
;ot-Tlt Sum  ToUm                                10    WSl.0                a   ia.0                 *   ar.g
-ToasW   D         L 1RU=                               MO14.S                     6.9                       01.8
D. _n10c  n1318640
1Xr.                                          a 2    42.0                U     12.9               1s  314.7
NM orhrd                    Course         174      S17.4               99    00.8               00   J6.1
bbabIIlt.tl..                Ceuro.          is      68.0                40   WU.S                1s    1.7
&wooed "Dump-Tre"            Caro.            4      21.0                to    1.0                so    87.7
obrimolotp                  Cm..             4      165.4               21    U.2                 a      l.2
A..-9 * Ft....e               Cauro.          4      185.4               16     9.4                7     4.0
Dab-Totl OiUC 184                                me      974.2              210   1ta.8              le    854.4
c. ToMMlL AM MR4/
Pat *brroaUag lattams        i*ta,-NO          1.0    64.2              1.0    62.8                1    62.8
0triton                       i _              0.7    10.8              0.7    87.4              0.7    87.4
viru Iad.'Is 01D-.sSt                          1.0    68.0              1.0    34.0                1    34.0
Irriatlos 10-i1                     l          0.8    22.0              0.8    21.4              0.8    n.4
Sub-Tetal 1O6LZa                                    8.0   199.0             8.0   183.1                8   18.1
MSI87MM -4/
T  o1al8106 CM$                                             2.7                       920.2                   1240.0
TOe                                                         220.7                     920.2                   tlUO.J
____e_d_as lUID/intl.for too. rem ad board. ____/peroms _.__
*at.rumstImt 1ifar, VW 41M for , rla  irftre.
rlr care. to   do anr d11_   said 0/ay *atery.  anl es *11t1
he S.". 84. M s4ad    by 91Iu _o.atss ed WA,1e, r.**OOIvOty.



- 62 -
labI. C.1
CHINA
MIO-YANOTZE MRICULTURAL ODEELOPMENT PROJECT
Procur~ment List of Equipment, Material and Supplies
Unit Cost        Quantity by Province         Total  Procurement
Item             Unit             Sichuan Chongqing  oubel   Total   Coat       method
(USI)                                     (US8'000)
Fertilizer and Pettides               (
-Urea                         Ton        196   8,600   1,900   2,900   6,400   1,068             ICe
-Compound FertilIIer          Ton        807  12,000   6,000  12,900  81,600   9,70a             ICB
-pesticides                   Ton    10,000       150     90       100      846   8,798         tCB
Vehicles and Boats
-Truck (1-1.75t)              m4.    17,000        Go     127       60      258   4,801          ICB
-Truck 5-5.St                 No.    85,000        66       8       8o       08   8,256          ICB
-Monorail &  Boat                                                             0      750         ICB
Steel Products
-Steel Line                   Ton        886      550     800   2,000   2,860        055         IC8
-Steel Shlet                  Ton        44S   1,500   1,400   2,000   4,900   2,181             ICB
Packing Llnes
-St/hr                        No.    112,000       16       1        4       20   2,240          ICB
-St/hr                        No.    168,000        2       1        0        8      504         ICB
Irrigation Equipment
-Electric Pump A Motor        No.        780      616     107      495   1,420   1,106           ICB
-Transformer                  No.      2,500      278      64      495      822   2,056          ICB
'H-f Wiring Connection        Km       8,600      278      54      871      698   2,448          ICB
-LT Wiring                   '000.    1,650       62        7       74      168      269         ICB
-Diesel Pump A Engine         Set        760       90     424      110      624      4U8         ICe
-SOmm dia. CI Pipe           '000      4,700      400     140      800      640   8,P46          ICB
-Mobile Sprinkler Unit        Set        660     906                        900      770         ICe
-Rubber Pipe                 'OOOm    1,600       244      97      218      654      666         ICB
-Plastic Pipe                '000.    1,800       600     200      800   1,000   1,86C           ICB
Totel                                                                         48,161
__ __ __ __ __ -- -   _     _ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _I
i
I



- 63 -
Annex 2
°IUA                                           Table 5.2
MID-YifITZE DRIItUL OQELOFDIT PROJErT
Procurement List ot Equipment, iaterial nd SupplIes
unIIt Cost         uantlty bv Prowiuce ituantity  Total Procurement
Itea                                 81rbunn w neq no   IHubel  Total   Cat    Method
Fara/Meranry Machinery        (LM)                                         (W6'OO)
-SrP 2r0-2bp                   W0       400          95      280      748      140        LCB
-Drill. 8hp                     840                   80                o0       10        LCD
-Mureery  ipment                478      120                            2        57        LCE
-Poly Hou  Fram               2.250      120                            n0      270        LCB
.4leuter end Fan710vi            I20                           120       as        LCDI
-rip Irr;Iton                670/ltu     800         0oo               60       402        LIs
-TV                             420      176          1o       10      106       62        LID
-Vido                           420       i6          1o        8       S1       13        LID
-VIdIo Cm_ra                  4 10         1           1        1        3       12        LIS
-Copy machine                 6,60         2           4        a       11       72        LID
-Slide Projector                16S        0           5       10       12        2        LID
-icrC  .utr                   6O.80       17           1        1       19      124        LiD
-Fl mecinw800                              9           1        2       12       60        Li.
-Telexmahine                  90800        1           0        0        1       10        Lie
-Cmaera                         810       27           4       11       42       18        LCO
-Typewriter Chine-Eeg.        2.200       is           4       10       82       70        LCB
-BIulsh Typewriter              10        T4           0        9       48        6        LCB
-Refierator                     780       10           0       10       20       1S        LCB
-Telphone                       140      262           0        2      264       87        LC
-calculator                     120      o             0       18      711       as        LCD
-Ibdio   Tape Rarder            478        2           0        0        2        1        LCE
-Welkle Talkies                 200        0          12        0       12        2        LCS
11wit Ewl t                                                              0      IJB         L8
-le  Furniture                                                          0      228         LS
-D 1l e                                                               0        a         LS
lag nMmHase Equipment                                                  0
-Platform SCaIe                 110       86           a        S      49        a        LCD
-Mnadtart                       110    lS             7       28      140       is        LCB
-Plastic Fleldbox                 8   220D0          000        0   2000       224        LC8
-Felift                      8 7SD0        2                             2      115        LCi
-Weighbridge                 61.000        2                             2      122        LC8
8tor "eu  Equipent                                                       0
1rif t                    18,8DO        a                             8       40        LCB
.4ndcart                         85       12          80       40       82        S        LCB
-Storabox                         1   24000         9800   1670    220800       242        LCB
Vent nd Fen                     89       24          70                94        6        LCB
-Platform Scale                 110        8           a       16       27        8        LC8
Rerch Equipment                                                          0
-araen houee                112.000        1           1        1        8      SO6        LCB
-=I-ap Centifug.              7,800        0           1        0        1        a        LCd
-fractoeter                   1.600        1           0        0        1        2        LC8
-q   Ch_mtoerph               8.100        1           0        0        1        8        LC8
- t. Ab. Spectrophotrmetr    7,000         2           0        0        2       14        LCD
-E ectr c valance            2.580        1           1                 2        5        LCB
-Dryer                          182       1s           1                it        a        LCD
-Keldahl                      2            260  2                        2        8        LCB
-Ceol Cobin.t                2S 760        1           1                 2       S2        LC8
4 water                         225       16                            16        4        LCD
-Meteorological eat             480       16                            16        7        LCD
-MutrldeItr                  10,000        1                             1       10        LCB
-Stereo Micrecopa               480       82                            82       14        LCB
-Incubator                      68D        1           2                 8        8        LC8
-ylinder eOCe2                  860        0           a                 8        4        LCB
-nitroge  Cylinder            1,070        0           1                 1        1        LCB
-El lea Equipment             S8186        0           1        1        2        7        LCB
-Spectropluotography          8.700        9           0       10       19       70        LCD
-Mand refra tometer              41i     l1                            l16        6        LCB
-nd Len6                                 660                             o        a        LCB
-Colorometer                    214        2                             2        0        LCD
-Ordinary Incubator             214       17                            17        4        LCB
Land Prep. Material.           Vr.                                           10,600        LCB
Plentin  Materials             Vr.                                            2.800        LCB
Lim A Copper Sulphate          Var.                                    872   6,100         LCB
Orgnic Fertilizer             Var.                                          11.00o         oP
88,468



- 64 -
Annex 2
Table 5.3
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DZVELOPMZNT PRO:"CT
Procurement List for Works & Small Equipment
Unit Cost         Value by Province               Total  Procurement
Item                                  Sichuan  Chongqing   Hubel              Cost    Method
(US$ '000)
Works
Buildings                               4,015       1,310    1,915             7,240        LCB
Irrigation Works                        4,205         285      610             5,100        LCB
Harvesting Roads                        1,470         553    1,340             3,363        LCB
Subtotal                             9,690       2,148    3,863            15.703        LCB
Quantity by Province      Quantity   Total  Procurement
Small Irrigation Equipment           Sichuan    Ctongqing    Hubei  Total    Cost    Method
-Switch Gear                    8S0       546          55      495    1,096      932        LCB
-Fuel lank & Pipe                110       90         212       55      357       39        LCB
-Electric Pump & Motor           800       10         268        0      268      214        LCB
'-1501100mn Pipe              10,100       60          44'      48      152    1,535        LCB
-150a  die. RC Pipe           9,00(      168          54      118      340    3,060        LCB
-100lm dia. Plp.               6,500      350         118      260      728    4,732        LCB
-Valve (Gate) 50-150mm dia.       40   8,000        1,100    2,150   11,250      450        LCB
-Plug & Connector                  5   51.500      13,150   29,000   93,650      468        LCB
-HoselTab Connee\tor              20    4,693       2,575    5,688   12,956    -259         LCB
-Mini Sprinkler Installation      25        0          45  32,016   32,061       802        LCB
Subtotal                                                                    12,491
-Contract Labor                                                               12,400        LCB
49,594
-----------_    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------



- 65 -
Annex 2
ona"                                           Table 6
MID-YANOTZI AQRICULTUIAL OEVELSiPMT POJECT
Estimete DIelberu.mot Schedule
TDA            DIebarS.mSloibrusent
Fiesal Year    Sameetrol    Cumulativ       Cumultive  Profile  /
Sst   …r -- U--          *IllIon)---- ----   (5)    Toe/Soooter S
1.01                                                   Yeaor 
let              0.0            6.0                     lot
2nd              7.0           18.0           20.0      2nd      26.0
1.02                                                   Year 2
lot              9.0           22.0                    1lt
2nd             10.0           $2.0           50.0      2nd      58.0
Year  3
lot             10.0           42.0                     lot
2nd              11.0           58.0           .00      2nd      75.0
1.94                                                   Year 4
let              5.0o          6.0                      let,
2nd              8.0           61.0           95.0      2nd      90.0
1906                                                   Year 5
lst              8.0           s4.0          100.0      let     100.0
O/ Doisburseomnt protil- for China - agriculture Iono.
Copletlon datet December 81. 104.
Closing dates Dcmber S1, 1006.



- 66 -
Annex 3
CHIN                                                 Table 1 .1
MID-YANGTZE AGICULTWAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Nureelres  Orchard Estbl lsh nt and RNa#billtation
NMa Orchards                      P  *bl lttItlon
-----------------------------_______ - -------- - --_____ - 
Tot I   PY1   PY2   PYs   PY4   PYS Totel   PY1   PY2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -- - -- - - -  - - - _- - - -         _      
Sichuan
Mother-Tree Garden     24      6      8     8      6
Poly-Nouu Nursery
(120 hove.)             4      4
Cttrus               4624  1100  1870   980  1224         0   4J0   600
JIncheng           1794   800   400   400   694              140   140
Valencia           1100    00   500   1oo        0           220   220
Novel              ISWO    200   470   480   480             140   140
Mandarln            100      0      0      0   100
Poinlo              100   100
Lyche                 794   160   850   200   200
Long.n                200      0    94
Plum                   66      0      0    66
Loqurt                116    SO    6o
Total Orchards       6600  1800  16o   1106  1424         0    500   G0o
Chongqlng
Mother-Tree Gardon     20    26
Open Field Nurzey      85    a5
Citrus               2060   700   690   670        0      0   240   240
Jinchen            1260   480   420   410
Valencia            540   140   200   200                    240   240
* Nvel                 60    0o       0
Pomelo              20J    70    70    60
Yel low Peach         260    40   120   100                    100   100
To l Orchards        2820   740   610   770        0      0    840   84O
Nubel
Mother-Tr" Gorden      T0    T0
Open Field Nursery   86.6  86.5
Citrus               28 0     865   846   659   489   219  1688   60o   s8J
Jinche n            963   150   240   269    9s8    94  1688   60o 0        16
Valencia            488    65   101   180   6e   44
Koavl               6O    120   200   240   160    60
Mandarin            500   200   300        0
Yellow Pe"eh           6o7   170   227   170
Loquat                200    60    80    60
Plum                   67    20    27    20
Poor                  200    60    60    6o
Kl-l                  188    40    5a    40
Total Orchards       860    "6   1816  1009   489   216  163    600   68
Grand Total         U1      2925  4005  2975  1668   210  2478  1640           8
_ _______  ___ ___ __ .__. _  ._._____________ __ 



NU-Y1MOZE ACIOL1aAI OeAiON.0U    PRDL
Sidcu   Crop Shdel - Jincha   Orange
~~~~~~~~---____________________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ( as  )
unit cast Pn      Pm2    P18   PY4   P5   P16   PV7   P18   P19  PTIo  PIll  P122  Pn11   P114  P115  P116  P117  Ptl8  P119  PnM
Wo14(tn/a                                                2.5      8 10.5       is518.78    24    26    2?    27    27  21.5         30    30    30    30    30    30
Price uaa/tanul) 1/                                     1.112 1.112  1.112  1.112  1.112  1.112  1.112 1.112  1.112  1,112  1.112  1.112  1 112  1.112  1.112  i1.12  1,112
CStr_ Inc_                                           2.7tO  6.672 11.676 18. 6  20,60  2 sM  26.912 30 024 so 024 30 024 81    as0 360 33.8 60 38,360  33. 360 33.360 3336
Cras ft.wO                            0       0      0 2.780       211,678 16,660 20,50 26,60 20 912 8D0024 30,024 30,024 81,9   360 33 .360 33.360 33.360 33,360 33.36
Investmt Coste
Load Pr ation
Cnpolesiv 2/         Y1lll7t  8 300
O ICP F.rtiliver 31/    /t    1500
tiot */              't3.0/md   6.300
Oron Ihaw,. Seed S/    12/kg      300
Planting
Cost of Se n  6/    1.0/unit            1 300
f rti lr-P 7/          Y1.0/h           1'300
Laor 81               18.0/si             J60
Irriatian Cas                            10.6                                                    633                               So3                              64
Pe.lalmnt 9/                           218
Sahots t nvest. Cat              11,400 1.713       0      0      a      0     0      0      0   633      0      0      0     0 98         0     0      0      0   64o
Regiresent for Tre  obintononce
O    ic l"Wore           tan        0       a     a    11    12    Ls    16    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20
I FoclPrt. -urge     lC          0      0   300   356   8        481    MY7  717   615   918   918   918   918   918   918   913   913   913   91,3   913
Compound Fsrt(o1- S)  Kg                    0   326   4U       67   786   e0   10SO  S1060  1050  1OS0  1050  1060  1060  10   1060  1060  1050  100  10650
Pesti;ide               t           0      21    21    40    40    40    58    Be    58   S5    so    B6    s6    so               6    S      56    a6    56    66
Lbaor                  baday        0      18   10   440   475  5868   5s    660   660   770   790   790   7M0   790   790   790   7M    70   790   790
tregiatian              Ca *        0  1o,00 1,73  916I0  2.160 2,890 2,590 2,S0W  2.50 2,590 2.850 2.590 2.690  2,690 2,t40 2,50  2.590 2.590 2,590 2.890
Trea Ibintenance Casts
organic lnure           16D/t       0    460   480   Uo   720   900 1.06   1,200  1,200 1.200  1,200 1.22      0  1,200  1.200  1,200  2.200  1.200 1.200  1S200  1,200
Chesical Fort.-Urs"    10.6/bg      0       0   160   218   234   269   362   430   489   548 5  546 54               O 54064    346   56    548   546   56   546
Caeaau FortC(1-UI-15) ° 1.0/        0       0   826   411   5" 62S7 75    60        0  1ago0  1.060 1oos0    1 o06   1 0so 60  10 0    a10    1,060   , 060  1.060 1.050  1.060  0a
Pticee                 m            0    77    777 1.480  1.460  1 460  1.961  1.961  1.961  2.072 2,072 2,072 2'072 2.072 2.372 2.072 2.072 2 072 2.072 2,072
Laor                  10 si         0      45   540  1,80  1.40  1,755  1,765  2,040 2.040 2,310 2,870 2.370  2.370 2.370 2.870 2,870 2,370 2.370 2.370 2,370
Irrigation            YOWL27/eS     0     29    47    so B     S      70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70
F::  wipment             LS        68       0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0
Fs P Toole              LS          0       0    44    44    4         0o  180   150   15    n5    IS0   1so   1SO   150   150   15    150    50   15    1S0
Special Product Tm      5.75        0       0     0   160   384   671   969 1,19   1,IW   1.662  1 726  1726  1720 1.8022  1,u  1918  .918  1.91  1,9168  ,916
S&b-Total Operating Cast             6   1,851 2,394 4,846  4,982 6,0so 7,237  6,100 6,494 9,062 9:186  9.186 9.116  . 2e2  ,878 9,8  9,8e78 9,378  9,a87  9.376
Toals Icasts                     11,466  18.044  2.394 4 384  4.932 6,060  7.287 6100 6494 9695 9.8   9.8   9.IN6  9.2322 9.77   9.8          9889389881,2
T Revenue                       (11.460)(1.0 4)(2.394)( 1.56) 1.740 5,626  9.443 1,7501 194 127 20,6 8  2085  20,6  2, 4S410 2a.55 2.962 23,962 2.   296
Wt Present Vagu1                  41810
financlal Mes  of Return             249
1lto: This is an saaepl of adoral crop .a-ls. Other crop saels for citrus nd other fruits by varieties an  by Juriadictions con be fatnd In the Projet Fi les.
1/ bea  an 1987 enderln financial price adjusted by lOs to derive 19  price.
21 bploslve at 8000o at/bat n  n10/set.
8/ OrianIc frs IlLaer 60 tan/he at Wilan.
4/ Itouire 2100 ENdy   0* 3.0/sendey.
5/ f Ieire 150 g at  ,0/kg.
/1 0 seoedlng at 11.0/sedlSIng.
7/ Only CAP Is used at planting at 130 kg/ho.
e/ Ragir 120 mdaws  at 18.0se nday.
0/ Ibtized sprayer price         d would spray 20 he              Other caste inclwde
,,..,
i3
I-'



Annex 3
-68  -                                                   Table 2.1
CHMD
UID-YAUTZE AUIoCL1tAL OEVlEAPIT PROJECT
Para Uodgi - Sichue. Prow ic. 1/
Preeent-Uithout Project      Futur.-Witheut Project       Future-With Project
Other   Totel             Other   Total             Other Citru 11/ Total
Graln. $/Crops 4/         Grimm  crop to0/          Groin   crep   Velcil
Are (Mu) 2/                 5.5      1.0      6.5     5.s      2.0      7.5     4.0      0.5       4.0      6.5
Output (Kg.)             2,200.0                   2,750.0                  2,200.0            7,200.0
Groom Value (Yuan)         m90.0   400.0  1,2M0.0  1,100.0   900.0 2,000.0   610.0   312.6  7,200.0  532.5
AniasI Raising 5/                           600.0                     700.0                               700.0
Total lecee                              1,6U0.0                   2,700.0                             9,002.5
Opearting Coet"
Seeds                       22.0    13.0    35.0    41.0    30.0    71.0    30.0         7.6       0.0     n7.6
Fertil nr                 240.0    16.0   250.0   260.0       3.0   335.0   230.0    22.0    4J0.0    662.0
Orgnle Mnure                46.0    24.0   - 56.0    6.6    75.0   148.0    49.9    13.6    320.0    *35.
Pestlldee                   11.0     0.0    19.0    82.4    25.0    67.4    28.0         6.S    62.0    591.$
Fare LMahinery              0.0      0.0      0.0    30.7      0.0    30.7    22.4       0.0      40.0     62.3
Animal Powr                 27.5     5.0    $2.5    69.2    1S.0    74.8    48.1         3.6       0.0     40.9
Irrigation Water           24.6    10.0    34.3    79.S    41.0   120.8    57.7    10.8           19.0     6.0
Feed                                        100.0                     120.0                                120.0
Other Cost 0/                                63.0                      67.0                                M.2.5
Rspaymmt and Interest Ceste                                        O36.0
Total Cogt                 370.     74.0   607.3   561.8   274.0  1042.3   4W6.0    06t  1,871.0  3,16.0
Nat Value of Production                   1,272.0                   1,57.3 0,006.6
Other Iucem 7/                              200.0                     200.0                                 0.0
Family lucer                              1,472.6                   1,67.6                               5,905.6
Fmily Labor (anday) 2/        80      W0      409      880     160      570      240      40       823        .0
Rturn per Matby                               2.6                       2.9                                 9.7
Per Capita Ine  /                             205                       372                                 1161
1/ A typical husahold ha S _faily   _hr, husband, wif. two children and a grandparent. TWy have 6W0 mandays vlaIlble
2/ Total are Ia   6_ for which 5.6 Su *e planted for grain. and 1 am for other crep.
8/ Ce_pese of t m of rice, 2.5 no of wheat eud potato. Corn o nernally found Intarcroped wlth potatoe.
4/ Norma ly Is a mixed of peauts, r_,    ar cne, tobacco and Oe.
5/ Anml, raising lncl_de 2 pigs, chiln and ducas
O/ Frn tax, OX of not Income.
7/ Other lncome freo hired labor out 07 days at .3.0/day.
S/ Labor used In farming plus 00 days usd In animal raising.
9/ Ueaed en S prwna par family.
10/ Add one eu to other creop.
11/ Allocat 2 en fre  grinnd eOh r cros ad acquire 2 more e of n   land.



ig-vYAusZ ANIOLTRAL fEVELPMf  t MOJECT
Per. Mdl  ^ Cho.,qlne MIanicip.Ii  1/
Pr.sget-W).t  Project            FaturWitim" Project             Futre-Wtb Project
OCher     Totel              Othr    Tote               Cltu  /       tote)
Grafl" 2/   Crope              Orion   Cree                 4rains Jlchen
Ate (Mu)                    5.0      0.0        6.0       5.0     0.0        3.0      1.0        2.4        7.4
OAtpt (ts.)             2,450.0              2.60.0  2,0.0                2,0.0  2,0.0    4,90.0    7,450.0
arm  Value (Y1u)        1,292.0      0.0    1,202.0  1,20.0       0.0    1,20.0  1,202.0    4,00.0    6,02.0
Aa.l seib n. ,/                                m.0                         u00.0                           9o0.0
Tote loe"                                    2,092.0                     2,102.0                         o,m.0
Operatin  COst
Se_1                       Va.       0.0         .5      53.5     0.0       58.5     58.6        0.0        go.5
FertilIzer                 76.5      0.0        76.6     70.5     0.0       7.6       70.6      266.0      32.S
Orgpnic Mbngr              20.0      0.0        20.0     20.0     0.0       20.0      20.0      115.¢      135.0
Psticide                   20.0      0.0        20.0     20.0     0.0       20.0      20.0       46.0       08.0
Farm Mbealhiey              6.0      0.0         3.0      5.0     0.0        3.0       3.0       24.0       29.0                       1
Anise Powe                 30.0      0.0        80.0     30.0     0.0       80.0      30.0        0.0       80.0
Irer ;ion Voter             3.0      0.0         3.0      3.0     0.0        8.0      5.0        51.0       34.0
Feid                        0.0      0.0       U28.0      0.0     0.0      1J0.0      0.0                  180.0
0Utr Costs                  0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0       92.0                 0.0       503.0
Rbeyasnt asd Interest Cost.
Totea Costs                N3.0      0.0       420.0    213.0     0.0      435.0    213.0       474.0    I,30.0
Not Volue of Production   1,078.0    0.0    1,06.0  1,079.0       0.0    I,77.0                          5,672.0
Other Income 4/                               420.0                        46C.0                           210.0
Famtly tees..                                2,0o3.0                     2,212.0                         5,112.0
famly LAWor (UNoy) S/       850        0        470       350       0        470      350        129       593.0
Intrn per M1NY   .                                .6                         4.7                            6.6
ar, Cepit Income 6/                              ad7                         in                              660
1/ A ty"lel bssbold bas S tooly smete, husband, f*tt, two *1l)d4. sN  2 9rAdpeMs. ThI bsv M  _e ysd   oval labl. Per pet.
2/ Pleated 2 Mof rice dXring Mey-Augwt, 8 M of gitet *iur during Nov"Ir-Aprl) thi  offset potee  lnercreped with core durint Vey-St.
a/ Cpo  of 4 pip.
4J l_co froM 2 peruos  work 2 weeth at 18.6/dey (120 days)
Jinle 190 days _sod to raeisin  p;g.
0/ Sesd e. a Pa d per faoly.
7/ 2.4    f t eddtlogl la fEt   e s lope ellocsted frm townip  evo*romet.
*x 



ID-YANGTZE CURIOiLlUAL DEVELWMDIT PROJECT
fare Medel - Nubel Mm Orchards 1/
Preet-Without Project                  Fture-Without Projoet                  Future-With Project
Potatoe   Corn    Rica    Total Potatoes  Corn    RICe         Total Vegeables Rica   CItrue   Total
Ji-
Are  (Mu) 2/                 8.5      8.5      2.4      5.9      8.5     3.5      2.4      5.9       0.2      2.4      3.5      5.9
Output (Kg.)             4,875.0    1024   914.0             6,260.0    1280 1,257.0              1000.0  1257.0  6720.0
Gosa Voalue (Ym)           487.6      40S   847.0  1,192.5   525.0       490   470.0  1,49S.0    160.0   478.0  5720.0  6858.0
Anisel Ralsing 8/                                     520.0                              620.0                               620.0
total Incom                                         1712.5                             2113.0                              6n06.0
Operating Cost
Seds                        20.0    20.0    2.50    86.0    20.0    20.0    25.0    O6.0             0.6    25.0      0.0    26.6
Fertiliaer                  84.0   118.0    46.0   248.0    96.0   120.0    58.0   271.0             7.0    58.0   $52.0   412.6
Orlanic Manure              10.0    16.0    20.0    46.0    10.0    15.0    27.0    62.0             8.0    48.0   264.0   820.0
Peticidms                   10.0    10.0    20.0    40.0    17.0    18.0    22.0    57.0             1.5    21.6   4S6.0   476.1
Fare Machinery              10.0      0.0    10.0    20.0    10.0        0.0    15.0    25.0                 22.0     0.0    22.0
AnimlI Peer                 10.0    10.0    16.0    86.0    15.0    10.0    20.0    45.0                     26.0     0.0    26.0
Irrigation Water             5.0      0.0      6.0    10.0       5.0     4.0      5.0    14.0                12.0    26.0    37.0
FPed 4/                                                64.0                               90.0                                06.0
Other Coost  6/                                        02.0                               74.0                      $28.0   828.0
Reay ment  d I ureat Coet                                                                                           690.0   690.0
Tot l Cost                 149.0   166.0   141.0   694.0   175.0   187.0   167.0   099.0            17.7   207.6  2114.0  2486.8
Nat Value of Production                              1128.6                            1,414.0    142.8   270.4  8606.0  4642.7
Otbhr Income  /                                       26.0                               612.0                               314.0
Fi _ly lI ace                                        1418.5                            1,926.0                              4656.7
Feel ly Labor (Manday) 7/                             410.0                              480.0      40.0   210.0   170.0   500.o
Retura per Mbnday */                                    2.0                                2.9                                 9.1
Per Capital I      qn.   9/                             2P                                 U66                                 971
1/ A typical household bh 56 fe_tly  _b r  buhband, wife, two children a*d a gr_afther. They have 690 _ndays ovailoble per year.
2S/ Total land area Is 6.9 au planted  .5 mu of potatoes In January, InStrcroped corn potatooe   field in April and planted 2.4 au of rice It Voy.
8/ Composed of 2 pigs, raied by the greafatebr for 10 months.
4/ resently ued 820 kg of corn ad corn stah at an avere  value of Y.2/kg. l the futtre sill used more corn and low stalkh, thu  the feed Is
voluwd  t V8/kg.
C/ Farm tax, 5S of net inca..
6/ Frm other  ideliesm wtivitih  uch a* raising kchiehn, gathering fort products (frod) and catching fish free paddy fields, speding
on averae of 80 mndays.
;/ Fer farming pluo 60 days of pig railing.
9/ To labor   d tn farming .                                                                                                                           S
9/ Good en6 persons pr fm ly.                                                                                                                         x
w



- 71 -
Annex 3
Table 3.1
CHIN
MID-YANOtZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
eorder Prices for Principal Products and Inpute (in 199 Constnt Tern.)
Jinchng      Valencia        Novel     Mandarin        Urea          DAP
N6 Tr*a   Status                      X            X            X            X           U            u
1969 Prices
World Market Price(C/to") 1/        478          611          600          490         125           '0
Freight (S)                           0            0            0            a          8s           so
CIF/PFO  Port (S/ton)               478          511          00           447         108          15i
CIF/FO0 Port(Y/ton) 2/            2,288        2,412        2,882         2110         769          986
Port Cherges and Distributors'
Margin 8/                         167          174          190          162          26           26
Transport:Port-Wholoeal-r 4/        120          126           72          186           6            t
Repacking St Wholeseler 6/          267          257          267          267           0            0
Wholesler Handling Costa            100          100          100           s0          6s           94
Spoilage 6/                          60           60           60           s0           0            0
TransportiFere-Wholeaslm- 7/         24           24           24           24          24           24
Economic Price (Y/ton)          1,609        1,681        2,189        1,402         698        1,078
Financial Price (Y/ten) 5/      1,288        1,872        1,7I'        1,279         900        1,400
2000 Prices
World Mfrket Price($/ton) 9/        467          526          617          504         16o          269
Freight (S)                           0            0            0            0          8s          a8
CIF/FOB Port (3/ton)                497           26 0617                  407         213          807
CIF/FOB Port(Y/too) 2/            2,299        2,468        2,912        2,204       1,029        1,449
Port Charge and Dietributors
Margin 8/                         169          170          198         1"           26           26
Treasport:Port-4holese,er 4/        120          126           72          185           5            5
Repecking t Uholoaler S/            267          257          207          257           0            0
Wholeealer Handling Cost            100          100          100           s0          98         10
Spoilage P/                          60           58           58           as           0            0
Transport:Fere-Wholosler 7/         24           24           24           24          24           24
Economlc Price (Y/ton)          1,572        1,747        2,214        1,490       1,170        1,688
Financial Price (V/ton) O/      1,288        1,872        1,765        1,279       1,200        1,600
1/  oeed on 1947 USSR border prices for Jincheng (US1480/t) and Valencia (USU460/t), Canadian border
price for Madelrin (UOS447/t) en USI640/t Hongkong price for Novel, adjustod by 1OX for 199 constant
prlce. Ure and D*P prices are based on World Sank Coomodity Price Projoction,
Janwuary 22, 1990.
2/ Exchange rte of Y4.72 * US$l.
8/ Port handling charge of Y92/ton plus 8.9X  xporters' mrgln for citrus. Port charge of Y25/ton
for Ur  an CAP.
41 Based on rall transport chrge. to USSR borders of YO.085/tbo/be, and an average di stanc of 4000 km
and cost of  60/t, to Hangkong borders, adjusted by rail transport converPton factor of 0.9.
5/  Cost of cardboard cartons (SThob/t O YS/box), adjusted by convelofo factor of .9.
0/   SS spoilage.
7/ Sased on roa  traneort charges of YO.2/ton/ks, and an everas distance. of 100 kwm,
djusted by transport converslon factor of 1.2.
O/ ia)ed on 1967 f%^ ncinl prie., adjuted 11S to reflected 199 price trend.
9/  osai on long run price projection that citrus prices *Ill b  incroesd by 6.83 in 19M
and dacr bsd iy 8.23 In yer 2000, World Bonk Comrodity Price Projection, November 1968.



IUD-YMI       11Ll UAL OiE.OASW   C
IFnascial mad _;nac P.Te. fto  fruits
Pe-to            Lryets              i-               Pt_m               Loi_et            ellm Peac P_er                        l
Flt,ncial Ecngac Flamacisl _Tcgalc Fmincial b        cFgaPnaclal _gle  FPscial bEnaic Financial bEa_le Financial b_ie.. Fin nl '_ ic
1W? brik.t Pries (ton)          1.400    1.40t    4,600      40    8,g50       8,0    100         1.0    29.300    2,600   1,600       1,60     1,400     1,400   2. 00    2.500
Tamport fru fmmoalors 1/            5         6        a         6       5         6        s         t        5         a       5         a        5 t                S         i
-Howl     Cno .a                   4         4        4         4       4         4        4         4        4         4       4         4        4         4        4         4
411ortk   coau                      7         7       10        to        9        9        9         9       20        go        9        9        a         8       20        so
-Retil lhrgln                    1SW        118                4a4      848      S840     17        178      247       847     1UN        18      inI       up8      247      287
-To* 2/                            S7         0      184         0       94        0       48         0       67         0       4         0       87         0       67         0
Wholgelo V lvo (Y/ton)        1.209     1.248    8.999    4,122    8,040   S.U1    I.8'6       16,=    2.17      2,20    1.11S      1.425    1.210     1.244   2,157     2,223
-Tranoport ferm Form  3/           10        19    10         1O       1i0      180       so        6O       20       2S        2D       24       100      216       30        20
tlmd II mg Cow"                     a         a   t              6        6        6        a         6        6         a        6    t            a         6        6         6
Assume 4/                          o9        72      192       192      144       144      7S        75      107       107       so       Ot       51        51      106       1l0
-Tas S                             is         0      210         0      1s8        0       02         0      1t1         0       74        0       go         0      li         0
.Wholsle Marein                    48        40      18        15n      li       1n8       6o        so       66        06 as     5       55       41        4'       a5 
Faragte Value CY/ton)           1.015     1,100   0,2        a an88   2466    260       1.30     1.409    1an        2 01)0   1.188     1.270     674       930    1.814    2.006
Adjuotad Valtu  by 1N for 1969   1.167    1.2      a 779    4.127   26         8 , 09    1 475    1 612   2.05       2 ,No   1. 8       1461    1.006      1.070    2067     2.80T
1/ TrpMort frm  bolcIcaa    rketa to rntai I irkcets en average of 25 km at 0.2/tflm. adjuatd by 1.2 of tran_gorttien cenvriaen factor for anesic priew.
2/ Real  ing tae of Sen not volue of fruits.
3/ Truneport coats from farms to _rklt 100 km ean asraga. adjute  by 1.2 of tranaportatien c r Teaien factor for  semic priema.
4/ 6S epoiaIa.
51 Fare. tseam  of 5.763.                                                                                                                                                                          t
~ImI
0



- 73 -
Annex 3
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Conversion Factors Used
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                  0.86
Machinery/Equipment b/                                         1.50
Energy - Coal c/                                               1.40
- Gasoline                                              1.60
- Diesel                                                1.10
- Electricity                                           3.70
Transpot - Road                                                1.20
- Rail                                                0.90
Cement                                                         3.00
Steel                                                          1.90
Labor - Unskilled                                              0.80
- Skilled                                                1.60
- Management                                             2.00
- Technical                                              2.00
Other Non-Traded Goods                                         0.90
Earthwork - Irrigation                                         0.79
Structures                                                     1.02
a/ SCF -(Official Exchange Rate)/(Shadow Exchange rate )   4.7/5.5
h/ Based on conversion factor of 1.0 for imports under ICB and 1.5 for
locally made machinery and equipment.
c/ The other conversion factors are based on The IBRD's Economic Prices
for Project Evaluation in China. January 23, 1990 and actual financial
prices prevailing in Sichuan and Hubei.



NIll.YNI:CT  A8RCLlURAL  DJP9T FROJET
Source and,Leas of Funds: Onaninne County FDC
(Y'000 current prices)
sub-                                                                               2001-  Sub-
Year 1/                         1986   1987   198B   1969 Tot    190   1991   1992   19         1994   195   1996   17   198   19   2000  2001  Total Total
Sources of Funds
1. W~np-Tdim Loan
(a) M  Credit drnadoen 2/                                        S400  6soo  4000   1600    400                                                     p17000  17000
b) omstic Loins
-Development Lon                    600                  600   1660  2250   900    700   500                                                        60     6wl
-Poverty Al eviation Loan                 10   200    360                                                                                             0    350
Ce) Financial Dev. Funds
-rant                        l1O    120    60      S0    400                                                                                           0    400
-Interest-fre 'Funds        10      IS0     6o          130                                                                                            0   I880
-Low-Iaterast Funds                               600    600   1680  2300   900    600   S0                                                        6000   6500
2. Nerkcting Profits 8/           15    20      25     80      90    113    M6    340    340    340   840   882    864    487   6S0    684   6640  10976  11065
8. Service        4/
-mdlinoe sln                 lCOo    is    20    25    Uo0    is    is           9      7               ;43    203
-     Orcerd"                 840     48     58           440     42     8'-  29       20                               Iss                                  579
-Frait-bearing Tee.                                         0                          35      44     62     6o     98   124    US8   188   1276   1965   1963
-latorial wpply                 3      3      4      5     14    140   152   11O       60    S0    S0        6o    60      60     60     60   540   1402   1416
4. Sublon Intreet S/                                            0    100   80    820    30    390    890    8         310   290   260    20   S0  a890   39S
5.  vWoduetion-Support Fund. 6/    9      a      8  e          12     4      66    180    13     10    180    14    188    80    807         2   4293   63   6225
6. oppaymant                                                   0                                                     176   1788   1785   1783  2186   29000  2900
Totel Souriua                 2369    986    857    815   48      9180  10o97   6787   3871   2404    972  1068  2125  8048   3095   3174  3S99  82888  87064
Appl Icstlomo rf Furnd                                                                                                                                    4     7
1. Investment in Conat.          20D    1!0   100            450   1600  IS00   1140    600   S00                                                       6a40  s7
2. Inveat. Now Orchardn         168068         20 o    600  306D   7100  6650  4870   2310    940                                                      23670 26750
8. Fre for TAhnicel Service              45     70     70    1S       60    92    9z       92     92     92    92      92     90    80      75    400   1339  1524-
4. Operational Expense           105    110    115    150    480   200    220    250    290    800    250    280    250   280   250    270  2700  5470   5980                     -
5. Lon  supymnt 7/
-0t!. R_nt                                                                                                          60     00   0s    80   1010  1230   13
-e Loan                                                                                                           1020   1020   1020   1020  L2920  17000  17000
tiomeetic Reptymant                                                                                                686    665   685    U68   7930  10670  10670
-Repayment for the fi rat 4 years                                                                                                                           S60
Total Appl cations of Fund"  195    988    485   820   4195  8980  10462  611i2  282    18S2   842    842   2127   2125   2115   2130 24960  64819  72894
Not Revenue                      684      1   -129     -5    201    200   517   58S    889    872    630   724    698   921    980   1044  10409  17869  14890
Cumulative Cash Floe             $84   8WS    206    201    2D1   200   717   1802   1891  2463  S           3817   4515   8486   6416   747i0  17669  17869  14890
1/ This CR1C his aIready ben In oporation  imer 1986  the cah floe will dsho  24 years fre 196-2009 with the pre.nt project prriod of 20 year, atarting year 199.
2/ Total project coat Is Y34 *;lIeon of which Y17 elli ion from the World Bonk. Y28.7 mi Iion would be used t&r mother tree pardwn and orchard eatabli usant and
- Ys.8 million wuld be usd for FDC'. onetruction end direct investmnt.
8/ Marketing profita are composed of males of fruit from packing I inta (Y80/t) and from conventional tresOnu_t (Y12DJt). Only 885 of the profit can be kept by CFDC.
4/ Service Income are cooeed of comnisioe on male of seedling (Y.08/eedling), esebliehInt of now orchard.   6/ha)  fruit production ('IOt of 705 of prodction)
end mterial supplies (2  of the total value af purchaed materiels).
S/ Paymnt of eubion Interest from beneficiaries.
6/ Out of YSD/t production aupport fund, Y24/t is for CFDC, the rest goe to Provincial and Prefecture Governmnt..
7/ Interest rates are as follows: World Dunk loan to CFDC 65 P.s. Domeatic Bank loan 91 pas, Doa.etic borrowing 5 p.m from 199 on.
Landinf from CFDC to new orchard. *ill be at ABC previing rate presently at 19.241 pa.
M 



- 75 -                                 Annex 3
Table 6
CHINA
UID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Reco--ry
Tot l
Sichuan    Chongqtng    Hubel       Project
(60,000)    (l0,000)    (40,000)   (180,000)
(V '000)
At Full Development
Incremental Income s/                     828,624      80,700     116,000    476,524
Lm :
Imputed Value, Family Labor b/             10,468       8,508       1,920      15,070
Imputed Value, Management Services c/      82,882       8,070      11,000      47,652
Imputed Return to Own Capital d/           60,se0       4,6e0      25,080      90,600
Allowance for Risk/Uncertainty c/          82,882       8,070      11,600      47,062
Sub-Total                              180,198      15,498      50,200     201,891
Equals:
Project Rent                              187,081      21,212       5,600     274,048
Project Charge
Management Fee and Taxes J/              26,8865       ,211      10,150      41,090
Debt Service f/                          71,800       5,860      29,440     100,160
Total Charge                            99,695       8,501      89,590     147,840
Rent Recovery Index M) 9/                      8           40          so          54
During Project's Life h/
Proj ect Rent                             428,400     160,680     878,82      988,212
Project Charges
Taxes i/                                 84,042       5,494      11,880      60,s86
Interest and Loan Repayment j/          201,600     80,184      180,807     4e8,161
Total Charge                            285,642      91,078     191,697     519,017
Rent Recovery Index (S) 9/                       56          51          51         5s
Project Costa  k/                           225,454     86,260      160,944     478,664
Cost Recovery Index (3) /I                    106         106         115         108
- --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- -- - ---- --     ---   - ---     - -- ---           - --
*/ 8aed on the Incremental Incom  of farm families In the farm model analysis, before
deducting project charges and debt service.
b/ SOed on lnerementel labor valued at 80% of the market wage.
c/ Ten Percent of net Incremental Incom.
d/ On famlly Investment at Y28,818/ha assuming 12X rate of return to alternative uses.
*/ 83 on management fto and 6.76% on special product taxes.
f/ Assuming 19.24X ABC rate of Interest paid, 6 year grace periods and 15 year
repayment periods, all converted to 1968 values.
g/ Project charges as a percent of project rent.
h/ Exprss d as present values over 25-year project life  discounted at 12X.
1/ 6.75X on special product tax, 8X management fee end 8R of gross value of sale.
j/ Assuming IDA fund onlendbd at  5.1  end local funds at 18X. Both for 17 years with
7 year grace, discounted at 12X.
k/ Total project costs excluding former labor contribution, cost of support services
(repaid from service foe) and mrketing facilities (repaid from profit they generate).
1/ Project chargs as a percent of project costs.



CHDIA
MM1-YAM=Z A88CLLUaAL. 0eVa.89,UI PROTr
TotaI Project
Economic Analee a: E -I nic Costs and Saafits */
(Yan  Iii i.on)
19   1991  1992  19I   19    1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2008  20O4  2006  2006  2007  2006  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
invetamnt Coeta
1. MM Orchards
-citrus                  62.9  68.2  46.7  27.1   4.3
-Othar Fruits            12.9  17.2  1S.5   7.8   1.9
Subtotal Naw Orckards    75.8  00.4  64.2  84.6   6.2
SS. RAbab. Orchard       29.6  15.4   0.8   0.1
Subtotal Invetent Coats  106.4  9S.8  64.5  34.7   6.2
Smramntal Anual Costa
-citru                    0.2   8.9  28.4  88.0  42.2  48.7  69.2  64.8  66.7  69.9  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2  70.2
-Othar Fruits             0.8   3.5   6.8  10.3  11.9  18.8  15.5  17.2  17.7  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  16.6  18.6  18.6
-Rhab  Orchards           1.1   2.6   3.2   3.9   4.8   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4
SUtotAl QOerting Cta    1.6  14.9  82.9  52.2  18.4  66.5  79.1  66.2  68.9  92.9  98.8  98.8  e8.3  96.8  98.8  93.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.3  es.3  9S.8  98.8
Taotl Costa              107.0 110.7  97.4  68.9  64.6  66.5  79.1  66.2  88.9  92.9  93.3  98.3  98.8  98.8  98.3  98.8  98.8  98.8  93.8  98.3  98.8  98.3  9              9.3  98.8  98.8
Sncr_ntal Sof Its
-Cietru                   0.0   0.0   0.0  12.0  41.6  91.2 152.3 214.8 260.2 S88.1 187.8 413.2 424.9 481.6 436.7 441.9 446.5 446.8 449.0 449.0 449.0 449.0 449.0 449.0 449.0
-Ohr  Fruits              0.0   0.0   0.9   8.3  20.8  86.6  46.6  49.6  59.3  69.8  64.2  98.1  98.6  101.1 106.1 16.7 109.4 109.1 109.1  109.1  109.1  100.1  109.1  109.1- 109.1
Rehab Orckards            0.0   6.4  18.4  24.2  12.6  42.5  52.2  60.2  63.6  63.6  64.6  64.8  64.6  6.8  64.8  64.6  64.8  64.8  64.8  64.6  64.8  64.8  64.6  64.8  64.6   C%
Total Danfita             0.0   6.4  17.8  44.6  94.6 170.8 25.1  824.6 408.1  471.2 6s6.6 57.1  66.3 S97. S   607.6 618.4 620.7 620.? 622.9 020.9 620.9 622.9 622.9 620.9 i.9              1
Not lneremental lanafita  -107.0 -104.3 -o0.1  -42.4  29.9  10S6  172.0 228.4 814.2 878.3 448.5 477.8 495.0 604.2 514.8 520.1 3W7.4 529.4 529.6 529.6 529.6 529.6  529.6 529.6  529.6
Met Presnt Va lu         1.322
eonomic Rats of Return    34.43
s/ Dati led analysis tf diffaraft variatfe, af citru and differant type f fruits ca  be fund in the project files.



_ 77 -
Annex   3
Table 7.2
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELWPEEMT PROJECT
Suwuary of FRR for Citrus Sensitivity Analysis
........................_._..__.__.____..___.................._....._
Price falls by 25%     Price falls by 39%
.. .. .......... .. ... .......... ...................... .........
NVP at 12%       FRR  NVP at 12%         FRR
(ljw9 Yuan)     %      (1989 Yuan)      0
. ... .... ..  _.. ...  _. ._. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I. New Orchards
-Jinchenu                  18,871       19          5.102       14
-Valencia                  16,793       18          3,464       13
-Navel                     46,026       27         27,251       22
-MandarLn                  14,420       17          1,123       12
-Pomelo                     3,024       13         (61788)       9
II. Rehabllitated Orchards
-Jincheng                  40,589       33         29,583       28
-Valencia                  34,887       38         25,503       32
-Navel                     69,320       45         52,320       39
...._.........



- 78 -
Annex 3
Table 7.3
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
--------_--_--_---------------------------------_------___-------------__----___-----------_
Price   Invest.   Fert.       Labor    Benefits
Base     falls   costs       costs      cost       lag
Case    by 20Z  inc. 102  inc. 102  inc. 102   2 years
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------_---
I. New Orctards                               Economic Rate of Return (2)
-Sweet Orange              28.4       24.2      27.4       28.0       28.2       21.2
-Valencia                  33.8       28.9      32.5       33.3       33.5       24.4
-Navel                     39.5       34.0      38.1       39.0       39.2       27.8
-Mandarin                  25.9       21.5      24.7       25.5       25.6       19.1
-Pomelo                    24.6       20.4      23.8       24.0       24.4       18.3
Subtotal Citrus          32.0       27.3      30.8       31.5       31.7       23.3
-Lychee                    29.5       24.4      28.2       28.9       29.2       21.1
-Longan                    22.1       17.7      21.0       21.7       21.9      16.2
-Loqauts                   22.1       18.1      21.4       21.5       21.7       16.6
-Yellow Peach              44.8       38.0      43.0       44.1       44.6      29.6
-Pear                      26.5       21.0      25.3       25.9       26.2      18.3
-Plum                      33.4       28.9      32.5       32.8       33.1      24.6
-Kiwi                      37.0       31.7      35.5       36.8       36.7      26.2
Subtotal Other Fruits    34.2       28.2      32.8       33.0       32.6       25.0
Subtotal New Orchards    32.1       27.3      30.9       31.6       31.9       23.3
II. Rehabilitated Orchards
-Sweet Orange              45.2       38.5      42.8       44.7          -      30.5
-Valencia                  54.8       45.9      51.3       54.5          -       33.8
-Navel                     62.7       52.9      58.7       62.5          -      38.1
-Yellow Peach              62.2       50.7      58.0       61.3          -       35.2
Subtotal Rehab. Orchards  48.7      41.2      45.9       48.2          -       31.8
Project                   34.4       29.2      33.0       33.9       34.2       24.5
--.--------------------------------------------------_-------------__--------__-------------



"I           112           PT1P74                      P75"          Totl         "I            P72           Total
Usit   53  ActuI  SAN  Actual  SA  ACual  WA  Actul  WA  A.t.*   WA  Aatal   A3  Actua   SO  Actul  SA  Actal
t.  M  rellard                                                                                               It. fihbtaIltted Orebha*
Uothar Traabcm       ha        S              0                    1                   *24
P*lg ll_ sm
(U0 hs)              h         4                                                                    4
Citns                ba     1100          1870             0          1224             0          4024          480                         480
S_"   4            he      800           400           400           64                         1754          140                         140
Vaecl              bh                    5 go00        100                                      1100          220                         220
11|"1              bh      200           470           480           480                       I150           140                         140
llumerla          'h                                                 100                         100
Pemlo               he      100                                                                  100
Lychea               ha      150             0                  200      2So                                     70                          70
Leap                 ha                     94                                                      54
PIus                  ha                                  66e 
Pi=ua                 he                                  so                                       1a6
Total Orcards        ha      100          160           116           1424             0           00           600                         C00
Mother-Troe Garde.   h        2Q                                                                    26
_Oe  Flood rasg      ha        8                                                                    8
Citrs                 ha     700           690           670             0             0          20e0          240                         240
we"a a,'""         he      480           420           410                                      1260
VlwIeeb            ha      140           200           200                                       50           240                         240
Nvel               ha       0o             0 
omelo               ha       70           70            so                                       200
Val le Pach         bh        40           120           100                                       260          100                         100
o tal Orcards        ha      740            10           770             0             0          2820          840                         s40
lNetar-Tre  Cordes   ha       70                                                                    70
GPM FPaid Uurry   ha          .5                                                                  86.5
Clt*u               ha       S5           646           05o           489           216ie        2e49          au            OU           to
S"eat OraPb        ha      150           240           269          1o             *4           on           M00           M83         1m88
valecla            he                     M 10         I8O           6             44           4U
Haval               ha      120          200           240           too            me           n0
Nasisria           he      20D           800                                                     S0
Vollaw rom"          ha      170           227           170                                       Be?                                             so
Lo"qut               ha       6o            so            so                                       200                                             crI"
Plu                  ha       20            27            20                                        6                                              l x
Peas                  ha      so            6o            so                                       200
Kil                   ha      40            58            40                                       188.
TotalTorar           ha      36           1815          1009         4i9             210          86m           600           638          1688
Grand Total          ha     2026          4005          2075          1668           216         11060          1040          688          2478



OWMA
MID-YANOTZ AORICIL7URAL DEVELOPMIT PROJECT
Kby Vonltoring Indiectorn - Irrigtion
Indiectore for Physical         Unit       m             Pm2           pns           PU4           P7
Pr"r                                    SR  Act"aI   SAR  ActuI     SM   Act"aI   SM  Actul   SR  Actu"I   SAR
I. lIe Orcharb
(  Sickuns
Dlliomi Pump, HOIprlnkl-ro   he        110           13            120           142                          60
Electrie Drip                  ha       s0                                                                     20
Elecric Pip, N lMprln&ler  ha    1,JO0             1,'0          1,1#6          1,424                       5,200
Sub-TotaI                     ha    1,450         2,06U         1,510         1,36                         5,10
awgl PbON                      ha      562           s0            01e                                      1,046
Electric Drip                  ha       10                                                                     10
Electric Pump, Mini Sprinkler  ha      144           102           164                                        404
Sub-Total                     h&      740           610           77o                                     2,520
tc) Nubs
D0n  P.LPp, MM                 ha       69           1a5           100            44             22           83
Electric Psp,661               ha      664           977                         820            64         2,600
Electric Pup, Sprinkler        ha      1t 1?7                      161            as            33            5O
Sub-Total                                        1,814         1,006           489            i16         3,765
OD
II. Rehbiltte  Orchards°
(a) Sicuan
Diesl Pip, INHMprinkler        ha       sO                                                                     50
Electric Pump, llNlSprlniler   ha      450                                                                   450
Sub-Total                      ha      5O0                                                                   SW
(6) CkongIng
Diesl Pm, IN                   ha     12                                                                     192
Electric Pmp, Mini Sprinkler ha         48                                                                    4J
Sub-Ttot I                     ha      240                                                                   240
(c) HbAS
DWas#o Pump, INI               ha       60            as                                                     1i
Electric Pimp,IN               ha      600           626                                                   1,225
Eletric Pomp, Sprinkler        ha      120           126                                                     246
Sub-Total                      ha       0            3                                                     1,,W
III.   tir Planting                                                                                                            c 
(a) Slea
Nursery                        be        1                                                                     1
Planting Out                   ha                     10                                                      10
(b) Cboagqing
muarey                         ha                                                                               1
Plasting Out                   ha                     10                                                       10
(c) Hubl
Nursery                        ha        1                                                                      1
Plantlin  Out                  ha                     10                                                       10



aunA
MID-YANTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELVPMEMT PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators - Road
Indicators for Physical          Unit       Pi             PY2           PY8            PU4            PY5             Total
Progres                                  SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SM   Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual
I. Nor Orchards
(a) Sichuan                       km       88             47            80             85                          146
(b) Choning                       km       52            s6             54                                         162
(c) Hubei                         Iv       69            188           144             44            21            488
Sub-Total                              174            241           229             T9            21            748
II. Rehabilitated Orchards
(a) Sichuan                       km       88            47             80             85                          145
Totel                                   207            288           268            114             21           888
_ I
OD



MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTtRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators - Packing and Storage Facillties
Indicators for Physicel          Unit       PY1            PY2           PYs            PY4           PYs              Total
Progreso                                 SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual  SAR  Actual   SMR  Actual   SAR  Actual
(a) Sichuan
Install of Packing Lines-St      unit       0             12             8                                          1a
Install of Pecking Lines-St      unit                      2                                                         2
Construction for St lines        unit      12              a                                                        16
Construction for St lines        unit       2                                                                        2
Storage construction            6002        a                                                                        3
(b) Chongqing
Initell of Pecking Lines-8t      unit                      1                                                         1
Install of Packing Linea-St      unit                      1                                                         I o
Construction for at lines        unit       I                                                                        I
Construction for St lines        unit       1                                                                        1
Storage construction            600.2       8                                                                        8
(c) Hubei
Inst ll of Pecking Lines-St      unit                      4
Construction for St lIne         unit       4
Storage construction            8OO2        1



- 83 -
Chart 1
CHINA
Chart 1. Mid-Yangtze Agricultural Development Project
Implementation Schedule
198ga/   1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995
Production
Land Development    -                                                 -
Nurseries
Budwood Mother
Orchards
Orchard
Establishment
Orchard
Rehabilitation
Procurement of
Inputs             --        --
Marketing Facilities
Procurement of
Lines
Installation of
PackinS Lines                          -
Constructlion
of Storage
Institutional Support
Domestic Training -----------…                             --
International
Training
Technical
Assistance
Equipment
Procurement
Reporting
Semi-Annual
Progress Reports            - - - - - - - - - - _    - - - - - - - -
Mid-Term Review
a/ From June 15, 1989 under retroactive financing arrangement.



- 84 -
CEAR? 2
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Project LdTing Group (PLO)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ EScientific a*no
Technical Co mittee
JoTnC ProJect Zbnavaaont             r- - -          (SIC)
Offc  ( JPUO) B  Jng o                  
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Provincial Fruit Dcv.           Provincil ProJct              Provnc   STC  F 
Corporation PFDC            Managemt Office (PHO)
I                                                           I
I                                                           I -
I                     l   Prefecture PLO
Prof cture PllO
I                         (Sichuar. Only)
r r-------  Cunt PMO    -------^
| County Fruit Dov -   -- - -- - -    nty PlO                 County mTC
LCorporation C                    CC  I
Legend:
… - -  - - …Coordination and advise
Administrative Function



- 85 -
Chart 2
EaplaUstiom
Provincial PRO (cont'd)
CENTRAL
market.ing
PLO:                                       -      Review and approve lower level PMO
work plans
Formulate project policies at        -     Monitor physical and
all levels                                 financial progress
Facilitate    p r o j e c t          -     Coordinate  and  supervise  project
implementation                             implementation
Resolve implementation problems      -     Review technical specifications
-     Undertake LCB
JPMOs                                       -     Liaise with JPMO regarding ICB & LIS
-     Prepare detailed accounts and progress
-     Plan,    coordinate    project              reports for review by JPMO
activities                           -     Prepare withdraval appalications to
-     Implement    project    with                IDA through JPMO
provincial,   prefecture   and
county PMOs                                             COUNTY
-     Liaise    with    project
jurisdictions                        CFDC:
-     Arrange procurement under ICB
and LIB                              -     Implement nurseries component
-     Implement overseas training and      -      Prepare   feasibility  reports  for
TA                                         production component
-     Prepare accounts,  audits and        -      Implement orchard establishment and
progress reports                            rehabilitation    on    behalf    of
-     Prepare   project   completion              beneficiaries
report                               -     Operate packing lines, transpor-tation
-     Forwardwithdrawal application1s             and storage facilities
to IDA and progress reports          -     Coordinate marketing with PFDC
-     Assist beneficiaries in provision of
PROVINCICL                          inputs and technical advice
-     Undertake LCB procurement
PFDC*
PEO:
Provide market information to
CFDC                                 -      Implement project policies as agreed
Coordinate    interprovincial              by PLG
domestic marketing and exports       -     Develop work plans in cooperation with
Provide services to CFDCs                  CFDC
-     Resolve    project    implementation
PHD.                                              problems
-     Prepare  annual  budgets  aad  work
Draw up annual detailed work               program in cooperation with
programs and budgets                 County PMO (cont'd)
Assist FDCs to undertake fruit
development and                            CFDCs
-.    Prepare progress reports, accounts and
audits



- 86 -
Chart 2
3xplanation
SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL COMIHTTDE
-     Provide  technical  advice  to
PLGs, JPMO, PHOs, and FDCs at
all levels
-     Advise on varietal development
and quality aspects
-     Planning   of   institutional
development,    particularly
overseas training and TA
-     Meet  periodically  to  review
technical project parameters
.



CHIM  POa'.Um    mumIDUL. FOR gSJ    f AM SUA1TIAS                          Kid-Yangtze Agricultural 9evelopeent Project
a. ~~~~~              .'90                      . 91                     *92                                                                         Va
a  &    |  ICB |  5-8  17.7                                                                    _-|
,jdPebtiieer &           L B1-|a;lt Peti                     -.iii i5-=III]11i-§
co,       IiCB   19.7 
par-ka- No.-
Pakg  IO. 4                                                                                                                                                                                          OD 09*a""^o      r
2nd yra. Fertilizer &       CB    5.8  o"
Fmaticides
Materials               LB 1.
Package No. 6
'lt y6e Fiat5tttg           LC     0.      m
Materials aB                     .
&fas yr,a.wung              LCB    0.9  "MD-
Msterlils                             CU
Materials                c      0.
Oranic Pettil zer        Direct          mm                            M.
dS sin  buses             Putch.  11.2  A.vml
Computers                   Lia    0. 
Office Frurnture &           &     0.4                  --*-
equipment                   LS 
T0TtA L                   70.9                                                                                                     ee.eoai.
aVWdUSUm O                                              FIVN%U*)M,OACW  W     g       0OCe* N14                                         es O4UOWUMef14
s.in Ms.1iin1I IOWAEI14 
..mIavMus.m?aAIIinmis                      I 0*koe                                                                             *RW"4*0*l 



/
MAP SE%TION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ul



Zhongolnpn  114            la~~~IRD 21M
f!o                          _                           ' \                                     z to- I0  T I LTo                          a.AiL114D
GA  SU                         ~~SHAANXI-
(                                Na                   -~~~~~~~~~EN- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y U N N = 7                 )t                         TNtH.r_EETlitONAE    
X\                                                                                                                      -          nXtl N G  f  'c _r
/ -G        *..                                                                                                           . '  '   awr
,,~~                                     ~     ~~ ~ ~~~                                          ~        ~     ~     ~~~~~~ A ,.  X  I A N  NHUI19
: ( H
GaongyIIoo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                               ann.o yI 
r4~~~~-d  ~ ~   ~         ~       ~        MD-ANTZ  AGIUTRLDVEOMN     RJC
Yi   N ~ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      u
YACICHLtE    G                                  WA
4  CONQIG'  no~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,NMBR LOGTE YBL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
L         ~             POJEC COUNIES R CA  1            -2AJORROAD
LJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY19



