Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16632
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2172-CHA)
June 3. 1997
Rural and Social Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UJnit = Yuan (Y)
1989 (appraisal)  $1=Y 3.76
1990             $1 =Y 4.78
1991             $1=Y 5.32
1992             $1 =Y 5.53
1993             $1 =Y 5.76
1994             $ 1 =Y 8.60
1995             $1 =Y 8.50
1996             $1=Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter(m)             =  3.28 feet(ft)
I kilometer(km)           0.62 miles(mi)
I square meter(m2)     =  10.76 square feet(ft2)
1 square kilometer (km 2  0.4 square miles(mi2)
2
I hectare(ha)=0.01 km    =  2.47 acres(ac)= 15 mu
2
I mu                   =  666.7 m = 0.0667 ha
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFDC           -   County Fruit Development Corporation
FDC            -   Fruit Development Corporation
JPMO           -   Joint Project Management Office
ICB            -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA            -   International Development Association
LIB            -   Limited International Bidding
MACHIMPEX  -   China National Machinery Import Export Corporation
MOA            -   Ministry of Agriculture
NCB            -   National Competitive Bidding
PMO            -   Project Management Office
PPMO           -   Provincial Project Management Office
SAR            -   Staff Appraisal Report
SOE            -   Statement of Expenses
STC            -   Scientific and Technical Committee
Vice President           Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director                 Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief           Joseph Goldberg, EA2RS
Staff Member             Rapeepun Jaisaard, Sr. Agriculture Economist,
EA2RS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .                                                                                                              iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................                                                   iv
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                              .....................................1
A.  Project Objectives ..................................................l
B.  Results and Implementation Experience ..................................................2
C.  Project Impact ..................................................6
D.  Major Factors Affecting The Project ..................................................9
E.  Project Sustainability .................................................                                       10
F.  IDA  Performance ................... ................................................................................ 11
G. Borrower Performance ...................                                                                        12
H. Assessment of Outcome ...................                                                                       13
I. Future Operation ...................                                                                            13
J. Key Lessons Learned ...................                                                                         14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................                                                                15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:  Key Indicators For Project Operations .20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .23
Table 8A:  Key Indicators For Project Operations ...............................................                    24
Table 8B:  Project Costs in $ Million ...............................................                              25
Table 8C:  Project Financing ...............................................                                       26
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................                            27
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                              28
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................... 29
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                           29
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                30
Table 14:  Role of Women in Project ...............................................                                30
ANNEX  A: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE  MEMOIRE .................................................                                31
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR                                                            ..  38
A.  Project Objectives .................................................                                           38
B.  Implementation Experience and Outcome .................................................                       39
C.  Key Lessons Learned and Future Operation .................................................                      40
ANNEX C: PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT AREAS .............................................. 42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- 11i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2172-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementatior. Completion Report (ICR) for the Mid-Yangtze
Agricultural Development Project in China, for which a credit in the amount of SDR 48.6
million ($64 million equivalent) was approved on August 8, 1990 and made effective on
December 4, 1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement took place on April 16, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Rapeepun Jaisaard, Task Manager, EA2RS with the
assistance of Zhong Tong (Consultant) and Arlene Reyes (EA2RS). The draft was
reviewed by Messrs. Joseph Goldberg, Chief, EA2RS and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor,
EA2DR. The borrower provided comments which are included in Annex B to the 1CR.
Preparation of the ICR was completed following the Bank ICR mission and is
based on materials from the project files and meetings with the project staff in the field.
The borrower contributed with views and data requested, its own evaluation of the
project's execution and comments on the draft ICR.






- Iv -
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2172-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    Project objectives were to in( .ease the amount, productivity and marketability of
fruit production in low income areas of Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing and thus increase
incomes and alleviate poverty. The project aimed to accomplish this by structuring
production to satisfy domestic and export demand for quality, variety and seasonality and
by stimulating the development of effective marketing institutions. Specifically, the
objectives were to: (a) develop 11,986 ha of new orchards on then uncultivated hilly
slopes and rehabilitate 2,473 ha of existing orchards (approximately 80 percent of the
planted area was to be citrus and 20 percent lychees, longans, pears, loquats, plums,
yellow peaches and kiwi); (b) increase the provincial agriculture bureaus' ability to
identify, propagate and distribute healthy, disease-free planting material, to
institutionalize virus indexing and budwood registration programs, and to provide
technical assistance for research and extension programs and training for managerial and
technical staff in all aspects of fruit development and marketing; (c) establish
commercially independent Fruit Development Corporations (FDCs) to market quality
fruit in local, distant and export markets by introducing modern postharvest techniques
and investing in packing and storage facilities; and (d) provide a demonlstration model for
fruit production that would be applied in other areas.
2.    These project objectives were in line with the Central and Provincial Government
strategies of making efficient use of availablc human, land and water resources and
diversifying the incomes of rural people through production of high-value crops. 'I'hese
objectives were clearly spelled out in the project documentation and supported by project
staff and beneficiaries. They reflected the Government's implementation capacity and
were consistent with both the Government's regional development strategy and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy at the time of project preparation.
Implementation Results and Experience
3.    The project has achieved its objectives of introducing new technologies in the
development of wasteland along the Yangtze river into high-quality orchards. It set
advanced technological standards for land development and lhorticultural practices,
thereby producing high fruit yields and quality and consequently large benefits for
farmers. The project achieved all its physical targets and produced results even higher
than the ambitious SAR estimates. The FRRs for orange varieties ranged from 25-35
percent in new orchards to 38-55 percent for rehabilitated ones, typically higher by



- v -
several percent than the SAR estimates. Participating farmers acquired more land and
earned additional income, initially from intercrops, then from the new orchards, or by
doubling or tripling yield in rehabilitated orchards.
4.    Total expenditure at project completion was Y 869.6 million, 20 percent more
than estimated at appraisal due to high inflation in China after 1990. However, due to
devaluation of the yuan against the dollar during implementation, total project cost, when
calculated in dollars, was $6 million less than the SAR estimates. The delay in credit
approval owing to political events in 1989 delayed the start of land development, seedling
production and planting of fruit trees and resulted in slow initial disbursement. However,
disbursement rates caught up with the SAR time line beiore project completion. The total
amount disbursed was $69 million, an amount higher than the original $64 million
equivalent credit due to the depreciation of the dol]ar against the SDR. The project
closed on December 3 1, 1996, after a one year extension.
5.    IDA's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. IDA played a catalytic role in pooling international and domestic research
experience. It helped the government to successfully develop a project that met its
objectives. IDA's performance during supervision is viewed as highly satisfactory in
helping the Project Management Offices (PMOs) resolve implementation problems and
providing technical advice at each step of project implementation. The performance of
the borrower was highly satisfactory with strong support from central, provincial and
local governments. The project was well managed, and the farmers were enthusiastic,
hardworking and in many cases creative. The project's components were for the most
part implemented in line with the agreed implementation arrangements, and appropriate
actions were taken to solve problems as they occurred. The supervisory role of the
project's Scientific and Technical Committee (STC) contributed greatly to the high
technical standards adopted by all the orchards. The borrower complied promptly and
completely with the covenants prescribed in the legal agreements.
Summary of Findings, Plans for Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Overall Finding. The project's overall outcome is considered highly satisfactory.
It achieved its objectives and did it with a high degree of sustainability. The most
significant accomplishments were the introduction of new technologies, varieties and
management systems.  The technologies enabled the establishment of a budwood
registration program and virus-free zones, high orchard horticultural standards, more
productive varieties by top-grafting, and improved fruit quality by enhanced postharvest
treatment. The availability of varieties that mature at different times allows an extended
harvesting period. Better irrigation, inputs and management have had tremendous effects
on yield, production and quality. The project packing plants grade, clean, wax and label
the fruit to make it ready for up-scale markets and exports. The overall economic rate of
return of the project is very high; at 40 percent it is even higher than the already high
appraisal estimate of 34 percent.



- vi -
7.    Project Impact. The project successfully increased income and employment for
participating households and workers. It doubled the per capital income of about 300,000
farm families and provided job opportunities for about 130,000 workers during
construction and implementation. Hlarvesting and postharvest activities have provided
and (will increasingly provide) job opportunities in botlh orchards and packing houses,
where 30 percent of the workers are women. The project has already played a large
demonstration role in the development of the Three (Gorges area and in the integration of
fruit production, processing and marketing. Large numbers of nonproject farmers now
use virus-free seedlings from the project nurseries and sell fruit through the project's
FDCs. It appears that the hectarage of new orchards developed by farmers outside the
project area amounts to four to five times that in project orchards. The demonstration
effect for rehabilitated orchards is about three times the area of the project's rehabilitated
orchards. The project already has significant impacts in alleviating poverty, reducing soil
erosion and generating linkage benefits.
8.    Sustainability.  The policy environment provided by the central and local
governments has been and continues to be favorable to the sustainability of the project.
Sichuan and Hubei Provinces and Chongqing Municipality all have demonstrated strong
commitment. They have developed operation plans in consultation with the prefecture
and county governmlents that would: (a) maintain the l'MOs and the FDCs, with some
modifications in the distribution of staff among fLnlctions; (b) continue to pay the salaries
of the fruit production technicians who are training farmers; and (c) provide operational
budgets for the PMOs and the FDCs until they become self-sustaining. Since the
majority of orchards are owned and operated by farmers, the actual work of orchard
maintenance rests with them. Institutions and markets developed under the project
continue to provide them  with strong incentives to maintain orchard quality and
productivity in order to earn additional income. UJnderlying future operations is the fact
that the market demand for quality fruit is strong, in line with expectations during project
preparation.
9.    Future Operation. The future operation of the project will need to concentrate
on orchard maintenance, postharvest processing and marketing. The PMOs will continue
to be responsible for: (a) production management to make sure that production standards
are maintained; (b) technical training for orchard maintenance; (c) disease and pest
monitoring, control and forecasting; (d) advice to farmers on fertilizer type and
application and on irrigation timing, frequency and volume; (e) maintenance of standard
technologies and tools for fruit picking; (f) information gathering for production
projection; (g) maintenance of project facilities such as irrigation facilities and roads;
(h) collection of project household data for conducting future performance audits of the
project; and (i) in cooperation with Bureaus of Finance at each level, recovery of the
Credit plus interest in line with on-lending agreements. The County FDCs will continue
to be responsible for (a) reliably providing necessary inputs to project farmers,
(b) operating packing lines installed under the project, and (c) assisting farmers in
marketing their products. The performance of the County FDCs will depend on their
ability to develop marketing channels and procure farmers' production, their ability to



- vii -
develop short, medium and long-term marketing strategies and their success in
establishing direct linkages with large domestic and overseas wholesalers.
10.   Lessons Learned.  The key lessons learned from  the project include the
following:  (a) Strong research and scientific bases drawn from  domestic and
international experience and the involvement of a science and technical committee have
been essential to the success of this project. (b) Active roles of Ministry of Agriculture,
provincial and local governments and research institutes in carrying out central
government policy  and  cooperation  among  them  contributed  to  the  smooth
implementation and success of the Project. (c) Staff in the implementation agencies
should be drawn from technical e areaus familiar with the technical details of the
operation. (d) Participation of farmers with a sense of ownership from the beginning
made a big difference in how the project was implemented. (e) Adequate and timely
allocation of counterpart funds according to schedule is a prerequisite for smooth project
implementation. Finally, (f) more supervision missions should have been budgeted,
particularly with the object of assisting the Provincial PMOs with procurement and
disbursement problems, and earlier TA for marketing is needed to start marketing off on a
strong footing.



- 1 -
CHINA
MID-YANGTZE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2172-CHA)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The project objectives w.re to increase the amount, productivity, and
marketability of fruit production in low income areas of Sichuan and Hubei Provinces
and in Chongqing Municipality and thus increase incomes and alleviate poverty. The
project aimed to accomplish this by structuring production so as to satisfy domestic and
export demand for quality, variety and seasonality and by stimulating the development of
effective marketing institutions. The project objectives were in line with the Central and
Provincial Government strategies of making efficient use of available human, land and
water resources and diversifying the incomes of rural people through production of high-
value crops.
2.    The specific objectives of the project were to:
(a)   develop 11,986 ha of new orchards on then uncultivated hilly slopes and
rehabilitate 2,473 ha of existing orchards (approximately 80 percent of the
planted area was to be citrus and 20 percent lychees, longans, pears,
loquats, plums, yellow peaches, and kiwi);
(b)   increase the provincial agriculture bureau's ability to identify, propagate
and distribute healthy, disease-free planting material, to institutionalize
virus indexing and budwood registration programs, and to provide
technical assistance for research and extension programs and training for
managerial and technical staff in all aspects of fruit development and
marketing;
(c)   establish commercially independent Fruit Development Corporations
(FDCs) to market quality fruit in local, distant and export markets by
introducing modem postharvest techniques through investing in packing
and storage facilities; and
(d)   provide a replica model for fruit production in other areas.
3.    The project was designed to provide demonstration models for the development of
hilly waste lands into orchards.  The major emphases were on:  (a) setting high
technological standards (in land development and horticultural techniques); (b) increasing
yield and quality of fruit (varieties, cultural practices and irrigation); and (c) maximizing
benefits to farmers (emphasis on fresh fruit production, extension of harvest season, and



- 2 -
strengthening of postharvest activities and marketing). This design was clearly spelled
out in the project documentation and supported by project staff and beneficiaries. The
objectives reflected the Government's implementation capacity and were consistent with
both the Government's regional development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy at the time of project preparation.
B. RESULTS AND IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.    Physical Results. The project has achieved its physical targets for nursery and
mother-tree-garden development, orchard development, orchard rehabilitation and
construction of postharvesting and t' iining facilities. According to the Key Indicators for
Project Implementation table, the project has developed 77.5 ha of nursery and 120 ha of
mother-tree gardens, rehabilitated 2,473 ha of existing low-yield orchards and developed
11,986 ha of new orchards. In nursery development, Sichuan used polyhouse nurseries
instead of the open-field nurseries used in Hubei and Chongqing and built 60 polyhouses
on 4 ha or land. The seedlings from polyhouse nurseries are stronger and double the size
of the ones from the open field nurseries. In total, the development of new orchards was
100 percent of the SAR estimate, but in reaching this overall total, the new citrus
orchards were 103 percent of the SAR target and those of other fruits 87 percent, largely
due to the substitution of plantings of navel and mandarin oranges for those of other fruits
in response to market demand and climatic suitability. Within other fruits, there was also
some shift - from lychee to longan hectarage. Overall, 11,986 ha of new orchards and
2,473 ha of existing orchards (the latter also 100 percent of the SAR estimates) were
developed.
5.    The project built 935 km of orchard-access roads (105 percent of SAR estimates),
773 km for the new orchards and 162 km for the rehabilitated ones. These improved the
accessibility of the orchards and, thus, lowered transport costs for inputs and outputs and
increased fruit quality. The project also constructed irrigation ponds, reservoirs, pump
houses, irrigation facilities and electrical facilities. The deviation in the numbers of
diesel pumps and electric pumps from the SAR estimates was due to the adjustment of
the irrigation facilities during the mid-term review (para. 34). The construction of a small
orchard house (200 m2) in each orchard for storage. an orchard office and temporary
sleeping quarters for technicians were also added during the mid-term evaluation.
6.    Training centers cum  county project management offices (1,000m2) were
constructed and equipped with office equipment and training facilities in 33 project
counties, one prefecture and one in Hubei Province. Fruit packing lines and houses (300-
500m2), warehouses (500m2) and ventilated storage facilities (500m2) were also
constructed in thirteen of them. All project counties were provided with several pickups
and 5-ton trucks each for distributing inputs and transporting fruit. Two barges were
procured for water transportation.



-3 -
Implementation Experience
7.    General. The project was implemented by the Provincial Project Management
Offices (PPMOs) of Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing Municipality and coordinated by a
Joint Project Management Office (JPMO) at the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in
Beijing. Under the PPMOs, there are county PMOs in all 33 project counties. Fruit
Development Corporations (FDCs) were set up at provincial and county levels. A
Scientific and Technical Committee (STC) was appointed to provide overall technical
advice and coordinate project scientific work with MOA and research institutes.
8.    Strengthening Research atid Development.  The project assisted Sichuan
Provincial Fruit Research Institute, Central China Agricultural University in Hubei and
the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Chongqing in setting up virus-indexing
programs and providing temperature controlled greenhouses, laboratory equipment,
training and technical assistance. These institutes had provided technical bases for the
development of the nurseries under the project.
9.    Scientific and Technical Committee.  The STC was composed of eminent
scientists and technical specialists from several research institutes in the areas of fruit
development, virus indexing and budwood registration. It played an important role in
(a) setting technical standards for orchard establishment and rehabilitation, (b) developing
criteria for site selection and management, (c) reviewing irrigation layout and orchard
design, (d) inspecting and approving work at completion, (e) reviewing research
proposals, and (f) advising the PMOs and FDCs on technical matters.
10.   Fruit Development Corporations (FDCs). A few of the project counties had
existing FDCs, and these were strengthened. In the others and at the provincial level,
new FDCs were established under the project. The county FDCs assisted the farmers in
orchard development and provided necessary inputs They were (and continue to be)
responsible for packing lines installed under the project to provide farmers with enhanced
packing, storage and transportation services. They also assist farmers in marketing their
products. The provincial FDCs have very limited roles at the moment; their roles may
expand when the orchards reach full production, if they are able to provide county FDCs
with valuable export services.
11.   Nurseries, Mother-Tree Gardens and Varieties. A nursery and a mother-tree
garden were set up in each project county to ensure the availability of high quality virus-
free seedlings for project farmers. The project promoted several new varieties developed
by research institutes and tested them in the project areas for suitability to local
conditions. The new varieties are superior in quality and also mature at different times
during the year. Sweet orange (jincheng) has several superior qualities compared to the
traditional red tangerine variety-thicker skin-making it easy to transport without
damage, larger size, greater sweetness and lack of seeds. It is also an early maturing
variety (early to late October) and can therefore capture the early market and command a
higher price. Several navel varieties (bonanza, navelina, robertson and newhall) have



- 4 -
been successfully grown in the project area.  Navels are high value because of their
quality, storability and transportability. The fruit is a mid maturing variety (between mid-
November and early December) and can also be stored for several months for marketing
during the spring festival. Mandarin oranges, promoted mainly in the Hubei project areas
come in three varieties, which mature at slightly different times: from early September to
November. Valencia is a summer orange which matures from April to May.
12.   There are also superior varieties of'other fruits, such as the Sha Tian pomelo in
Changshou, which was chosen by MOA as the best one for the area. There are also
nurseries producing the superior seedlings of lychee, longan and yellow peach developed
by the Luzhou Horticulture Research Institute. Overall, the project nurseries provided
several million seedlings to project farmers.  The project nurseries are operated as
independent entities on a commercial basis.
13.   New Orchards. The project developed 245 new orchards on marginal hilly land
located in the 33 project counties along the Yangtze River. There were several stages in
land development, site selection, survey, design, terracing and soil improvement. The
site selection criteria were followed satisfactorily. In a few cases near the Three Gorges
in Hubei, orchards were established on slopes of more than 30 degrees due to the desire
to establish orchards in some counties with limited available land. In these cases, the cost
of land development was higher than others. After early-on mission comments, site
selection criteria were strictly followed in later sites.
14.   In the areas with rocky ledges, explosives were used to break up the rock. Rocks
and rock slabs were then used for making terraces according to project standards.
Supervision missions made several suggestions for correction of certain deficiencies, and
these were made. In order to develop soil in these rocky terraces, farmers dug trenches
one meter deep and one meter wide and filled them with green and pig manure, rapeseed
cake, lime and compound fertilizer. Green manure and bean crops were planted in this
presoil, which was left to mature for a year, and then planted with seedlings from the
project's nursery in a one-meter-deep hole filled with green manure and other fertilizers.
15.   Almost all the project sites were located on sloping land.  Irrigation ponds
(reservoirs) were therefore able to be built on the hills above the orchards. Water is
provided to the orchards in two ways. It is either pumped uphill to the high level
reservoir from a low lying water source using a stationary electric or diesel pump located
in a small pump house or a portable diesel pump or a water source above the orchard is
captured and then distributed downhill through a distribution network (pipes or open
ditches). Field irrigation is carried out by hand-held-hoses or, in a small number of cases,
by sprinklers. Irrigation design was a key element in the project, because effective
irrigation is essential for consistent high yields and high fruit quality. The design also
incorporated an appropriate drainage system to prevent terrace erosion.
16.   Rehabilitated Orchards. Under the project 2,473 ha of existing orchards were
rehabilitated. Soil improvement, better irrigation and improved budwood were the key



- 5 -
elements in raising the productivity of the rehabilitated orchards. For soil improvement,
the project provided explosives to blast rock, labor to dig trenches, and green manure,
fertilizer and soil amendment to fill the trenches and place around the trees. Irrigation
ponds, pumps and pipes were installed. Some orchards were equipped with sprinkler
systems. It took the existing orchards one or at most two years to improve the soil, build
irrigation facilities and top-graft the existing trees with new improved varieties. The
majority of the orchards were completely rehabilitated in 1992, with the remaining few
completed in 1993.
17.   Yield and Production. The actual yield profiles for the new orchards in Hubei
and Chongqing are similar to those estimated in the SAR. Yield in some counties in
Sichuan is somewhat higher due to healthier-than-expected seedlings from the polyhouse
nurseries and good orchard management. Fruit production in the rehabilitated orchards
commenced on a limited scale between 1992 to 1995. In 1996 citrus production reached
73,000 tons (43,500 tons from new orchards and 29,500 tons from rehabilitated orchards).
Of this 35,200 tons was jincheng, 15,000 tons valencia, 11,500 tons navel, 10,600 tons
mandarin and 700 toons pomelo). It is expected that in the full production year of 2005,
project production will exceed 300,000 tons. Production of other fruits in 1996 was
4,600 tons for new orchards and 1,70 tons for rehabilitated ones. It is expected that in the
full production year of 2005. the project's production of other fruit will be about 42.000
tons.
18.   Financial Rate of Return (FRR). Financial rates of returns were recalculated
using actual costs to project completion and 1996 constant prices. They were uniformly
very high across all project activities and generally higher than SAR estimates. The
FRRs for orange varieties ranged from 25-35 percent in new orchards, higher by several
percent than the SAR estimates. For instance, the major variety, sweet orange, with a
FRR of 27 percent, was 3 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. Pomelo was the star
performer (34 percent compared to 18 percent at appraisal in Sichuan and 46 percent as
compared to 19 percent at appraisal in Chongqing). I The FRRs for rehabilitated orchards
are even higher than those for new orchards, ranging from 38-55 percent, generally
somewhat higher than at appraisal. The FRR for nurseries and mother-tree gardens
ranged from 29 to 56 percent, also significantly higher than at appraisal.
19.   Training and Technical Assistance. Training was divided into international
training and study tours and domestic training. The project has managed technical
training well, both international and domestic. Several workshops were carried out using
expatriate TA and domestic experts in the areas of virus indexing and budwood
registration. Domestic training was conducted for 6,200 technicians, who later trained
33,400 farmers in the project areas. In all, there were 200 classes for land development
(6,000 farmers), six classes for nursery and mother-tree garden management (260
farmers), 79 classes for planting and irrigation (1,065 farmers), about 600 classes for tree
'Although pomelos were a small component in the project, the demonstration effect has been very large.



- 6 -
maintenance, harvesting and postharvesting (26,000 farmers) and 50 classes for project
management (2,300 staff). Each year, there was an annual conference where experts and
project staff from county PMOs and technical bureaus discussed project problems and
shared their experiences. Several study tours were conducted in groups of about six to
ten persons in Thailand, USA, Spain, Australia, Israel and 1long Kong for orchard
management, irrigation management, postharvest treatment and marketing. Four-week
overseas training was carried out for fruit cultivation techniques and disease and pest
protection. The actual numbers of persons receiving domestic and international training
were higher than SAR goals by 61 percent and 51 percent, respectively.
20.   Procurement. Procurement otarted off slowly but proceeded as planned, and the
delivery of contracts was satisfactory. ICB procurement was centrally coordinated at the
JPMO, but the contracts were signed with the user provinces.  The bid document
preparation, bid invitations, bid evaluation and contract awards were carried out by the
Chinese National Machinery Import and Export Corporation (MACHIMPEX) in
cooperation with the JPMO and the provincial and county PMO procurement units. The
bulk of fertilizers, chemicals, other inputs; steel, cement, wood, galvanized pipes, pumps,
transformers, motors, processing lines, barges, and trucks--a total of 43 contracts valued
at approximately $53.4 million-was procured through ICB.  There were six LIB
contracts-for laboratory and office equipment-valued at $6.6 million. Some pipes and
small irrigation equipment valued at $1 9.0 million were procured under national
competitive bidding (NCB).  The remaining materials, tools and equipment, where
contracts values were too small to justify ICB or NCB-valued at $6.1 million--were
procured through direct shopping.  All of the equipment procured met technical
specifications, with significant delays in some cases, liowever. NCB procurements were
done according to the MOF standards. Ex-post review of NCB contracts below $200,000
was carried out during the first few supervisions, and( a few contracts and SOE records
were sampled and reviewed during later ones.
21.   Disbursement.  Despite the slow initial startup of the project, disbursement
percentages caught up with the SAR estimates before project completion. Disbursement
was 13 percent behind the SAR schedule in June 1992, but the gap narrowed to 4 percent
of target in 1995, and disbursement closely followed the SAR estimates for the final two
years of implementation. The last IDA credit disbursement was on April 16, 1997
following loan closing on December 3 1, 1996. Project expenditures were estimated to be
$136.9 million. The total amount disbursed was $69 million, higher than the original
credit amount of $64 million equivalent due to the depreciation of the dollar against the
SDR. SDR 48.6 million ($69.02 million) was fully disbursed.
C. PROJECT IMPACT
22.   Increasing Income and Employment. The project has been very successful in
increasing income and generating employment for participating households and workers.



- 7 -
The majority of orchards are collectively owned by village households.2 Orchards range
from 20 to 50 ha and are typically shared by 100- 150 farm households, who provide labor
and other local inputs for land development, tree planting and maintenance. Each
household has an average of 3-5 mu of orchard land in addition to their existing low land
plots that they use for grain production. Income generated from new orchards is in
addition to the family income from  other activities.  For the new orchards, their
incremental income was initially from intercrops, with net revenue from Y 3,200 to
Y 10.000 per ha. After four years. when the orange trees start bearing fruits, income from
intercrops gradually declines and income from oranges increases. In 1995 net income
was Y 13,000 per ha of sweet orangez and Y 26,000 per ha of the navel variety.
23.   Incremental income from rehabilitating orchards comes from doubling or tripling
the yield and substituting better varieties for the original onles.  Generally, the
rehabilitated orchards have top-grafted the existing red tangerine trees with sweet or
navel oranges. After four years, per capita incomiie in the project villages averaged
approximately Y 3,000. T he increase in income and standard of living is quite evident in
the villages adjacent to rehabilitated orchards. MIany project farmers in these villages
have built new houses from income received irom the orchards.
24.   The project has provided income generating activities for participating farm
families and reduced surplus labor on farms. In addition, the project has provided job
opportunities for about 130,000 workers during construction and implementation.
Harvesting and postharvest activities have provided and (will increasingly provide) job
opportunities in both orchards and packing houses, where 30 percent of the workers are
women.
25.   Poverty Reduction. Base line survey data slhow that 300,000 farm families in the
project area have benefited from the project. In 1990, the average rural per capita income
before the project in Sichuan, Chongqing and Hubei project counties was Y 240, Y 305
and Y 374, respectively. By 1995, due to the project the net per capita income (in
constant 1990 prices) increased to Y 561, Y 610 and Y 773. respectively, a doubling of
income in constant terms.
26.   Disseminating Research Results.  The project has had an impact through
disseminating research and experimental results to farmers through the provision of
suitable varieties of high quality seedlings and the provision of new cultural practices.
The nurseries not only provide seedlings to project farmers but also to farmers outside the
project areas. The project has set up a budwood registration program and established
virus-free zones. Only registered budwood could be propagated in the project area. Top-
grafting technology has been successfully adopted in the project area. This gives farmers
2Some orchards are owned by the CFDCs and operated commercially with contracted mangers who receive
incentive bonuses based on production and sales.



- 8 -
the ability to respond to market changes with new and better varieties, which they can
produce within two years.
27.   Government Recognition  The project was designated by MOA and by the
provincial governments as an excellent example of horticulture development. Several
orchard managements have received governmental awards. Project technicians provide
training not only to project staff and farmers but also to nonproject government staff and
farmers outside the project area. During the implementation period, the project area has
received more than a dozen state leaders such as Premier Li Peng, and Vice Premiers Zhu
Rongji and Jiang Chunyun. The project has also been visited by more than 1,000 study
groups, in total of about 20,000 peorie. The leaders were looking for a successful model
for land development, especially for the resettlement of farmers from the Three Gorges
area. The project area has already resettled 2,500 families displaced by the Three Gorges
Dam.
28.   Demonstration Impacts. The project already has had tremendous demonstration
effects. Large numbers of nonproject farmers now use technologies developed under the
project, including virus-free seedlings from the project nurseries. It appears that the
hectarage of new orchards developed by farmers outside the project area amounts to four
to five times that in project orchards. The demonstration effect for rehabilitated orchards
is about three times the area of project orchards. The poverty-alleviation impact of these
demonstration effects should be very substantial, since many of the orchards are located
in poor and remote areas, where options to raise incomes have in the past been very
limited.
29.   Integration of Production, Processing and Marketing. The project has played
a demonstrative role in realizing the integration of production, processing and marketing.
It has demonstrated that quality starts from production and is reinforced by effective
postharvest treatment. It has started a new era of more sophisticated marketing. The
project packing plants pay farmers differently by grade, then clean, wax and label the
fruit to make it ready for up-scale markets and exports. Some packing houses store them
for festive seasons and higher prices. With different varieties harvested at different times
of the year, citrus becomes available for marketing all year around.
30.   Reduction of Soil Erosion. The project has reduced soil erosion by promoting
the terracing of hilly land and by introducing vetiver grass to stabilize the soil. This
method of land development has been adopted in several locations along the Yangtze and
in the Three Gorges area. Reduction in soil erosion was reported in all project counties.
In an extreme example, the Jiangan County water conservancy bureau reported that
eroded acreage had been reduced from 48 percent in 1990 to 13 percent in 1995.
31.   Other Socioeconomic Benefits. Project investments have turned wasteland areas
into productive assets and have brought water, electricity and access roads to many
highland villages. These have produced a substantial general development impact in the
villages, reducing the burden of carrying drinking water by women, and in some cases,



- 9 -
providing additional village income through the stocking of irrigation pumping ponds
with fish. The requirement for manure induced significant additional pig production in
project villages. These development benefits are large but undocumented.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TIIE PROJECT
32.   Implementation Schedule. According to the SAR, the project was to be carried
out over a period of five and a half years, from June 1989 to December 1994 and closed
in December 1995. The project was delayed due to the Chinese domestic disturbances of
June 1989 and the Bank's subsequent decision to hold project processing. The project
was finally negotiated in March 19' J, signed on August 29, 1990 and made effective on
December 4, 1990, 18 months delay in all. The delay in credit approval affected the start
of land development, seedling production and planting of fruit trees.  The cost of
materials and labor was increased due to the unexpectedly high inflation rate, resulting in
higher costs for works. The project's closing was initially scheduled for December 31,
1995 but was granted a one-year extension to December 31. 1996.
33.   Shortage of Counterpart Funds. The majority of project sites are located in
poor counties with weak financial status. The lack of- adequate counterpart funds from
county governments affected implementation progress, especially during 1992, resulting
in slow development of orchards and construction of irrigation ponds and facilities.
Several meetings were held with local governments, which were eventually persuaded to
allocate the necessary scarce resources.
34.   Adjustment in the Design of Irrigation Facilities. Some adjustments in the
design of irrigation layout and facilities were made during the Mid-Term Review. The
SAR model called for irrigation ponds on hilltops and uphill pumping by stationary pump
stations. After site selection, there were a number of orchards where gravity irrigation
could be practiced from up-hill water sources, removing the need for investment in ponds
and pumps. In another proposal for adjustment, Sichuan proposed the use of mobile
diesel pumps, which had been successfully experimented with in the project area. These
diesel pumps can be moved from place to place in an orchard to give overall coverage
and can carry water from small water sources to either hand held hoses or sprinklers (3 or
4 to a pump). These modifications were reviewed and approved. The irrigation design
was changed so that 50 percent of the orchards were built in accordance with the SAR
model, 20 percent designed around uphill capture of water and 30 percent on mobile
diesel pumps. These modifications saved some funds, which were allocated for orchard
houses.
35.   ICB  Procurement For Irrigation Equipment  The irrigation equipment
procured through ICB caused about a year's delay in orchard planting, because together
the domestic bureaucratic review and approval and the Bank's review were a lengthy
process. There were further harmful delays due to the slow delivery of irrigation
equipment to the scattered project-site locations, resulting in some young seedlings not
receiving irrigation water during the hot, dry months of June-August. Since no foreign



- 10-
supplier submitted bids in the first procurement, NCB was later used to procure irrigation
equipment. The NCB procurements were done smoothly, and equipment was delivered
by 1995. Planting of trees and installation of irrigation facilities was finally completed in
June 1995.
36.   Credit Allocation. The reallocation of funds from equipment, materials and
supplies to works was approved in September 1994.  Two factors increased the
requirement for disbursement for works. These were higher-than-programmed cost of
materials and labor due to unexpectedly high inflation and fact that NCB works contracts,
which were used more than anticipated at appraisal, typically included materials that
would not have been included if tht works had been done by force account as originally
planned. If done by force account, the materials would have been paid through the
materials category.  The use of NCB contracts, therefore, necessitated a technical
reallocation of funds as follows: for Sichuan, SDR 3.64 million from category 2 to
category 1; for Hubei, SDR 2.17 million from category 5 to category 4 and for
Chongqing SDR0.15 million from category 8 to category 7. An increase was also
granted in the percentage of expenditure to be financed for work categories from 40 to 50
percent.
37.   Cost Overrun. Total expenditure at project completion was Y 869.6 million
(Sichuan Y 402.3 million, Chongqing Y 168.5 million and Hubei 298.8 million), which is
Y 151.4 million (20 percent) more that the Y 718 million estimated at appraisal. The
high inflation in China after 1990 caused substantial price increases in construction and
labor wages.  This resulted in higher contract awards after 1990.  The county
governments and farmers increased their contributions to cover the additional cost.
However, due to devaluation of the yuan against the dollar during the years of project
implementation, total project cost, when calculated in dollars was only $130.8 million, $6
million lesser than the SAR estimates.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.   The policy environment of the central and local governments has been and
continues to be favorable to the sustainability of the project.  The project has
demonstrated the utility of government policies for the development of the Three Gorges
area. Aside from the construction of the Three Gorges Dam, these were to plant high-
value fruit trees to diversify production and to pay special attention to the control of soil
erosion. MOA has drafted a new strategy paper for the commercialization of fruit
production throughout the country by the year 2010 based on this experience.
39.   Sichuan and Hubei Provinces and Chongqing Municipality all have a strong
commitment to ensure sustainability of the project. They realize that, even though the
project is at completion, their responsibility continues. The new orchards will continue to
need to be maintained at a high-quality level until they reach full production. Farmers
continue to need training in tree maintenance, harvesting and postharvest technologies.
For this reason, there is a need to provide strong technical support to farmers. Farmers



- Il -
will also continue to require timely and reliable provision of input supplies and CFDC
processing and marketing services. Thus, it will be necessary to retain qualified, trained
staff in the CFDCs.
40.   The provincial and municipal governments have developed operation plans in
consultation with the prefecture and county governments; these plans became effective
early this year. Under the plans, the governments would: (a) maintain the PMOs and the
FDCs, with some modifications in the distribution of staff among functions (more staff
for marketing in the FDCs and fewer for statistics and planning in the PMOs); (b) cancel
the Project Leading Group and the STC but assign their facilitative role to the Agriculture
Bureau, which will coordinate technical assistance to be available when needed;
(c) continue to pay the salaries of the fruit production technicians who are giving
instruction to farmers; and (d) provide operational budgets for the PMOs and the FDCs
until they become self-sustaining.
41.   Since the majority of orchards are owned and operated by farmers, the actual
work of orchard maintenance rests with them. There are high incentives to maintain the
orchards in order to earn additional income. Farmers in the rehabilitated orchards under
the project have typically contracted with technicians to give them advice and training on
a regular basis and have compensated them. The orchards owned by the CFDCs are
operated commercially, with contract mangers who receive incentive bonuses based on
production and sales. The market demand for quality fruit is strong, as expected during
project preparation.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
42.   IDA's perfornance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. The borrower appreciated "the Bank's conscientious work, scientific
attitude, full preparation and clear-cut mind for the goal which satisfied people in the
project area." (from borrower ICR). Project preparation was based on the feasibility
studies of Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing, which contained general objectives approved
by the State Council. The mission's main goals during project preparation were to
introduce new technologies, varieties and management systems in developing a project
for this poor area.  IDA's role was a catalyst to pool international and domestic
experience. The project has benefited greatly from research results from China, Spain
and the USA. It also benefited from the experience of advanced countries in commercial
citrus postharvest and marketing operations.  During project preparation, alternative
designs to include food processing options (i.e., juice, jams and preserves) were
thoroughly investigated but rejected due to excess capacity in China of such processing
plants and the urgent need to establish high-quality fresh-fruit markets. Appraisal was
carried out with a full team of specialists, and agronomic, financial and economic
viability were fully evaluated.
43.   In all, IDA carried out seven supervision missions of the project since 1990, at
least one each year. These missions visited project sites and farmers in inaccessible



- 12 -
areas, reviewed implementation progress, helped to resolve implementation problems and
provided technical advice at each step of project implementation. During the first three
years, the supervision missions contained, among others, irrigation engineers and
horticulturists to review the layout and design of the orchards and irrigation facilities and
to observe the establishment of nursery and orchard planting practices. After Year 4 the
mission contained an agroprocessing specialist to inspect the packing lines and provide
recommendations on plant layout, processing techniques and effluent treatment. During
the final year, a marketing specialist was in the mission to assist CFDCs to plan for
marketing.
44.   Supervision missions made significant contributions in the following areas:
(a) improvement in horticultural standards of both seedlings and cultural practices,
establishment of engineering standards for terracing, drainage and irrigation ("creating a
high tide for striving for excellent engineering work"-borrower ICR); (b) assistance to
the PMOs in solving the problem of insufficient counterpart funds and working capital;
(c) education of CFDC managers in how to commercialize their management and
operations; (d) stimulation of the FDCs to plan for accessing export markets; and (e) help
in arranging for TA and study tours. A Mid-Term Review was also conducted to
consider the reallocation of the remaining Credit and to assess the time needed to
complete the project.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
45.   The borrower actively participated in the project from identification through
implementation. Specialists from the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) carried out studies,
set technical standards and gave guidance on technical issues. MOA carried out its own
supervisions in cooperation with provincial staff and also participated in IDA supervision
missions.  Overall, the project received strong political and financial support from
provincial and local governments at all levels
46.   The performance of the project management offices (PMOs) was also highly
satisfactory. The project has been well managed, under the leadership of the JPMO with
good cooperation from the PMOs and the FDCs at all levels. Project farmers were
enthusiastic, hardworking and in many cases creative. Project staff are competent, well
trained, and committed to the project objectives. The project components were for the
most part implemented in line with the agreed implementation arrangements and
appropriate actions were taken to solve problems as they occurred. The supervisory role
of the project's STC contributed greatly to the high technical standards adopted by all the
orchards (the "4 Highs" motto of the project was developed). The coordinating role of
the JPMO in procurement, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, file management
and liaison with IDA contributed to the smooth implementation of the project.
47.   The borrower complied promptly and completely with the covenants prescribed in
the legal agreements. Half-yearly progress reports, audited project accounts, together
with the audit reports, were also regularly produced and received generally on time. The



- 13 -
project has a comprehensive record-keeping system, with all SOE receipts and contracts
kept in an orderly fashion.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
48.   The project's overall outcome is considered highly satisfactory. The project has
achieved its objectives with a high degree of sustainability. The overall economic rate of
return is very high at 40 percent, even higher than the already high appraisal estimate of
34 percent. The project has already played a large demonstration role in the development
of the Three Gorges area into fruit orchards.
49.   At full production, the project will produce 303,000 tons of citrus and 42,000 tons
of other fruits. At present, marketing is done collectively by farmers and through
CFDCs. The demand for quality oranges is high and all production has been and is
expected to continue to be sold after harvesting. The CFDCs which manage rehabilitated
orchards have already typically developed diversified distribution channels (institutions,
wholesalers) and initiated timely promotional and marketing campaigns through the
media, trade fairs, advertising on packages and missions to Hong Kong. Oranges from
the project area are sold in large Chinese cities and exported to Russia, Canada and Hong
Kong.
50.   A possible risk concerns the next five years, when orchards from nonproject
farmers are in full production. At this time the higher volume of citrus production may
affect prices and the markets. The CFDCs are aware of this possibility and are working
on establishing marketing networks and seeking to achieve early positions in quality
product markets.  The risk will be minimized if the quality is maintained, since
competition will be smallest in the highest-quality markets.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
51.   The future operation of the project will need to concentrate on orchard
maintenance, postharvest processing and marketing of the fruit.  The provincial
governments have produced operation plans that specify the continued responsibilities of
the PMOs and FDCs in the project. The PMOs will continue to be responsible for:
(a) production management to make sure that production standards are maintained;
(b) technical training for orchard maintenance; (c) disease and pest monitoring, control
and forecasting; (d) advice to farmers on fertilizer type and application and on irrigation
timing, frequency and volume; (e) maintenance of standard technologies and tools for
fruit picking; (f) information gathering for production projection; (g) maintenance of
project facilities such as irrigation facilities and roads; (h) collection of project household
data for conducting future performance audits of the project; and (i) in cooperation with
Bureau of Finance at each level, recovery of the Credit plus interest according to the
onlending agreements.
52.   The CFDCs will continue to (a) reliably provide necessary inputs to project
farmers, (b) operate packing lines installed under the project to provide farmers with



- 14-
quality enhanced packing, storage and transportation services, and (c) assist farmers in
marketing their products. The success of the CFDCs will depend on their ability to
develop marketing channels and procure farmers' production, their ability to develop
short, medium and long-term marketing strategies and establish direct linkages with large
domestic and overseas wholesalers. CFDC managers have started in this direction and
have already had some success. However, they require more training to acquire stronger
marketing and management skills and to develop specialized marketing management
strategies and financial mechanisms.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
53.   The project design to provide demonstration models for the development of waste
hilly lands into orchards has proved highly satisfactory The key lessons learned from the
project are summarized below:
(a)   Strong  research  and  scientific  bases drawn  from  domestic  and
international experience and the involvement of a science and technical
committee have been essential to the success of this project. This project
aspect is being used in the development of similar new projects in China.
(b)   Active roles of MOA, provincial and local governments and research
institutes in carrying out central government policy and cooperation
among these institutions contributed to smooth implementation and the
success of the project.
(c)    Staff in the implementation agencies should be drawn from technical
bureaus familiar with the technical details of the operation.
(d)   Participation of farmers with a sense of ownership from the beginning
made a big difference in how the project was implemented.
(e)   Adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds is a prerequisite to
smooth implementation of a project according to schedule; the lack of
counterpart funds inevitably leads to implementation delay and increases
in project cost.
(f)    More supervision missions should have been budgeted, in particular to
assist the PPMOs with procurement and disbursement problems.
Continued TA for marketing is needed to get marketing on a strong
footing.



- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial     Plartial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                X
Sector policies                           X
Financial objectives                                    X
Institutional development                 X
Physical objectives                       X
Poverty reduction                         X
Gender issues                                           X
Other social objectives                                 X
Environmental objectives                  X
Public sector management                                                              X
Private sector development                                                            X
B. Project Sustainability                   Likely             Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                        X
Preparation assistance                         X
Appraisal                                                             X
Supervision                                    X
D. Borrower Performance                  Hlighly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                            X
Implementation                                  X
Covenant compliance                                                    X
Operation (if applicable)                       X
E. Assessment of Outcome    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory        Highly
Unsatisfactory
x



- 16-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose               Year of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Shandong ADP                       The purpose of the project was to  1989      Completed
(Credit 201 7-CHA)                  assist in accelerating development
of coastal fisheries. intensify crop
and livestock production and to
help alleviate poverty
Second Red Soils Area Development   l'he project aims to increase     1994      On-going
Project                            production and productivity over
(Credit 2563-CHA)                   the "red soils" area of Southern
China. The project support water
conservation, rural electrification,
roads and irrigation, livestock and
aquaculture, agroprocessing,
research and extension
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                     Date planned                Date actual
Identification                         November 1987               November 1987
Preappraisal                            February 1989              February 1989
Appraisal                              June 1989                   June1989
Negotiations                            October 1989               March 1990
Board presentation                     December 1989               August 9, 1990
Signing                                                            August 29, 1990
Effectiveness                          November 27, 1990           December 4, 1990
Project completion                     December 31, 1994           December 31, 1995
Loan closing                            December 31, 1995          December 31, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMUlLATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate                  13         31        53        61         64        64
Actual                             8.9        19.1      37.1       50.6      59.5      69.0
Actual as % of adjusted estimate   68%        59%       70%       83%        93%      107.8%
Date of final disbursement       April 16,1997



- 17 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project       Key Implementation Indicators in    Unit        Estimated      Actual
Component           SAR/President's Report
Orchard Establishment
1. New Orchards
Sichuan           Mother-tree Garden                     ha            24            24
Polyhouse Nursery (60 houses)         ha             4             4
Citrus                                ha          4,624         4,624
Sweet Orange                          ha          1,794         1,794
Valencia                              ha          1,110         1,100
Navel                                 ha          1,530         1,530
Mandarin                              ha           100            100
Pomelo                                ha           100            100
Other Fruit                           ha          1,176         1,176
Lychee                                ha           900           754
Longan                                ha            94           240
Plum                                  ha            66            66
Loquat                                ha           116            116
Total Orchards                                         ha          5,800         5,800
Chonegine          Mother-tree Garden                    ha            26            26
Open Field Nursery                    ha            35            35
Citrus                                ha          2,060         2,060
Sweet Orange                          ha          1,260         1,260
Valencia                              ha           540           540
Navel                                 ha            60             60
Pomelo                                ha           200           200
Yellow Peaches                        ha           260           260
Total Orchards                                         ha          2,320         2,320
Hiiubi             Mother-tree Garden                    ha            70            70
Open Field Nursery                    ha            38.5          38.5
Citrus                                ha          2,699         2,994.7
Sweet Orange                          ha           966           708.4
Valencia                              ha           433           270
Navel                                 ha           800          1,262.7
Mandarin                              ha           500           753.6
Other Fruit                           ha          1,167          871.4
Yellow Peaches                        ha           567           311.7
Loquat                                ha           200            40
Plum                                  ha            67            120
Pear                                  ha           200           356.7
Kiwi                                  ha           133            43
Total Orchards                                         ha          3,866         3,866.1
II. Rehabilitated Orchards
Sichuan           Citrus                                 ha           500           500
Sweet Orange                          ha           140            140
Valencia                              ha           220           220
Navel                                 ha           140            140
Total Orchards                                         ha           500           500
Chongqing         Citrus                                 ha           240           240
Valencia                              ha           240           240



- 18 -
Project       Key Implementation Indicators in    Unit       Estimated      Actual
Component           SAR/President's Report
Yellow Peaches                        ha           100           100
Total Orchards                        ha           340          340
Hubei             Citrus                                ha          1,633         1,633
Sweet Orange                          ha         1,633         1,633
Total Orchards                        ha         1,633         1,633
Irrigation/l
1. New Orchards
Sichuan           Diesel Pump, HlHH & Sprinklers        ha           580          1,740
Electric Drip                         ha           20
Electric Pump, HHH & Sprinklers       ha         5,200         2,320
Gravity Irrigation                                  ha         1,740
Subtotal                              ha         5,800         5,800
Chongqing         Diesel Pump, HHH                      ha          1,846         1,924
Electric Drip                         ha            10
Electric Pump, Mini Sprinkler         ha          464           248
Gravity Irrigation                    ha           209.3
Subtotal                              ha         2,320         2,381
Hubei             Diesel Pump, HHH                      ha           386           486
Electric Pump, HHH                    ha         2,800         2,800
Electric Pump, Sprinkler              ha          580           580
Subtotal                             ha          3,766         3,866
11. Rehabilitated Orchards
Sichuan           Diesel Pump, HHH & Sprinklers         ha            50           160
Electric Pump, HHH & Sprinklers       ha          450           450
Subtotal                              ha           500          610
Chongqing         Diesel Pump, HHH                      ha           192           265
Electric Pump, Mini Sprinkler         ha            48           20
Subtotal                              ha          240           285
Hubei             Diesel Pump, HHH                      ha           163           163
Electric Pump, HHH                    ha         1,225         1,225
Electric Pump, Sprinkler              ha           245          245
Subtotal                             ha          1,633         1,633
111. Vetiver Planting
Sichuan           Nursery                               ha              I             I
Planting Out                          ha            10            10
Chongqing         Nursery                               ha              I             I
Planting Out                          ha            10            12
Hubei             Nursery                               ha              I            1
Planting Out                          ha            10            10
Road
1. New Orchards
Sichuan                                                 km           145           162



- 19 -
Project        Key Implementation Indicators in     Unit        Estimated        Actual
Component            SAR/President's Report
Chongqing                                                  km            162            175
Hubei                                                      km            436            436
Subtotal                               km            743            773
11. Rehabilitated Orchards
Sichuan                                                    km            145            162
Total                                               km            888            935
Packing and Storage Facilities/2
Sichuan            Install of Packing Lines-3t             unit           15              7
Install of Packing Lines-5t            unit            2
Construction for 3t lines              unit            15             7
Construction for 5t lines              unit             2
Storage Construction                  500m2             3             3
Chongqing          Install of Packing Lines-3t             unit             I             I
Install of Packing Lines-5t            Unlit            I             I
Construction for 3t lines              unit             I              I
Construction for 5t lines              unit             I             I
Storage Construction                  500m2             8             8
Hubei              install of Packing Lines-3t             unit            4              4
Construction for 3t lines              unit             4             4
Storage Construction                 8000m2             1             1
NVotes:  I.     Electric drip irrigation was replaced by gravity irrigation during mid-term adjustment.
2.      Sichuan dropped 5-ton packing line during mid-term adjustment.



- 20 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Key Implementation Indicators in     SAR Estimated                    Actual
SAR/President's Report
ERR Total Project                       34.4                          40.2
1. ERR
1. New Orchards                         32.1                          36.8
Citrus                               32.0                         38.0
-Sweet Orange                        28.4                         33.6
-Valencia                            33.8                         31.8
-Navel                               39.5                         46.7
-Mandarin                            25.9                         38.3
-Pomelo                              24.6                         27.4
Other Fruit                          34.2                         28.9
-Longan                              22.1                         29.0
-Lychee                              29.5                         33.2
-Loquat                             22.1                          22.4
-Yellow Peach                        44.8                         27.2
-Pear                                26.5                         26.6
-Plum                                33.4                         33.1
-Kiwi                                37.0                         28.8
2. Rehabilitated Orchards               48.7                          53.3
-Sweet Orange                        45.2                         48.5
-Valencia                            54.8                         56.7
-Navel                               62.7                         89.5
-Yellow Peach                        62.2                         60.1
lI. FRR
Sichuan
1. New Orchards
a. Nursery
-Polyhouse Nursery                   15.0                         42.3
-Mother Tree Garden                  31.0                         35.7
b. Citrus
-Sweet Orange                        24.0                         26.6
-Valencia                            23.0                         25.3
-Navel                               34.0                         32.8
-Mandarin                            23.0                         26.6
-Pomelo                              18.0                         33.5
c. Other Fruits
-Lychee                              23.0                         30.8
-Longan                              21.0                         30.0
-Plum                                27.0                         20.4
-Loquat                              24.0                         23.4
2. Rehabilitated Orchards
-Sweet Orange                        40.0                         41.5
-Valencia                            34.0                         40.0
-Navel                               56.0                         55.5



- 21 -
Key Implementation Indicators in     SAR Estimated                    Actual
SAR/President's Report
Chongqing
1. New Orchards
a. Nursery
-Open Field Nursery                 45.0                          56.4
-Mother Tree Garden                 30.0                         40.2
b. Citrus
-Sweet Orange                       25.0                          25.9
-Valencia                           25.0                          28.9
-Navel                              36.0                          35.4
-Pomelo                             19.0                          37.5
c. Other Fruits
-Yellow Peach                       33.0                          26.1
2. Rehabilitated Orchards
-Valencia                           47.0                         44.3
-Yellow Peaches                     71.0                         40.0
Hubei
I . New Orchards
a. Nursery
-Open Field Nursery                 59.0                         54.2
-Mother Tree Garden                 31.0                         29.1
b. Citrus
-Sweet Orange                       25.0                         26.2
-Valencia                           24.0                         34.1
-Navel                              35.0                          34.5
-Mandarin                           24.0                          28.7
c. Other Fruits
-Plum                               28.0                          27.0
-Loquat                             24.0                          27.5
-Yellow Peach                       34.0                         21.1
-Pear                               26.0                         26.2
-Kiwi                               21.0                         29.0
2. Rehabilitated Orchards
-Sweet Orange                       35.0                          38.1
III. Yield/Production                   ton/ha/ton
Sichuan
1. New Orchards
a. Citrus
-Sweet Orange                       30/53,820                     30/53,820
-Valencia                           27/29,700                     27/29,700
-Navel                              24/36,720                     24/36,720
-Mandarin                           27/2,700                      27/2,700
-Pomelo                             22.5/2,250                    22.5/2,250
b. Other Fruits
-Lychee                             11.25/10,125                  15/11,310
-Longan                             11.25/1,058                   15/3,600



- 22 -
Key Implementation Indicators in     SAR Estimated                   Actual
SAR/President's Report
-Plum                               24/1,584                      24/1,584
-Loquat                             15/1,740                      18/2,088
2. Rehabilitated Orchards/2
-Sweet Orange                       17/2,380                      17/2,380
-Valencia                           11/2,420                      14/3,080
-Navel                              16/2,240                      16.5/2,310
Chongqing
I. New Orchards
a. Citrus
-Sweet Orange                       30/37,800                     31/39,060
-Valencia                           27/14.580                     30/16,200
-Navel                              24/1,440                     27/1,620
-Pomelo                             22.5/4,500                   25/5,000
b. Other Fruits
-Yellow Peaches                     22.5/5,850                   25/6,500
2. Rehabilitated Orchards
-Valencia                           11/4,080                     24/5,760
-Yellow Peaches                     15.3/1,530                   22/2,200
Hubei
I. New Orchards
a. Citrus
-Sweet Orange                       30/28,980                     30/21,252
-Valencia                           27/11,691                    27/7,290
-Navel                              24/19,200                     25/3 1,568
-Mandarin                           27/13,500                     35/26,376
b. Other Fruits
-Plum                               24/1,608                     24/2,880
-Loquat                             15/3,000                      15/600
-Yellow Peaches                     22.5/12,758                  22.5/7,013
-Pears                              37.5/7,500                   37.5/13,376
-Kiwi                               22.5/2,993                    15/645
2. Rehabilitated Orchards/2
-Sweet Orange                       17/27,761                     17/27,761



- 23 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
During the project implementation, Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing conducted a variety of studies
related to orchard practice in the project, based on the Bank supervision missions recommendations. All
studies were financed by the government in each . Those studies have been done by the universities and
research institutes at provincial, prefecture, and county levels in the project provinces/municipality. Most
of the studies received awards from the various levels of the governments. The primary research topics are
following:
Study                                    Research Institute        Status
1.    Technology of Soil Improvement for New   Sichuan Academy of Ag.     Completed
Orchards                              Sciences
2.    Technology of Management and             Sichuan Academy            Completed
Application for Citrus Moisture          of Ag. Sciences           3rd Award
3.    Technology of Fast-growing Seedling of   Luzhou Hlorticulture Institute  Completed
Longan (Lychee)                                                  2nd Award
4.    Trial and Demonstration on Early Maturing   Northwest Agriculture   Completed
and High-yield of Navel Young Tree    University                 3rd Award
5.    Research on Technique and Application of    Sichuan Academy of Ag.    Completed
Storage and Reserve of Freshness for Sweet Sciences Horticul. Institute
Orange
6.    Technology and Application of Orange     Northwest Agricul. University Completed
Postharvest Treatment
7.    Research on Rotten Pathology of Navel and   Sichuan Agricultural    Completed
Prevention Method                     University                 3rd Award
8.    Tree Early Mature and High-yield of Lychee  Luzhou Horticulture Institute Completed
(Longan)
9.    Research and Experiment of Navel Young   SC Academy of Ag. Sciences, Completed
Tree for Early Maturing and High-yield  Horti. Institute
10.   Low-grafting to Citrus Fruit Trees for High    Hlubei Yichang Horticul.  Completed
Yield                                 Institute                  2nd Award
11.   Technology on High Yield of Citrus       Hubei Zhicheng & Zigui     Completed
Counties' Ag. Institutes   Ist Award.
12.   Support Technology on "Ten Thousand Mu"  HIubei Provincial          Completed
of High-yield and High-quality of Citrus    Horticulture Institute  2nd Award
13.   Extension of High-Yield Technology on "Fifty Hubei Provincial Horticulture Completed
Thousand Mu" of Citrus                Institute                  2nd Award
14.   Feasibility Study of Mid-Yangtze ADP     Chongqing                  3rd Award
15.   Terracing on Slopping Land               Chongqing                  Completed
16.   Breeding of Virus-free Seedling          Chongqing                  2nd Award
17.   Extension of Technology on Intercropping of Chongqing               Completed 3rd
Waternelon in Orchards                                           Award
18.   Extension of Top-grafting Technology for    Chongqing               Completed 1st
Rehabilitated Orchards                                           Award
19.   Extension of Planting Density Technology    Chongqing               Completed



- 24 -
TABLE 8A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
(Yuan million)
Item                      SAR Estimated            Actual/Latest Estimated
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Cost    Cost                Cost   Cost
A. Sichuan Province
1. Nursery and Mother Tree Gardens   1.3     1.0     2.3         2.7     2.0     4.7
2. Orchard Establishment           120.1    90.0   210.1       173.2   130.9  304.1
3. Orchard Rehabilitation            7.3     7.3    14.6         9.8     8.0    17.8
4. Postharvesting Facilities        12.1    17.7    29.8        15.4    24.2    39.6
5. Institutional Support             4.6     7.8    12.4         8.8    27.3    36.1
Subtotal Sichuan Province             145.4   123.8   269.2       209.9   192.4   402.3
B. Chongqing Municipality
1. Nursery and Mother Tree Gardens   1.5     1.2     2.7         2.4     1.4     3.8
2. Orchard Establishment            46.6    36.8    83.4        66.9    51.3   118.2
3. Orchard Rehabilitation            3.1     4.7      7.8        6.3     5.5    11.8
4. Postharvesting Facilities         6.1     5.4    11.5         4.2     6.0    10.2
5. Institutional Support             2.1     2.8      4.9       10.2    14.3    24.5
Subtotal Chongqing Municipality        59.4    50.9   110.3        90.0    78.5   168.5
C. Hubei Province
1. Nursery and Mother Tree Gardens   2.6     2.0     4.6         5.3     5.8    11.1
2. Orchard Establishment            73.1    58.4   131.5        87.4    96.4   183.8
3. Orchard Rehabilitation           14.5    20.3    34.8        19.7   36.5    56.2
4. Postharvesting Facilities         6.8     6.1    12.9        11.6    13.6    25.2
5. Institutional Support             3.2     3.4      6.6        9.7    12.8   22.5
Subtotal Hubei Province               100.2    90.2   190.4       133.7   165.1   298.8
Bast Cost               305.0   264.9   569.9       433.6   436.0   869.6
Physical Contingency                    6.6     7.4    14.0
Price Contingency                      71.7    62.6   134.3
Total Project Costs         383.3   334.9   718.2        433.6   436.0   869.6



- 25 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS IN $ MILLION
Item                       SAR Estimated              Actual/Latest Estimated
Local   Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total
Cost    Cost                  Cost    Cost
A. Sichuan Province
1. Nursery and Mother Tree Gardens      0.3     0.2      0.5         0.4      0.3      0.7
2. Orchard Establishment               25.4    19.1    44.5         26.2    19.8    46.0
3. Orchard Rehabilitation               1.5      1.5      3.0         1.5     1.2      2.7
4. Postharvesting Facilities            2.6      3.7      6.3        2.3      3.7      6.0
5. Institutional Support                1.0      1.7      2.7        1.3      4.1      5.4
Subtotal Sichuan Province                 30,8    26.2    57.0         31.7    29.1    60.8
B. Chongqing Municipality
1. Nursery and Mother Tree Gardens      0.3     0.3      0.6         0.3      0.3      0.6
2. Orchard Establishment                9.9      7.8    17.7        10.6      8.8    19.4
3. Orchard Rehabilitation               0.7      1.0      1.7         1.0     1.0      2.0
4. Postharvesting Facilities            1.3      1.1      2.4        0.5      0.9      1.4
5. Institutional Support                0.4      0.6      1.0        2.2      1.1      3.3
Subtotal Chongqing Municipality           12.6    10.8    23.4         14.6    12.1    26.7
C. Hubei Province
1. Nursery and Mother Tree Gardens      0.5      0.4     0.9         0.8      0.8      1.6
2. Orchard Establishment               15.5    12.4    27.9         12.7    14.0    26.7
3. Orchard Rehabilitation               3.1      4.3      7.4        2.8      5.3      8.1
4. Postharvesting Facilities            1.4      1.3      2.7         1.7     2.0      3.7
5. Institutional Support                0.7      0.7      1.4         1.4     1.8      3.2
Subtotal Hubei Province                   21.2    19.1    40.3         19.4    23.9    43.3
Bast Cost                  64.6    56.1   120.7          65.7    65.1   130.8
Physical Contingency                       1.4      1.6      3.0
Price Contingency                          7.1      6.1     13.2
Total Project Costs             73.1    63.8   136.9         65.7    65.1   130.8



- 26 -
TABLE 8C: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Item/Description             SAR Estimate                   Actual on Closing
Local   Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
1. Sichuan
IDA                        11.8    18.4     30.2                    31.0      31.0
Provincial Government                       24.6           2.1                 2.1
Prefecture Government                                      0.8                 0.8
County Government                                          6.0                  6.0
Agricul. Bank of China                                     0.2                  0.2
Beneficiaries                                14.0         19.2                 19.2
Subtotal                     11.8    18.4      68.8          28.3      31.0      59.3
11. Hubei
IDA                         8.6    13.3     21.9                    23.9      23.9
Provincial Government      16.9              16.9          1.1                  1.1
Prefecture Government
County Government                                          6.0                  6.0
Agricul. Bank of China                                     0.5                  0.5
Beneficiaries               9.6               9.6         10.4                 10.4
Subtotal                     35.1     13.3     48.4          18.0      23.9      41.9
111. Chongqing
IDA                        4.7      7.2      11.9                   14.9       14.9
Municipality Governmenlt    3.6               3.6          2.3                 2.3
Prefecture Government
County Government           5.6               5.6          4.3                  4.3
Agricul. Bank of China
Beneficiaries              6.3               6.3           8.8                  8.8
Subtotal                     20.2      7.2     27.4          15.4      14.9      30.3



- 27 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(1996 Yuan million)
Net Present Value (NPV) at 12%      Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
SAR Estimate  ICR Estimatc          SAR Estimate  ICR Estimate
Project as a whole               1,322.2         1,624.4                34.4            40.2
New Orchards                 1,084.6         1,290.5                32.1            36.8
Citrus                         877.2         1,180.6                32.0            38.0
Other Fruit                    207.2           109.9                34.2            29.0
Rehabilitated Orchards             237.6           357.5                48.7            53.3



- 28 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Present    Original         Revised     Description of covenant     Comments
Type      Status    fulfillment  fulfillment date
date
Credit        2.02b         I         C                                 Govemment to open and A special account was
maintain special account opened and maintained
by ABC
Project      Article III    I        NYD                                 Fumish Audit Report by  Audit Report for 1996 is
3.01 (bii)                                                 June 30 of each year.    expected by June 1997
Responsibility acceptable
to IDA
Project     Schedule 2      6         C                                  Project activities comply  The PEPBs have
1(a)                                                     with environmental    reviewed and approved
standards acceptable to  all project components
IDA
Project     Schedule 2      6         C       12/31/1990                 Monitoring effluents  The monitoring plan was
1(b)                                                     from agroprocessing    proposed in 1990.
facilities be established   Construction of effluent
by December 1990      treatment plants was
completed.
Project     Schedule 2      9         C                                  Agrochemicals be      All fertilizers and
I (c)                                                    approved by IDA        pesticides procured under
the project were
reviewed by IDA
Project     Schedule 2      9         C                                  Annual training program  IDA provided assistance
2                                                       be submitted to IDA by  in arranging several
Deeember 31 of each    study tours and reviewed
year and overseas     domestic and overseas
training and TA be    training programs
approved by IDA
Project     Schedule 2      2         C                                  Corporations be operated Fruit Development
3                                                       as financially         Corporations under the
independent entities and  project were financially
managed by competent  independent and have
staff with experience  competently staffed.
acceptable to IDA
Covenant Class:                                                                    Status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people                       C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not              CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9              NYD= not yet due
funds                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



- 29 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPIJTS
Planned               Revised                 Actual
Stage of Project Cycle  Weeks         $        Weeks        $         Weeks        $
Preparation to Appraisal    NA         NA       No change  No change     80.3      220,800
Appraisal                    "          "           "          "         22.2       67,300
Negotiations through         "          "           "          "          12.2      38,400
Board approval
Supervision                  "          "           "          "         82.5      288,500
Completion                   "                                            4.4       24,400
Total                                                          201.6      639,400



- 30 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating Lb
Stage of project    Month/   Number of    Days     Specialized staff    Imple-        Devel-        T ype of
cycle          year     persons    in field  skills represented La   mentation   opment        problems
status     objectives
Identification       10/87       4           17    A,AE,EN,E                S             S
Preparation          10/88        7         24    A, AE,IA,AI, OS,          S             S
Preappraisal         3/89         5          19    A,AE,IA,MKT.OS           S             S
Appraisal/           6/89         3          15    AE,AGOS                  S             S
Supervision 1        10/90       4           9     A,IA,M&E,OS              I             I      Deferred Board
Presentation
Supervision 2        7/91         3          8     A,AE,IA                   I            I      Counterpart funds
Supervision 3        5/92         2          13    A,lA                     I             I      Lower
Disbursement
Supervision 4        11/93        3          16    IA,AE,EN                  I            I      Procurement delay
Supervision 5        8/94         1          3     AE                       S            HS      Mid-term review
Supervision 6        9/95         4          9     AE,IE,AI,IA              S            HSS     Working capital
Supervision 7        5/96         3          7     IE,AI,OS                IIS           IIS
Completion           3/97         4          17    AE,AI,OS                 OIS          IIS
/a   A: Agriculturalist; AE: Agricultural Economist; Al: Agro-Industrial Specialist; E: Economist; EN: Engineer; IA: Irrigation
Engineer IE: Irrigation Economist; OS: Operations Specialist; M & E: Monitoring & Evaluation; MKT: Marketing
/b   Performance Ratings: I = problem free or minor problems. 2 = moderate problems, 3 = major problems, FIS = highly
satisfactory, S = satisfactory
TABLE 14: ROLE OF WOMEN IN PROJECT
Subproject        Women Engaged in           Participating            Women              Training Period
Project (%)             Number             Participating in       (Person month)
training (%)
Sichuan                         52                   109,200                  54                   86,496
Hubei                           65                   20,150                   62                  128,682
Chongqing                       54                   33,777                   56                   62,496
Note: Mid-Yangtze Agricultural Development Project has 303,000 persons participating in the project
implementation, of which 210,000 persons in Sichuan, 31,000 persons in Hubei and 62,000
persons in Chongqing. The project offered a variety of domestic training in various subjects
related to the project implementation and orchard technique and management.



- 31 -
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A Bank ICR mission for the above project visited project sites in Hubei and
Sichuan Provinces and Chongqing Municipality from February 27 to March 12, 1997 to
evaluate the status of the project at c ampletion and to review the project implementation
plan after its completion. The mission was composed of Mr. Gue (Agroprocessing
Specialist), Ms. Varkay (Marketing Specialist), Ms. Tong (Agricultural Economist) and
Ms. Jaisaard (mission leader). The mission visited project orchards, wholesale and retail
markets, and farmers in Zhicheng and Xingshan in Hubei, Wanxian, Kaixian and Fengia
in Sichuan, and Choushou and Jiangjin in Chongqing. Several meetings were held in
Wuhan, Chongqing and Chengdu with staff from the project management offices,
officials from government offices, and managers of Fruit Development Corporations.
Meetings were also held in Chengdu with project staff from Yibin, Luzhou and
Changning Counties, which the mission did not visit during this trip. The mission would
like to express its sincere thanks and appreciation to all government officials and project
staff for their assistance and hospitality during the mission's visit.
Project Status at Completion
2.    Status. The project has been implemented exceptionally well and has achieved
its physical targets for orchard development, orchard rehabilitation and construction of
postharvesting, and training facilities. The project has been well-managed, with good
cooperation among the Fruit Development Corporations (FDCs), the Project Management
Offices (PMOs) and farmers. All project orchards adopted high technical standards,
which were set by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). in cooperation with several fruit
research institutes, and coordinated by the project's Scientific and Technical Committee.
The orchards under the project have a very high visual impact for quality and technical
standard and can be singled out from a distance from among neighboring orchards. In the
new orchards, the trees are growing vigorously, and some of them have started bearing
fruit. Several new citrus varieties with different maturing dates were top-grafted on the
existing trees or planted in the new orchards.  The rehabilitated existing orchards
demonstrate clear evidence of success. Trees in these orchards have been top-grafted to
better varieties and the yields have more than tripled. The project has been designated by
the Central and by the Provincial Governments as an excellent example of horticulture
development. The orchards are used for technical study tours, and project staff on
occasion provide training to nonproject staff and farmers from outside the project areas.
3.    Farmers have already benefited significantly from the orchards. In the new
orchards, they have been receiving income from intercropping between the young citrus



- 32 -
trees and recently from initial fruit production. The income increases are even more
evident in villages adjacent to rehabilitated orchards, where many project farmers have
built new houses from income received from these orchards.
4.    The project has already had tremendous demonstration effects. Large numbers of
nonproject farmers have used technologies developed under project and virus-free
seedlings from the project's nurseries to develop their own land. It appears that new
orchards developed by farmers outside the project area are of equal quality and, in total,
amount to four to five times the project area. The demonstration effect for rehabilitated
orchards is about three times the area of project orchards. Incremental farm income from
these additional orchards is expectec, to be similar to the project orchards. The poverty
alleviation impact should also be very substantial since many of the orchards are located
in remote and poor areas where options to raise incomes are very limited.
5.    The SAR physical targets have been achieved as planned in all project locations.
In Sichuan, 4 ha of polyhouse nurseries, 24 ha of mother-tree gardens, 5,800 ha of new
orchards, 500 ha of rehabilitated orchard and 324 km of access roads have been
completed. In Chongqing, 35 ha of nurseries, 26 ha of mother-tree gardens, 2,320 ha of
new orchards, 340 ha of rehabilitated orchards and 175 km of access roads have been
completed. In Hubei, 39 ha of nurseries, 70 ha of mother-tree gardens, 3,866 ha of new
orchards, 1,633 ha of rehabilitated orchards and 436 km of access roads have been
completed. The physical accomplishments varied by county; however, when added up,
they represent 100 percent of the targets.
6.    Project Expenditures. Total expenditure at project completion was Y 869.6
million (Sichuan Y 402.3, Chongqing Y 168.5 and Hubei 298.8 million), which is
Y 151.4 (20 percent) more than the Y 718.2 estimated at appraisal. However, due to the
devaluation of yuan against dollar during the years of project implementation, total
project cost, when calculated in dollars was $130.8 million, $6 million lesser than the
SAR estimate.
7.    Financing.  IDA funds of SDR 48.6 million (equivalent to $64 million at
appraisal) increased in its value to $69 million at completion. The increase in IDA dollar
funds was allocated proportionally among the three project jurisdictions.  County
governments and farmers increased their contributions to cover the additional yuan cost
resulting from the 20 percent yuan cost overrun.
8.    Production. Project orchards commenced fruit production on a limited scale
between 1992 and 1995. In 1996 production reached 73,000 tons (43,50 tons from new
orchards and 29,50 tons from rehabilitated orchards). Of this, 35,20 tons was Jincheng,
11,50 tons navel, 15,00 tons Valencia, 10,60 tons manderin and 70 tons was pomelo. It is
expected that in the full production year of 2005, the project's production will reach
300,00 tons. It is estimated that increased production by nonproject farmers in the project
areas due to adoption of project seedlings and techniques will be another 150,00 tons by
the same year.



- 33 -
9.    Postharvest Facilities. Fruit packing stations have been constructed under the
project at 13 locations, and equipped with 3 t/h washing, waxing, grading and packing
lines procured by ICB from Roda of Italy. Orchard houses with small fruit storage areas
and either large fruit stores with natural or forced ventilation or refrigerated cold stores
have been constructed in all project counties. Harvesting knapsacks and plastic fruit
crates have been provided under the project, and at seven locations, the FDCs have
procured fork lift trucks.
10.   The first year of citrus trading for most FDCs was 1996. Citrus fruit washing,
waxing, grading and packing have been carried out at 10 of the 13 packing stations, with
a total of 6,860 tons processed in 19)6, and contracts for about 9,000 tons of packed fruit
have already been secured for 1997. Two additional packing lines are expected to start
operation in 1997 as project citrus production levels increase in the counties involved.
The stores and cold stores have also been used at most locations, albeit with relatively
small stored volumes at present, and plastic crates have been extensively used between
the orchards, stores and packing stations. Harvester knapsacks were procured in 1996,
and the orchards have commenced using them. The 1996 throughput of packed fruit,
mainly for export, is considered by the mission to be an excellent start for the first year of
operation.
11.   Issues Resolved. In line with earlier recommendations, the project has taken
action to resolve the FDC operational issues that were raised by Bank supervision
missions in 1995 and 1996 as follows:
(a)    The working capital requirements of the FDCs have been reestimated in
line with current costs and prices.  The PPMOs report that lending
agencies have recently been providing adequate funds to the FDCs for
working capital and that sufficient funds are available to increase fruit
procurement and processing throughput. Thus, working capital is no
longer a constraint for the FDCs.
(b)   Effluent treatment facilities (or connection to city sewage systems) have
been completed at all operational packing stations.
12.   The Changshou District in Chongqing Municipality has a washing, waxing,
grading and packing line, which was procured and installed under the project, but the
farmers in this District have opted to grow only pomelo in their orchards, and this fruit is
not suited to the packing lines. The PMO has not been successful in finding an
alternative location for the Changshou packing line, but this is not expected to be a long-
term problem. Since processing requirements are growing annually at most FDCs, and
some FDCs are already planning expansion of their processing requirements, they or
project counties that were not provided with packing lines may be interested taking the
equipment over the next two years. The Changshou unit needs to be properly protected
against corrosion while waiting transfer to a new FDC, and the PMO has been requested



- 34 -
to coat the metal parts with protective oil, such as Shell Ensis Fluid or WD40 (both
available from car repair garages), and to have the building made watertight.
13.   The earlier Bank missions recommended several remedial actions to reduce
transport losses and to achieve lower levels of transit fruit damage. Some of these have
been implemented. For instance, harvester knapsacks and plastic returnable trays have
been procured by the project and used in some locations to reduce harvesting damage to
the fruit. Some orchards have also made their own harvester knapsacks similar to those
provided under the project. This practice needs to be more widely used in all project
orchards.
14.   Fruit should be cooled within 36 hours of harvesting to retain optimum condition
during transportation. Orchard houses with ventilated storage rooms have now been
completed at most orchard locations, and storage sheds with forced ventilation and
project cold stores, have now been commissioned. This should help to reduce spoilage of
fruits in transit to acceptable levels. Guidelines on fruit cooling and storage will be sent
by the Bank mission to the Joint PMO (JPMO) for distribution to the FDCs.
15.   Fruit should preferably be washed, waxed, and packed within 36 hours of
harvesting to retain optimum fruit quality, even if the fruit is to be stored in a cool room
or cold store. This is now being achieved in some FDCs, as the washing, waxing,
grading and packing lines have been put into operation. However, some fruit is still
graded and packed manually in the orchards, mainly for export to Russia. The FDCs are
making progressively more use of the project packing lines, and untreated packed fruit is
likely to be eliminated in the next two years, especially since Russian buyers are now also
requiring fruit to be waxed.
16.   When rough road transportation is expected, the fruit should be layered in the
packing cases with soft cardboard interlayer sheets to protect it. The design of packing
cases has now been finalized at some FDCs, and those seen at the packing sheds would
be adequate to protect the fruit under mildly rough road conditions. Soft interlayers will,
however, be necessary at other locations where road conditions remain very rough.
17.   Fruit spoilage in rail wagons during test marketing was reported to be a serious
problem in 1995 with 30 percent losses in transit from the packing centers to the
metropolitan centers. The journey time was about 10 days in closed wagons with little
ventilation. Losses have reportedly been reduced but remain at about 5 percent to 10
percent in some cases. There is little than can be done to improve this situation as the rail
wagons and journey times are not within the control of the FDCs. The highway
infrastructure in this region is rapidly improving, however, and within two years, rail
transport may be significantly reduced in favor of fast road transport on the new
highways. The Three Gorges Dam project will also significantly improve river transport
from most project areas within the next ten years. Over a period of time, rail transport
will probably no longer be a problem.



- 35 -
18.   Fruit drying temperatures on the waxing machines, have been set higher than
necessary at some locations, causing the surface of the waxed fruit to be warm when
packed. Since most of the fruit is not being sent directly to cold stores, this reduces the
keeping quality of the fruit. The FDCs have been advised to reduce the flow of wax at
the spray heads; which should be just sufficient to fully wax the fruit, and to reduce the
drying temperature; which should be just sufficient to dry the fruit. Excessive heating
would thereby be avoided. Guidelines on the operation and maintenance of fruit packing
lines will be sent by the Bank mission to the CPMO for distribution to the FDCs.
19.   Financial Viability of Packing Lines. Some FDCs expressed concern that the
break-even point on the packing lines and stores will take several years to achieve. A
financial analysis was therefore carried out using actual investment costs, and current
operational costs and selling prices. This indicates that processing 3,300 tons/year of
citrus fruit would produce a FRR of 12 percent; 4,500 tons/year would produce a FRR of
20 percent. This is 1 10 to 150 days processing a year, and should be within the reach of
the more active FDCs during the 1998 harvest season. One FDC is already confident of
achieving more than 250 days processing per year at full production.
20.   Fruit Quality Tests. Several of the FDCs that are processing navel oranges have
reported that the keeping quality of the washed, waxed, graded and packed fruit is very
limited, possibly due to fruit bruising. The PMO has been requested to carry out some
controlled tests to establish the cause of this. During the tests the PMO will ensure:
a) that harvesting technique is correct; b) that fruit is carried in knapsacks and plastic
crates and transported to the packing plant without damage to the fruit; c) that fruit is
processed within 36 hours of picking; d) that the temperatures are correctly set on the
drying system and that waxed fruit is dry before packing; and e) that for each ton of fruit
processed, one box of unprocessed fruit is hand packed and kept as a control sample
during the testing period. If the processed fruit does not keep significantly better than the
control sample, then the equipment manufacturers should be called in by the PMO to
modify their process.
21.   Packing Charges. The FDCs have started packing fruit for nonproject farmers,
and have been charging very little for this service. The FDCs have been advised that
packing costs are approximately Y 580 per ton packed, excluding packing cases, at plants
where lesser than 2,000 tons/year is being processed. This decreases to Y 420 per ton
packed at full operating capacity of around 6,500 tons/year. Charges for this service
should be increased to ensure a small profit on this operation:
22.   Fork Lift Trucks. The 1995 supervision mission recommended that the petrol
fork lift trucks procured by Sichuan PPMO for their fruit packing stations should be
changed for electric trucks of a smaller capacity. The exhaust fumes and large physical
size of the present units make them unsuitable for operation in the enclosed and confined
spaces of the packing stations.  The PMO  has not yet found suitable electric
replacements, but is actively following up this matter.



- 36 -
Marketing
23.   County FDCs (CFDCs) were set up under the project to carry out initial orchard
development, to provide quality enhanced packing, storage and transportation services
and to assist farmers in marketing their products. The CFDC staffs are composed of
technicians and marketing personnel. The CFDC technicians are doing very well. They
have been trained to carry out effective and comprehensive extension programs and
undertake systematic training for farm managers and farmers. The marketing staffs are
operating at an early processing stage and need further training in best marketing
practices.
24.   CFDC managers fall into two categories:  (a) those managing rehabilitated
orchards and (b) those managing new orchards. The former have already typically
developed diversified distribution channels (institutions, wholesalers) and initiated timely
promotional and marketing campaigns through the media, trade fairs, advertising on
packages and missions to Hong Kong. They would benefit from training in specialized
marketing management strategies (such as dual-brand management) and training in
financial mechanisms (particularly export-finance and insurance). CFDC managers of
new orchards coming into production require training to acquire significantly stronger
general marketing and management skills so that they can effectively develop market
channels and procure farmer production. CFDCs will have to prove that they can develop
wider and more lucrative market networks than farmers themselves and thus give farmers
an incentive to sell through them. CFDCs' present plans are to procure about 80 percent
of farmers' production. Farmers are currently enjoying relatively high prices due to
domestic scarcity of supply and can therefore choose to bypass the CFDC marketing
channel during the peak harvesting season. However, once production supplies increase -
within the next three years-farmers will turn increasingly toward an existing
institutional structures with proven market contracts for production absorption-be it
their own CFDC, a larger wholesale market or a rival, more competitive CFDC.
25.   CFDCs need to develop short, medium  and long-term  market strategies,
establishing direct linkages with: (a) large domestic wholesalers servicing major urban
consumer outlets and institutional buyers such as hotel chains; (b) regional retail chains in
large cities (Wuhan, Chongqing, Shanghai, Guandong and Beijing), both domestic or
foreign-owned; (c) trading corporations with overseas wholesale, institutional and retail
networks; and (d) large overseas retails chains. Within this context, the mission has
introduced the JPMO and the PPMOs to several international and domestic wholesale
food chains, which have expressed interest in the project's citrus production, and
requested them to actively follow up these contacts.
Operation Plans After Project Completion
26.   The mission emphasized that governments at all levels need operation plans for
the next several years. The mission pointed it out that even though the project is at
completion, the challenging work has just begun. The new orchards will continue to need



- 37 -
to be maintained at high quality until reaching full production. Farmers continue to need
training in tree maintenance, harvesting, and postharvesting technologies.  For this
reason, there is a continuing need to provide strong technical support to farmers. Farmers
will also continue to require timely and reliable provision of input supplies and
processing and marketing services from the CFDCs. Thus, maintaining CFDCs with
qualified trained staff will be necessary.
27.   With these requirements in mind, the draft operation plans were provided by the
governments of each jurisdiction. Under the plans, the governments would: (a) maintain
the PMOs and the FDCs, with some modifications in the distribution of staff among
functions (more staff for marketing in the FDCs and fewer for statistics and planning in
the PMOs); (b) cancel the Project Leading Group and STC but assign their facilitative
role to the Agricultural Bureau to coordinate technical assistance and to be called on
when needed; (c) continue to pay the salaries of the fruit production technicians who are
giving instruction to farmers; and (d) provide operational budgets for the PMOs and for
the FDCs until they become self-sustaining.. The operation plans also specify the PMOs'
responsibilities for production management, technical training, orchard maintenance,
financial management, record keeping, file management, provision of market
information, environmental monitoring, and production of evaluation indicators and
collection of necessary data. Operation plans are necessary at lower levels as well. The
mission discussed the county operation plans at each project site visited.
28.   The mission reviewed the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
provided by the Joint Project Management Office (JPMO). The report is long and cover
almost all aspects of the project. However, we would like it to be strengthened in several
areas such as: (a) references to changes after the mid-term review; (b) procurement
information; (c) project impact, especially the demonstration effect of the project in each
province; (d) inclusion of project management objectives, achievements, problems
encountered and resolved; and (e) expansion on the report section on lessons learned. We
are looking forward to the revised version of this report.
March 12, 1997
Chengdu, Sichuan
China



-38 -                      ANNEX B
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
SUMMARY ASSESSMENT
1.    The World Bank approved the Mid-Yangtze Agricultural Development Project
with Credit No. "Cr. 2172 - CHA" on August 29, 1990. From the project preparation to
implementation until closing of accoants, the World Bank had made a great achievement
in good scientific project design with some innovation and project implementation. The
Bank's supervision missions have worked very closely with JPMO (under MOA) and
PPMO (provincial/municipality level) to provide valuable recommendations to project
construction and assistant to solve problems during the project implementation.
Specially, the World Bank made a proper adjustment during the mid-term review. In
addition, after the project closed, the Bank is still concern about future operation,
especially in fruit marketing.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The Objective was to make full use the natural resources, to improve ecological
condition in the upper and mid-Yangtze river areas, and to develop commercial
production base of high-quality fruits with majority of orange (eighty percent). It also
aimed to develop a demonstration model for applying virus-free seedling and registration
system in orchards. The project would promote rural economic development, and
improve the ecological condition along Yangtze River areas as well as increase income
for low-income farmers.
3.    The project included 33 counties (city) in Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing City.
The main features of the project were as follows:
(a)   building 75.5 ha of virus-free seedling nurseries;
(b)   building 120 ha of improved budwood (mother tree) garden;
(c)   establishment of 11,986 ha of new orchards on the hilly waste land,
rehabilitate 2,473 ha of low-yield orchards. All orchards were equipped
with irrigation facilities, access roads and orchard working house;
(d)   introduce 23 postharvest treatment lines in major orange production areas;
(e)   build 9,000 m2 of storage facilities;



- 39 -                      ANNEX B
2
(f)   build 33,900 m  of training center to provide training in project
management and orchard management, such as adapting scientific research
results, marketing, and technical extension;
(g)   supply communication facilities and other office equipment to strengthen
the marketing ability of the Fruit Development Corporations (FDCs) at all
levels;
4.    The project expected to reach higher yield through virus-free seedling and
advanced orchard practice than traditional orchard management. The annual project
production from new orchards was c ipected to reach 256,880 tons of citrus and 48,215
tons of other fruit (at full production in about 10 years). Incremental annual production
from rehabilitated orchards would be 40,340 tons of citrus. and 1,500 tons of other fruit.
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND OtUTCOME
5.    All targets of the project have been reached at the project completion:
(a)   Physical results: establishment of seedling nurseries, mother tree garden,
and new orchards with complete set of irrigation facilities, roads and
various construction work, have been completed by 100 percent.
(b)   Financial results: the actual project investment costs were 5 percent less
than the SAR estimate in US dollars, while they were 22.2 percent excess
in RMB. The financial analysis indicated that FRR for new orchards of
citrus, lychee, longan, pears and kiwi fruits in the two provinces and one
city was higher or equal to the SAR estimate, while FRR for new orchards
of plum and loquat in Hubei and yellow peaches in Chongqing and Hubei
were slightly lower than the SAR expected.
(c)   Economic analysis: ERR of the entire project was 41 percent (Sichuan
40.4 percent, Chongqing 42 percent, Hubei 41 percent), of which ERR for
new orchards was 37 percent (Sichuan 37 percent, Chongqing 40 percent
and Hubei 52 percent), all higher than the SAR estimate.
6.    The project has already created good social benefits, which have shown in the
following two respects: first, a significant increase in beneficiaries' income has been
made. According to the typical farmer household survey data, in 1995, the project
households with an annual net income of less than 500 yuan in 1990 increased their
income by 16.2 times, while the nonproject households with same level of income only
increased by 1.5 times; poverty alleviation process with the project was speed up 14.7
timers higher than otherwise. Most of project households make 1,000 yuan per year more
than before, it was 615 yuan on average in 1990 and increases to maximal 8,049 yuan in
1995. Another social benefit of the project was the demonstration role of the project
models. Reclamation of hillsides and terracing for improving ecological environment
was also showing the best performance in practice. 'I'he data provided by the Jiangan



-40 -                      ANNEX B
county indicated that the water and soil erosion was reduced from 48 percent in 1990 to
13 percent in 1995.
The Key Factors Affecting the Project:
7.    The major unfavorable factors affecting the project start up were: Due to reasons
beyond the control by the project at that time, the World Bank postponed the approval
date leading to delaying of the Bank's loan disbursement. The establishment of the
seedling nursery for new orchards was therefore delayed too. The project costs increased
due to the inflation; and the prices of part of the materials procured through ICB was a
bit higher than estimates. The arri /al of the materials was not on time, and caused
construction slow down; the borrowers borne higher foreign currency risk due to a
depreciation of the Chinese currency. In addition, high temperature, drought, flooding,
low temperature and hails all hindered trees' growth, the flowering and fruit bearing.
8.    However, with the governments' support and good coordination among various
sectors, the project management offices with qualified personnel effectively use
monitoring and evaluation system and technical assistance, plus an active participation of
the beneficiaries, and the excellent supervision and instructions by the World Bank
Mission, the project still made great progress and the unfavorable factors were
minimized.
C. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE OPERATION
9.    The major experience drawn from successful implementation of the project is as
following:
(a)   Government strong support: the governments at various level strongly
supported the project in terms of making favorable policies, providing
counterpart funding, coordinating among government departments.
(b)   High technical standard of the project: a number of studies and research in
orchard establishment and management were carried out under the project.
These studies have been done by national, provincial, prefecture, and
county research institutes and agricultural universities in Sichuan, Hubei,
and Chongqing. Also, scientific and technical committees (STC) from
provincial level to county level were established under the project. The
STC was responsible for setting technical standard, providing technical
advice and solve problems in the production practice. There is a complete
set of regulation (including award and punishment) for orchard
management and project management.
(c)   Effective project management: the PMO at all levels are functioning well
in monitoring and evaluation of the project, organizing training to PMO
staff, technicians, and farmers, and record keeping. In addition, the PMO



- 41-                      ANNEX B
made a good coordination with the World Bank supervision missions to
make suggestions and provide assistance to the orchards.
(d)   The major risk of the project is the exchange rate in repayment of the loan,
and natural disasters.  The latter can be reduced through project
implementation and technology. The former depends on the borrowers'
adaptability in self development. But this common question is beyond the
ability of evaluation staff.
10.   For the  future  operation, the  various project offices in  the  project
provinces/municipality have developed "Project Operation Plan" which includes
operation objectives, technical measures, management system, sales plan, market
development, fund preparation, personnel training, target monitoring and evaluation
system, method and reporting (including full development evaluation arrangement). The
operation plan made by the various project offices were all approved by their respective
governments. If the plan is carried out properly, it will be in good result.
l l.   With a favorable policy environment and government support, and high technical
standard of orchard management, the PMOs continue to be in charge of the project
operation with a focus on orchard maintenance and fruit marketing. The project would
have sustainable development.
May 14, 1997



-42-                         ANNEX C
ANNEX C: PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT AREAS
Land Before the Project
Land Terracing and Irrigation Pond (Reservoir)



-43-                          ANNEX C
tN~~~~~~~~-
Ad~~~-
The Project's Happy Farmers
,ss"'         ,                                             4 
MIN,
Yuan Liang, Rehabilitated Orchard



-44-                          ANNEX C
Top Grafting with Navel Orange
Navel in Season after 2 years



-45-                           ANNEX C
r~ ~~~           Fame' Ne  Homew -
MAC
777t
. , New Orcha     'd
Hulog Ne  Orchard









IMAGING
Report No.:          16632
Type:      ICR



