Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2172 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Mid-Yangtze Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 29, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2172 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Sichuan Province (Sichuan), Hubei 
Province (Hubei) and Chongqing Municipality (Chongqing) in Sichuan with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
Sichuan, Hubei and Chongqing the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
Sichuan and Hubei;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section l.Ol. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, Sichuan 
and Hubei of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Corporations" means fruit development corporations at provincial, 
municipal and county levels which have responsibility for assisting in implementation 
of the Project;
(c)
"ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized banking institution 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2 02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"ha" means hectare;
 
(f)
"km" means kilometer; and
 
(g)
"Joint Project Management Office", means the joint project management 
office located in Beijing, with representatives of Sichuan, Hubei, Chongqing and 
Ministry of Agriculture, referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent
to forty-eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR48,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
Page  3
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2000 and ending April 15, 2025. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2010, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Provinces to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Provinces therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the Credit the 
equivalent of twenty-two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR22,800,000) to Sichuan, sixteen
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDRl6,700,000) to Hubei, and 
nine million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR9,100,000) to Chongqing, 
Page  4
in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause Chongqing to carry out Part C of the Project in 
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule l to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) of the Project shall be carried out by each Province 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Either of the Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that either of the Provinces will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the charters establishing the Corporations shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Corporations to perform any of its roles under the 
Project.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Corporations or for 
the suspension of its operations,
without prior consultation with the Association.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement; and
 
(b)
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement have 
been entered into between the Borrower and Chongqing.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
Page  5
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each Province, and is legally binding upon each 
Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
l.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Sichuan
(1) Works                      6,300,000        40%
(2) Equipment,                16,040,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                               expenditures,
    supplies                                    100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3) Technical                    460,000        100%
    assistance
    and training
                              __________
         SUBTOTAL             22,800,000
Hubei
(4) Works                      4,100,000        40%
(5) Equipment,                12,370,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                               expenditures,
    supplies                                    100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(6) Technical                    230,000        100%
    assistance
    and training
                               _________
         SUBTOTAL             16,700,000
Chongqing
(7) Works                      1,950,000        40%
(8) Equipment,                 6,920,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                               expenditures,
    supplies                                    100% of local
                                                expenditures
Page  7
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(9) Technical                    230,000        100%
    assistance
    and training
                              __________
         SUBTOTAL              9,100,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                48,600,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR4,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after June 15, 1989.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase fruit production in low 
income areas; (ii) to strengthen research and extension services; (iii) to improve 
fruit quality and increase value at the orchard level; (iv) to establish commercially 
effective fruit marketing corporations; (v) to alleviate poverty; and (vi) to provide 
a replicable model for other fruit production areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sichuan Province
 
l.
Construction of about 4 ha of green houses and about 24 ha of mother-tree 
orchards for seedling production, establishment of about 5,800 ha of orchards for 
citrus, lychees, longans, plums and loquats, and the rehabilitation of about 500 ha of 
existing citrus orchards, all equipped with irrigation facilities and roads.
2.
Establishment of about 17 packing lines to improve fruit quality as well as 
establishment of storage facilities and the provision of transportation to improve 
marketability of fruit.
3.
Strengthening of marketing capabilities of the Corporations through the 
provision of equipment and communications systems.
4.
Strengthening of fruit research and extension capabilities of Project staff 
through training and technical assistance.
Part B:
Hubei Province
 
Page  8
1.
Construction of about 40 ha of open field nurseries and about 70 ha of 
mother-tree orchards, establishment of about 4,000 ha of orchards for citrus and plum, 
loquats, yellow peach, pear and kiwi
as well as the rehabilitation of about 1,600 ha of citrus and yellow peach orchards, 
all equipped with irrigation facilities and roads.
2.
Establishment of about 4 packing lines to improve fruit quality as well as the 
establishment of storage facilities and the provision of transportation to improve 
marketability of fruit.
3.
Strengthening of marketing capabilities of the Corporations through the 
provision of equipment and communications systems.
4.
Strengthening of fruit research and extension capabilities of Project staff 
through the provision of training and technical assistance.
Part C:
Chongqing Municipality
 
1.
Construction of about 35 ha of open field nurseries and about 26 ha of 
mother-tree orchards, establishment of about 2,400 ha of orchards for citrus and 
yellow peach and the rehabilitation of about
340 ha of citrus and yellow peach orchards, all equipped with irrigation facilities 
and roads.
2.
Establishment of about 2 packing lines to improve fruit quality as well as the 
establishment of storage facilities and the provision of transportation to improve 
marketability of fruit.
3.
Strengthening of marketing capabilities of the Corporations through the 
provision of equipment and communications systems. 
4.
Strengthening of fruit research and extension capabilities of the Project staff 
through the provision of training and technical assistance.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (9) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
Page  9
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  10
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
