Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 4805 KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(North-South Electricity Transmission Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
JOINT STOCK COMPANY “KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID 
OPERATING COMPANY” 
 
Dated                                           , 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4805 KZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated                                    , 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JOINT 
STOCK COMPANY “KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING 
COMPANY” (the Borrower or KEGOC). 
WHEREAS (A) The Republic of Kazakhstan (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
Parts A and D of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (EBRD) a loan in an amount approximately six million Dollars 
($6,000,000) (the EBRD Loan) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
EBRD (the EBRD Loan Agreement);  
(D) 
the Borrower intends to contract from Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
(DBK) a loan in an amount approximately fifty three million four hundred thousand 
Dollars ($53,400,000) (the DBK Loan) to assist in financing of Parts B and C of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and DBK (the DBK Loan Agreement); and 
(E)  
Pursuant to Section 9.03(b) of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank” dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004) and incorporated by reference into this Agreement, the Borrower has 
agreed to ensure that any lien granted to EBRD or DBK to secure the EBRD loan or the 
DBK loan will equally and ratably secure the Loan. 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the 
Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in 
the use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal 
set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required 
to be consistent with such policy of the Bank. 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, adopted by the Borrower on July 4, 2005, describing the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring, and institutional measures under the Project and referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“KEGOC” means the Joint Stock Company “Kazakhstan Electricity Grid 
Operating Company”, a legal entity established pursuant to a Decree of the Government 
Page  4
-
3
-
of the Guarantor No. 1188 dated September 28, 1996, and existing under the laws of the 
Guarantor, and includes its successors and permitted assignees; 
(d) 
“Project Management Department” means the project management 
department established pursuant to the Borrower’s  Resolution dated May 27, 1999, for 
managing activities under the Bank’s Loan (Loan Number 4526 KZ) for the Electricity 
Transmission Rehabilitation Project, which will be responsible for the managing of 
activities under Parts A and D of the Project; 
(e) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the project implementation plan 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said plan may be amended 
from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank; 
(f) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 21, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Parts 
A
and D of the Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 
eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of Parts A and D of the Project implementation; 
and 
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and D of the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollar for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
Page  6
-
5
-
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A  and D of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
public utility, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and D of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Parts A and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A and D of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the da
te of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of Parts A and D of the Project objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank) audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
Page  8
-
7
-
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank
 
,
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.03.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the audit fiscal year 
immediately preceding, the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month (12) 
period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.2 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any 
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred. 
(b) 
If any projection shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirement
s
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03 for the Borrower’s fiscal years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order 
to meet such requirements. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of KEGOC maturing 
by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of KEGOC’s rates in 
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though 
they were not in effect during the twelve-month (12) 
period to which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
power purchase costs, fuel costs, administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
Page  10
-
9
-
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable  
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 4.04.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(i) produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less 
than twenty percent (20%) for the Borrower’s fiscal year 2006 and in each succeeding 
fiscal year of the average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to 
be incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and the next following year; and (ii) 
maintain beginning with the fiscal year 2006, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities 
of not less than 1.4.  
(b) 
If any projection shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 4.04 for the Borrower’s fiscal years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order 
to meet such requirements. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer deposits and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, net non-operating 
income and any reduction in working capital other than 
cash; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
power purchase costs, fuel costs, administration, 
Page  11
-
10
-
adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges and income taxes), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
outflows other than capital expenditures, increase in 
working capital other than cash. 
(ii) 
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year. 
(iii) 
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve (12) months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and 
prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next fiscal year. 
(iv) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve (12) months, 
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
(v) 
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations, averaged over a three (3) year 
period covering the year concerned and the year preceding and 
the year succeeding such year. 
(vi) 
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 
Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall not grant new tariff discounts on transmission 
services except for those that are based on commercial considerations of the Borrower.  
In no case shall discounted services be provided for transmission volumes which will 
either displace higher-revenue volumes or require new investments in transmission 
capacity.  
Section 4.06.  The Borrower shall provide non-discriminatory third-party access 
to the North-South transmission line, including access to export-and international transit-
Page  12
-
11
-
related transmission services, based on published tariffs, applicable to all customers, and 
to be applied fairly and without discrimination between customers. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and public utility practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility 
practices; and 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 (a) 
The EBRD Loan Agreement or the DBK Loan Agreement, as the case 
may be, shall have failed to become effective by August 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for 
Parts A, B and C of the Project  are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EBRD Loan or the DBK Loan, as the case may be, made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
Page  13
-
12
-
in part, pursuant to the terms of the EBRD Loan 
Agreement or the DBK Loan Agreement, as the case 
may be; or 
(B) 
the EBRD Loan or the DBK Loan, as the case may be, 
shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-maturing is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
Parts A, B and C of the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b)(i)(B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  14
-
13
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Joint Stock Company “Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company” 
 
7
Bogenbay Batyra Street, 
Astana 010000 
 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
 
7
(3172) 970159  
 
 
 
7 (3172) 970455 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
JOINT STOCK COMPANY “KAZAKHSTAN 
 
ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY” 
 
By  
 
Authorized Representative
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan  
Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
For Parts A and D 
of the Project 
 
(1) Goods and Works 
 
(2)  Consultants’ Services 
 
99,500,000 
 
500,000
100% 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL 100,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred 
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and consulting 
services not subject to the Bank's Prior Review, as stipulated in the Procurement Plan,  
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to ensure that business enterprises and 
households in Southern Kazakhstan have access to reliable, cost effective and high 
quality supply of electricity; and (ii) to support regional integration with respect to 
optimizing the use of energy resources through international electricity trade. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Construction of 500 kV Single Circuit Overhead Transmission Line 
Construction of new 475 km 500 kV single circuit overhead electricity 
transmission line from substation 
“Ekibastuz” (1150/500 kV) to substation “Agadyr” 
(500 kV), including a fiber optic communication line. 
Part B
:
Extension/Modernization of 1150/500 kV “Ekibastuz” Substation
Extension of substation “Ekibastuz” (1150/500 kV) by three (3) bays and 
installation of three (3) shunt reactors to accommodate the new 500 kV link with the 
“Agadyr” substation, including installation of circuit breakers, disconnect switches, 
current transformers, voltage transformers, substation automation and protective relaying, 
and a power line carrier. 
Part C
:
Extension/Modernization of 500 kV “Agadyr” Substation
Extension of substation “Agadyr” by six (6) bays and installation of three (3) 
shunt reactors to accommodate the new 500 kV link with the “Ekibastuz” (1150/500 kV) 
and “YuKGRES” substations, including installation of circuit breakers, disconnect 
switches, current and voltage transformers, substation automation and protective relaying, 
and a power line carrier.  
Part D
:
Technical Assistance
Provision of consultants’ services for: (i) procurement and management of the 
construction of 500 kV transmission line from substation “Ekibastuz”
 
(1150/500kV) to 
substation “Agadyr”; and (ii) further reform of the electricity transmission sector. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning April 15, 2011 
  
 
through April 15 2022 
  
4,165,000 
 
On October 15, 2022 
  
4,205,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. All 
goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) for Parts A and 
D
of the project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the 
Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services for Parts A and D of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services for 
Parts A and D of the Project (other than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services for Parts A 
and D of the Project
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and D of the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan, agreed with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out Parts A and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out Parts A and D of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out Parts A and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by October 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A and D of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, until completion of Parts A and D of the Project, maintain 
the Project Management Department to assist it in carrying out and managing Parts A and 
D
of the Project, and shall entrust it with such functions and powers, and provide such 
funds, facilities and resources, including qualified and experienced staff in adequate 
numbers, as may be deemed necessary by the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall provide the Bank with a summary status of the 
implementation (including results from environmental monitoring) as part of normal 
Project reporting or when specifically requested by the Bank. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A and D of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $15,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the  Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
Page  22
-
21
-
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown  by  said  documents  and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  23
-
22
-
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
