Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1675 
Project Name 
Kazakhstan: North-South Electricity Transmission Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P095155 
Borrower(s) 
KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING 
COMPANY (KEGOC) 
Implementing Agency 
KEGOC 
7, Bogenbay batyra str. 
Kazakhstan 
473000 
Tel: +7 (3172) 317537 
Fax: +7 (3172) 9700455 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 14, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 18, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
October 27, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Kazakhstan has made significant progress in nation building since the break-up of the Soviet 
Union.  
The country’s recent economic performance has been impressive and its reform record is 
among the best in the former Soviet Union.  Economic growth has been buoyant at about 11% on 
average since 2000, with income per capita expected to exceed US$2,000 in 2004, 65% higher 
than in 2000.  Many industries, including electricity, mining, metallurgy, petrochemical and 
construction, have rebounded strongly thanks to structural reforms, economic stability and 
demand generated by higher oil revenues.  
 
Kazakhstan has also achieved a great deal in terms of structural policy reform in privatization, 
the financial sector, pensions, public resource management, and the energy sector.  The country’s 
economic activity over the past few years has been driven almost exclusively by the private 
sector, with nearly three-quarters of all investment carried out by private companies.  
 
The country began reforming the power sector in 1996, with a view to introducing private 
participation and establishing a competitive power market.  By 1997, the electricity generation 
plants were separated from the former Kazakhstanenergo (an integrated monopoly) and 
privatized, a state enterprise, the Kazakhstan Electric Grid Operating Company (KEGOC) was 
formed to operate the high voltage transmission network, and regional distribution companies 
were established to take over the functions of regional electricity supply.  Most of these regional 
distribution companies (REKs) have since been privatized.   
 
The wholesale electricity market operates mainly on the basis of bilateral contracts between 
generators and large consumers or REKs for direct sale of power.  Under the ongoing World 
Page  2
2
Bank-supported transmission modernization project, the GOK has established the legislative, 
technical and organizational infrastructure for a functioning electricity spot market.  To complete 
the wholesale electricity market reforms, a real time balancing market will be established and 
operated by KEGOC by end-2007 under the proposed project.      
 
Strong economic growth and increasing diversification of the economic base have led to a sharp 
upswing in electricity demand in Kazakhstan in recent years.  While Kazakhstan has sufficient 
capacity to meet domestic power demand, most of the country's power generation comes from 
the northern part of the country, from power plants located in the coal producing regions and 
hydroelectric facilities.  Generation facilities in the south are limited to small hydro, combined 
heat and power plants and a high cost oil-fired power plant at Zhambyl.  Currently, demand 
exceeds supply in the south by approximately 966 MW (almost 50 percent of peak demand) and 
the deficit is expected to increase to 1,400 MW by 2010.  At present, the deficit is met in part by 
supplies from the north (635 MW) and in part by imports from Central Asia (330 MW).  
However, the existing 500 kV North-South (N/S) interconnector is already operating at capacity, 
and its reliability is low because of its single circuit design.  Major interruptions on the line have 
increased from 6 in 1999 to 18 in 2003 and have led to cut-offs of substations and severe 
frequency fluctuations.    
Pre-feasibility studies carried out in 2001-2002 established that the least-cost method of meeting 
current and mid-term electricity demand in the south was to expand and strengthen the capacity 
of the existing N/S transmission line.  Accordingly, the Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) 
authorized KEGOC to implement the N/S transmission project.  
Improving the N/S transmission links offers numerous benefits in terms of system reliability, 
increased export and transit capacity, removal of growth-retarding power constraints in the south, 
and the ability to make more effective use of low-cost generating plants in the north.  The 
resulting low electricity tariffs would sustain the country’s competitiveness in energy-intensive 
exports (metals and petrochemicals).  At the same time, it would open the opportunity for 
increased electricity trade and better integrated power markets in the region.  The new line would 
allow Kazakhstan to become the “energy bridge” between Russia and Central Asia. 
 
Prospectively, large volumes of cheap hydroelectricity are expected to be exported through the 
line from Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to power deficit markets in Russia (and potentially China), 
thereby promoting regional economic integration and development.  The project would also 
improve the reliability of parallel operation of the power systems of Russia, Kazakhstan and 
Central Asia thus improving the quality of power supply across the region.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The primary project development objective is to ensure that business enterprises and households 
in Kazakhstan have access to a reliable, cost effective and high quality supply of electricity.  At 
the same time, the project would support regional integration objectives with respect to 
optimizing the use of energy resources through intra-regional trade.  In addition, the project aims 
to promote competition both on the national and regional levels by allowing low cost producers 
in Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to compete on the broader regional market, including 
Page  3
3
Russia.  The project is a step towards regional power market liberalization to eventually involve 
all five Central Asian countries.   
 
Specifically, the completion of the N/S project is expected to have the following outcomes: 
 
·
Reduction in the average cost of supply to electricity customers in southern Kazakhstan 
through increased access to low-cost domestic generating plants.   
·
Improved quality and reliability of electricity transmission. 
·
Reduced transmission losses. 
·
Increased regional electricity trade with a consequent reduction in the long-run marginal 
cost of electricity supply for all countries in the region. 
·
Completion of wholesale power market reforms through the establishment of real time 
balancing market. 
·
Further rationalization of the transmission tariff-setting by the adoption of zonal tariffs.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s involvement in the proposed transmission project would facilitate continuation of the 
dialogue with respect to ongoing transmission sector reforms (specifically, further rationalization 
of transmission tariffs and establishment of a real time balancing market).  Moreover, the 
financial savings to KEGOC associated with Bank participation are rather substantial and would 
allow more moderate increases in transmission tariffs than would otherwise be required while 
considerably easing the cash flow pressure on KEGOC over the medium term.  The Bank also 
has a strong interest in the development of regional electricity markets.  Finally, completion of 
the N/S project will help to ensure realization of the benefits of previous and current Bank 
initiatives in the power sector (development of the spot market and financing of transmission 
network modernization) by providing the infrastructure needed to ensure that national and 
regional electricity trade can function properly without technical constraints.    
 
4. Description 
 
The entire N/S project includes the construction of 1,115 km of overhead 500 kV, single circuit 
alternate current (AC) line and upgrades of four high voltage air-insulated substations (1150/500 
kV Ekibastuz, 500 kV Agadyr, 500 kV YukGRES and 500 kV Shu).  The project is to be carried 
out in three phases: Phase I (YukGRES-Shu, 250 km), Phase II (Ekibastuz-Agadyr, 475 km) and 
Phase III (Agadyr-YukGRES, 390 km).  The map in Annex 15 provides a schematic of the 
proposed route. 
Total cost of the project (including taxes and contingencies) is estimated at US$347.3 million 
(Phase I: US$90.5 million, Phase II: US$161.1 million and Phase III: US$95.7 million).  In 
March 2004, KEGOC signed loan agreements with EBRD and the Kazakhstan Development 
Bank (KDB) for a total of US$81 million to finance Phase I construction. 
Page  4
4
Phase II (the subject project) involves construction of 475 km of overhead lines between 
Ekibastuz and Agadyr substations and modernization of 500 kV outdoor switchgear at both 
substations.    
 
·
Component A.  Construction of 500 kV Overhead Single Circuit Transmission Line 
(estimated cost: US$113.8 million, of which the Bank will finance US$99.5 million)  
 
·
Component B.  Extension/Modernization of 1150/500 kV Ekibastuz Air-Insulated 
Substation (estimated cost: US$13.2 million financed by KDB and KEGOC)  
 
·
Component C.  Extension/Modernization of 500 kV Agadyr Air-Insulated Substation 
(estimated cost: US$32.7 million financed by KDB and KEGOC) 
 
·
Component D.  Technical Assistance for Project Management and Transmission Sector 
Reform (US$0.9 million) 
 
Total estimated cost of the Phase II project, including contingencies, up-front financing charges 
and taxes, is US$161.1 million. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 4.55 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
13.14 
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES 
43.4 
 Total 
161.09 
 
6. Implementation 
 
KEGOC will be responsible for project management and implementation.  KEGOC has a 
functioning Project Management Department (PMD), which will be responsible for the proposed 
project.  The services of a competitively selected consulting firm will provide KEGOC with 
advisory services in procurement and management of the project for implementation of the 
transmission line component.  Qualified consultants will also be hired for the transmission sector 
reform component. 
 
It is expected that preparation of tender documents for the transmission line and substations will 
be completed by early 2006.  The contracts for the transmission line and substations are expected 
to be awarded by September 2006.  The contract for the consultant who will prepare the bid 
document for the turnkey transmission line should be awarded by end-2005.  Completion of 
construction for the transmission line and substations is expected in early 2009.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Page  5
5
The project enjoys strong support from the GOK.  In December 2002, the Agency for Regulation 
of Natural Monopolies (ARNM) approved tariff increases over the 2003
–2005 period sufficient 
to allow KEGOC to implement the project.  Owing to strong financial performance in 2003 and 
the slower-than-anticipated progress on implementation of the N/S line, KEGOC proposed and 
ARNM agreed that tariffs for transmission and dispatch in 2004 would be retained at the 2003 
levels.  In April, 2005, the ARNM approved an increase of 8.9% in the transmission tariff and 
9.5% in the dispatch tariff.  The 2005-2007 Development Plan, which was approved by the 
GOK, envisions further increases of 6% in the transmission tariff and 15% in the dispatch tariff 
by 2007.  
 
Over the longer term, the sustainability of the project will depend on: 
·
Preserving the financial viability of KEGOC through timely adjustment of tariffs in 
accordance with the pre-agreed schedule. 
·
Careful management of the use of discounts for transmission services. 
·
Continued growth in both the domestic power markets and regional electricity trade. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
With respect to lessons to be drawn from prior work in the region and sector, Bank experience 
has shown that: (i) the need to coordinate among key government agencies can present 
challenges that should be taken into account in both the project processing plan and in the 
ultimate scope and design of the project; and (ii) competent and efficient national project 
management staff are invaluable in ensuring the viability and sustainability of the project and 
should be brought on at an early stage.  In the case of the proposed project, a significant amount 
of the necessary coordination has already been carried out by KEGOC, including obtaining the 
approval of the State Expertise, and obtaining support of the government ministries with regard 
to project financing plans and environmental management plans.  The project will also benefit 
from an established PMD, with a proven competence in the implementation of Bank-financed 
projects. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
6
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
The entire route of the N/S interconnector passes through four regions of Kazakhstan: Pavlodar, 
Karanganda, Almaty and Zhambyl, largely within existing corridors.  The route for all three 
phases will be on state-owned land of no or low agricultural value.  None of the land to be 
utilized includes protected areas or proven mineral deposits.  Furthermore, it is far removed from 
populated areas and hence no resettlement is required.  Almost the entire length of the line is 
pasture land (steppe).  The route of Phase II passes through two regions, Pavlodar and 
Karaganda, within an abandoned corridor of a 1,150 kV transmission line (which was largely 
dismantled after the breakup of the USSR).     
 
The chief environmental issues associated with project during construction are: management of 
topsoil (transmission line), dust and noise associated with the movement of people, material and 
machines, potential impacts from access road construction, clearance of vegetative cover 
(transmission line), management of construction wastes and prohibition of purchasing any 
equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls.  During operation, issues at the substations are 
limited to oil leaks, noise generation and electromagnetic field strength.  Along the transmission 
line route, the chief issues are electromagnetic field strength, and interference with migratory 
bird routes.  
 
The Project is in full compliance with environmental requirements of both the GOK and the 
Bank.  The Ministry of Environment (MOE) reviewed the final feasibility study for the overall 
N/S project and approved it as a preliminary Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).  Prior to 
starting construction, the MOE will require a final EIA, based on the detailed project design, 
prepared by an organization holding a license issued by the MOE.  The final EIA should also 
accommodate MOE comments and recommendations made on the feasibility study. 
 
In accordance with World Bank Environmental Assessment procedures, the subject project was 
classified as category B, indicating limited impacts (largely during construction) that can be 
readily managed through sound engineering design and construction.  Consistent with a category 
B
rating, KEGOC prepared an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) in accordance with Bank 
requirements, including a detailed description of the expected environmental impacts, proposed 
mitigation measures, monitoring plan and environmental capacity improvements in KEGOC.  A 
public consultation was conducted with affected stakeholders and NGOs on June 28, 2005 in 
Astana.  The Russian language EMP was disclosed on KEGOC’s website on July 7, 2005.  A 
satisfactory English language version of the EMP was received by the Bank on July 6, 2005 and 
was deposited in InfoShop on July 7, 2005.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
“Construction of North-South 500 kV Second Overhead Transmission Line with Entering of 500 
kV OHTL # 514 at 500 kV Shu Substation, Feasibility Study”, by Energiya et al, 2003 
 
“Kazakhstan North-South Electricity Transmission Project (Phase II). Environmental 
Management Plan,” by KEGOC, June 29, 2005.  
 
Page  7
7
“Kazakhstan North-South 500 kV Power Transmission Line. Investment Pre-Feasibility Study. 
Final Report,” by RWE Solutions et al, 2002. 
 
“Outputs of the Working Group for Preparation of Proposals Related to Development of Power 
Capacity in 2005-2015 with Involvement of Pension Funds of the Republic of Kazakhstan,” 
2005. 
 
“Project Implementation Plan. Construction of North-South 500 kV Second Overhead 
Transmission Line,” KEGOC, 2004. 
 
“State Environmental Assessment Report on Feasibility Study for Construction of North-South 
500 kV Second Overhead Transmission Line with Entering of 500 kV OHTL # 514 at 500 kV 
Shu Substation,” Ministry of Environment, April 2004 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Istvan Dobozi 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2147 
Fax: (202) 614-1582 
Email: Idobozi@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Tel:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
