                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000578



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48050)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION


                                       TO THE

         KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY

                          WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                      THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                       FOR A

           NORTH-SOUTH ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PROJECT



                                     May 31, 2012



Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (average rate for 2011)

                 Currency Unit = Kazakh Tenge (KZT)
                        1.00 KZT = US$ 0.01
                       US$ 1.00 = 146.62 KZT

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 – December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AC      Alternating Current
ARNM    Agency for Regulation of Natural Monopolies
CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DBK     Development Bank of Kazakhstan
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
FY      Fiscal Year
GOK     Government of Kazakhstan
GWh     Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 KWh)
HV      High Voltage
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IPO     Initial Public Offering
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
KEGOC   Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company
kV      Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kWh     Kilowatt Hour (1,000 watt hours)
KZT     Kazakhstan Tenge
MW      Megawatt (1,000 kW)
NPV     Net Present Value
N/S     North-South
OHL     Overhead Line
PLC     Power Line Carrier
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMD     Project Management Department
REK     Regional Electricity Distribution Company
SA     Special Account
SAPR   Substation Automation and Protective Relaying
SOE    Statement of Expenditure
SS     Substation
TA     Technical Assistance
TWh    Terawatt hour (1 billion kWh)
VAT    Value Added Tax



                     Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director: Saroj Kumar Jha
                    Sector Manager: Ranjit J. Lamech
               Project Team Leader: Mirlan Aldayarov
               ICR Primary Author: Jann Masterson
                                        KAZAKHSTAN
                           North-South Electricity Transmission Project




                                                     CONTENTS

A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 31
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32
MAP IBRD 33971
A. Basic Information
                                                                           North-South Electricity
Country:                Kazakhstan               Project Name:
                                                                           Transmission Project
Project ID:             P095155                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48050
ICR Date:               05/31/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           KAZAKHSTAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 ELECTRICITY GRID
                                                                           OPERATING CO
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 98.08M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 98.08M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 KEGOC
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Development Bank of Kazakhstan

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/09/2005      Effectiveness:                               12/22/2005
                                                                                   06/20/2008
Appraisal:            07/25/2005      Restructuring(s):                            01/22/2009
                                                                                   05/29/2009
Approval:             10/27/2005      Mid-term Review:           10/30/2007        09/30/2007
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2009        11/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:


                                                 i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                   100                   100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                   40                    40
Other financial and private sector development                           20                    20
Regional integration                                                     20                    20
Regulation and competition policy                                        20                    20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Saroj Kumar Jha                      Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager:              Ranjit J. Lamech                     Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:         Mirlan Aldayarov                     Istvan Dobozi
ICR Team Leader:             Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR Primary Author:          Peggy Janice Masterson


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary development objective of the overall North-South Electricity Transmission
Project is to ensure that business enterprises and households in southern Kazakhstan have
access to adequate, reliable and cost effective supply of electricity. The Project also


                                                 ii
supports regional integration with respect to optimizing the use of energy resources
through international electricity trade.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
                PDO: Increased volume of electricity transfer from generating plants in northern
Indicator 1 :
                Kazakhstan to markets in southern Kazakhstan through N/S interconnector.
                                                                            7.5 TWh electricity
                                                                            transfer from
                3.9 TWh electricity
                                          7.5 TWh                           northern
                transfer from northern
Value                                     electricity transfer              Kazakhstan to
                Kazakhstan to southern
quantitative or                           through the second                southern
                Kazakhstan through the
Qualitative)                              North-South                       Kazakhstan through
                second North-South
                                          interconnector.                   the second North-
                interconnector.
                                                                            South
                                                                            interconnector
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                        11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Target 100% achieved, beginning in 2010.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                         Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
                  Maximum transmission capacity to southern Kazakhstan through N/S
Indicator 1 :
                  interconnector.
Value
(quantitative     650 MW                   1350 MW                           1350 MW
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2009                        11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Target 100% achieved, beginning in 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Reduction in the frequency of major outages on N/S interconnector.
Value
(quantitative     13                       8                                 6
or Qualitative)


                                                iii
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                       11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded by 33%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Reduction in transmission losses on the N/S interconnector
Value
(quantitative     8.8%                        6.5%                             7.6%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                       11/30/2011
Comments
                  Loss levels have been significantly reduced ard are expected to be reduced
(incl. %
                  further.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Establishment of Balancing Market
                                                                              Balancing Market
Value                                                                         fully designed and
                                            Balancing Market
(quantitative   No Balancing Market                                           operating in trial
                                            established
or Qualitative)                                                               mode since January
                                                                              1, 2008.
Date achieved 12/31/2005                    12/31/2009                        11/30/2011
Comments        The current load following generation capacity is insufficient to launch the
(incl. %        Balancing Market at this time. When additional generation comes into service
achievement) later in 2012, it will be launched. 70% achievement.
Indicator 5 : Introduction of zonal tariffs.
                                                                              Zonal tariffs were
                Distortionary tariff                                          adopted in 2006
                structure that included a                                     and replaced in
Value                                       Introduction of
                geographic distance-                                          2010 with a new,
(quantitative                               zonal tariffs by
                based component                                               efficient tariff
or Qualitative)                             2006
                between sellers and                                           methodology based
                buyers of electricity.                                        on a uniform
                                                                              national tariff.
Date achieved 12/31/2005                    12/31/2009                        11/30/2011
Comments
                Target 100% achieved. The new uniform tariff is efficient, transparent and
(incl. %
                covers justifiable costs and a regulated rate of return.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/09/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/01/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/28/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     11/08/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  28.25
  5     06/24/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  28.26
  6     03/05/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  60.60


                                                  iv
 7     06/22/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 66.20
 8     12/21/2009        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             84.05
 9     07/21/2010        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             94.53
 10    11/04/2010        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             96.13
 11    06/27/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 98.08


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     KEGOC, given its substantial
                                                     capital investment program,
                                                     requested the Bank to amend
 06/20/2008               S       S          28.26
                                                     the Loan Agreement to reduce
                                                     its current ratio covenant from
                                                     1.4 to 1.
                                                     To transfer the "Modernization
                                                     of Substations Component"
                                                     from the Electricity
                                                     Transmission Rehabilitation
                                                     Project to the N/S Electricity
                                                     Transmission Project, using the
 01/22/2009               S       S          60.60   savings from the N/S Project to
                                                     cover a financing gap under the
                                                     Electricity Transmission
                                                     Rehabilitation Project. An
                                                     additional component (US$16.4
                                                     million) was added to the N/S
                                                     Project.
                                                     Closing date extension was
                                                     needed for the full completion
                                                     of the "Modernization of
 05/29/2009               S       S          64.89   Substations" component. The
                                                     closing date was extended from
                                                     December 31, 2009 to
                                                     November 30, 2011.




                                         v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal in 2005, Kazakhstan’s economic performance had been impressive, and its
reform record was among the best in the former Soviet Union. Economic growth had
been buoyant at about 11 percent on average since 2000, with income per capita expected
to exceed US$2,000 in 2004. Growth had been driven mainly by increased oil production
and higher oil prices. Electricity consumption grew rapidly at 6 percent per year.

There were about 70 power generation plants with a total installed capacity of 18,485
MW, much of it coal-fired, privatized and technically outdated.

The high voltage transmission system had three voltage levels: 1,150 kV, 500 kV and 220
kV. The state-owned Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company (KEGOC)
operated all transmission assets at 1,150 kV and 500 kV levels. KEGOC was responsible
for dispatch control and operated international connections, principally with Russia,
Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan. KEGOC’s transmission system consisted of three
regional power grids: (i) the Northern grid connected to the Russian power system; (ii)
the Southern grid connected to the Central Asian power system and the Northern grid
with a single circuit 500 kV transmission line; and (iii) the Western grid, comprising of
two subsystems, which were isolated from the other systems.

There were 21 Regional Distribution Companies (REKs), most of them privatized and
technically outdated.

In the area of power sector reforms, Kazakhstan ranked among the most advanced
countries in the Former Soviet Union. The Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) began
reforms in 1996, with a view to introducing massive private participation and establishing
a competitive power market. The wholesale electricity market was fully liberalized and
operated mainly on the basis of bilateral contracts between generators and REKs for
direct sale of power.

Project Rationale. Vigorous economic growth and increasing diversification of the
economic base had led to a sharp upswing in electricity demand in Kazakhstan. While
Kazakhstan, overall, had sufficient generation capacity to meet domestic power demand,
four-fifths of power generation came from the northern part of the country,
predominantly from coal-based power plants located in the Ekibastuz region and, to a
lesser extent, from hydroelectric plants located primarily along the Irtysh River.
Generation facilities in the south were limited to small hydro, combined heat and power
plants, and a high cost gas/oil-fired power plant at Zhambyl which was operated to meet
winter peak demand.

The existing KEGOC-operated North-South (N/S) electricity transmission lines of 500
kV and 220 kV, via which low-cost electricity was transmitted from the northern power
stations to the south, had a limited transmission capacity of 650 MW, which was grossly
insufficient to meet demand in the booming southern part of the country, especially in the
industrial belt between Almaty and Shymkent. The power deficit in the south was about

                                            1
900 MW (half of regional consumption). The deficit was met largely by transmitting
power from the north and, in part, by importing electricity. Historically, the southern
regions of Kazakhstan imported power from the Central Asia Power System (CAPS), but
with the break-up of the Soviet Union, the amount of imported power had reduced. The
limited available imports could not fully meet regional electricity demand in the winter
period of maximum electric loads, which necessitated restrictions on consumption (load
shedding) with an adverse impact on regional economic development. At the same time,
because of the limited N/S transmission capacity, surplus electricity from the northern
power grid was exported to Russia. Furthermore, reliability of the existing 500 kV
interconnector was low because of its single circuit design. Disconnection or outage of
even one of the five 500 kV line sections could stop power transmission to southern
Kazakhstan and the interconnected parallel operation of the Kazakh power system with
CAPS and Russia. Irregular power flows caused frequent activation of emergency control
systems on the interconnector, thus causing load rejection, disconnection and voltage
control switching of 500 kV reactors. Due to the increasing overload of the
interconnector, the number of major emergency breakdowns increased sharply. The
resulting economic damage and dislocation was considerable.

Fully appreciating the approaching needs, the GOK had initiated a number of studies. In-
depth feasibility studies established that the least-cost method of meeting current and
prospective electricity demand in the south was to expand and strengthen the capacity of
the existing N/S transmission line. A detailed feasibility study of strengthening the N/S n
line resulted in a three-phase approach: Phase I (YukGRES-Shu, 250 km), Phase II
(Ekibastuz-Agadyr, 475 km), and Phase III (Agadyr-YukGRES, 390 km).

KEGOC requested the Bank’s financing for Phase II of the entire N/S Project. In addition
to providing financing, the Bank’s involvement would facilitate the continuation of the
sector reform dialogue with respect to the completion of the transmission system reforms
which had been initiated under the earlier Bank-financed Electricity Transmission
Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 4526-KZ). Moreover, the financial savings to KEGOC
associated with Bank participation were substantial and would allow more moderate
increases in transmission tariffs than would otherwise be required, while considerably
easing the cash flow pressure on KEGOC over the near and medium terms.

The Bank also had a strong interest in the development of regional electricity markets and,
through its involvement in the Project, could ensure that the regional electricity
integration aspects were properly addressed (e.g., by providing non-discriminatory Third
Party Access to the N/S line for export and international transit related transmission
services). Completion of the new N/S line would also help to ensure the sustainability
and full realization of the benefits of previous Bank initiatives in the power sector
(including support for transmission system rehabilitation, Grid Code, transmission tariff
rationalization and development of the electricity spot market).

Higher Level Objectives to which the Project would contribute. Kazakhstan’s
development focus was on achieving international standards for public services and
enterprises and increasing the competitiveness of its tradable non-oil sectors. Reliable and
cost effective electricity was fundamental to both social and economic development.
Strengthening the transmission grid would ensure wide-spread access to low-cost
generation, while development of the physical and institutional framework for electricity

                                             2
trade would facilitate the longer-term development of competitive national and regional
electricity markets.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The primary development objective of the overall N/S project, as captured in the PAD,
was to ensure that business enterprises and households in southern Kazakhstan have
access to adequate, reliable and cost effective supply of electricity. The project also
supported regional integration with respect to optimizing the use of energy resources
through international electricity trade.1 For the purposes of the ICR, the PDO statement
from the PAD was used as this is the one that was used throughout project
implementation.

The key indicators were:

PDO Indicator
    Increased volume of electricity transfer from generating plants in northern
       Kazakhstan to markets in southern Kazakhstan through the N/S interconnector

Intermediate Outcome Indicators
      Maximum transmission capacity to southern Kazakhstan through the N/S
        interconnector;
      Reduction in the frequency of major outages on the N/S interconnector;
      Reduction in transmission losses on the N/S interconnector;
      Establishment of a Balancing Market;
      Introduction of zonal tariffs.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project Development Objectives and the Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The main beneficiaries of the Project were business enterprises and households in
southern Kazakhstan, whose well-being was expected to be enhanced by (i) providing
access to adequate, reliable and cost effective supply of electricity; and (ii) continued
economic growth in the region through removing a binding energy supply constraint; and
(iii) increasing the region’s competitiveness with related economic benefits in terms of
employment and income. Expanding the N/S transmission line would offer numerous
benefits in terms of system reliability, increased export/transit capacity and the ability to
make more effective use of low-cost generating plants in northern Kazakhstan. The new
line would also improve the reliability of parallel operation of the power systems of
Russia, Kazakhstan and Central Asia, thus improving the quality of power supply across


1
  The development objectives, as stated in the Loan Agreement, were: (i) to ensure that business enterprises
and households in southern Kazakhstan have access to reliable, cost effective and high quality supply of
electricity; and (ii) to support regional integration with respect to optimizing the use of energy resources
through international electricity trade.


                                                     3
the region. KEGOC would also benefit by improving its financial standing due to
increased transmission volumes.

1.5 Original Components
The Bank-supported project, which financed Phase II of the three-phase overall N/S
Electricity Transmission Line Project,2 involved the construction of 475 km of overhead
lines (OHL) between Ekibastuz and Agadyr SSs and modernization of 500 kV outdoor
switchgear at both SSs. The total estimated cost of the Phase II Project was US$160.8
million. The Project consisted of the following components:

       Component A. Construction of 500 kV Overhead Single Circuit Transmission
        Line (estimated cost: US$113.8 million, of which the Bank would finance
        US$99.5 million). Construction of a new 475 km 500 kV single circuit OHL from
        the air-insulated SS Ekibastuz (1,150/500 kV) to the air insulated SS Agadyr (500
        kV), including a Fiber Optic Communications Line.
       Component B. Extension/Modernization of 1,150/500 kV Ekibastuz Air-
        Insulated SS (estimated cost: US$13.2 million financed by DBK and KEGOC).
        This component would involve expanding the existing 1,150/500 kV SS at
        Ekibastuz by three bays and installing shunt reactors to accommodate the new 500
        kV link with Agadyr SS. The work would include installation of SF6 circuit
        breakers, disconnect switches, current transformers, voltage transformers, three
        single-phase shunt reactors as well as SS automation and protective relaying and a
        Power Line Carrier (PLC). Installation of shunt reactors was expected to improve
        the stability of the power grid and regulate voltage conditions of the transmission
        system.
       Component C. Extension/Modernization of 500 kV Agadyr Air-Insulated SS
        (estimated cost: US$32.8 million financed by DBK and KEGOC. This
        component would involve expanding the existing 500 kV SS at Agadyr by six
        bays to accommodate the new 500 kV link with the Ekibastuz and YukGRES SSs.
        Three new shunt reactors would be installed with two shunt control reactors
        connected to the busbar and the third shunt reactor connected to the Agadyr-
        YukGRES line. The work would include installation of SF6 circuit breakers,
        disconnect switches, current and voltage transformers shunt reactors, and SS
        automation and protective relaying as well as PLC. Installation of shunt reactors
        was intended to improve the stability of the power grid and regulate voltage
        conditions of the transmission system.
       Component D. Technical Assistance (US$0.9 million). This component includes
        consulting services for (i) procurement and project management for the
        construction of the 500 kV OHL between Ekibastuz and Agadyr (estimated cost
        US$0.5 million financed by the Bank) and (ii) further reforms of the transmission
        sector (estimated at US$0.4 million), including transmission pricing (zonal tariffs)
        and establishment of a real time balancing market.


2
  The three-phase overall N/S project included the construction of 1,115 km of overhead 500 kV, single
circuit alternate current (AC) line and upgrades of four high voltage air-insulated substations (1150/500 kV
Ekibastuz, 500 kV Agadyr, 500 kV YukGRES and 500 kV Shu). The project was to be carried out in three
phases: Phase I (YukGRES-Shu, 250 km); Phase II (Ekibastuz-Agadyr, 475 km) and Phase III (Agadyr-
YukGRES, 390 km).


                                                     4
1.6 Revised Components
In January 2009, the N/S Transmission Project was restructured to add a fifth component
- Component E: Modernization of Transmission SSs - following a request from the
Borrower. Under the restructuring, an unfinished portion of the earlier Electricity
Transmission Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 4526- KZ) was transferred to the N/S
Transmission Project for full completion. This allowed full and satisfactory completion
of the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project without compromising in any way
the successful implementation of the N/S Project. The two Bank-financed transmission
projects were closely connected, with the same intended outcome of improved reliability
and quality of electricity supply to businesses and households, and successful completion
of the Rehabilitation Project was a key to the satisfactory outcomes of both projects. The
main modifications to the N/S Project consisted of: (i) the inclusion of an additional
IBRD loan-financed component of US$16.4 million to modernize 27 high voltage SSs
which were originally included in the Rehabilitation Project, which experienced a
financing gap due to the large depreciation of the US$ against the Euro; and (ii) reduction
of the IBRD loan-financed portion of the existing Component A “Construction of
Transmission Line Agadyr-Ekibastuz? by the same amount. KEGOC would finance from
its own funds the VAT, which had originally been intended to be financed from the IBRD
Loan.

1.7 Other significant changes

        EBRD co-financing (originally planned at US$13.14 million equivalent). In
         2007, the winning bid for the N/S Transmission Line came in at about US$5.7
         million lower than the original cost estimate; therefore, EBRD co-financing for
         the second phase was no longer needed and was applied to a subsequent
         transmission project of the Borrower.
        In June 2008, following a request from KEGOC, the Bank amended the Loan
         Agreement to reduce the current ratio (ratio of current assets to current
         liabilities) covenant in the Loan Agreement from 1.4 to 1.
        Reallocation of savings. In January 2009, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
         were amended to add the new component E. The cost savings of US$5.7 million
         from the transmission line contract were reallocated to the new component E,
         and KEGOC used its own funds to finance the VAT component (US$10.7
         million) that had originally been intended to be financed from the Bank Loan.
        Closing Date extension. In July 2009, after it became apparent that the
         Component E “Modernization of Transmission SSs?, which had been
         transferred from the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project, could not
         be completed by the original Closing Date of December 31, 2009, the Closing
         Date was extended to November 30, 2011 so that the remaining 27 SSs could be
         completed and commissioned.
        Final cancellation. On September 15, 2011, the remaining undisbursed loan
         balance of US$1,918,008.62 (about 2% of the total loan amount) resulting from
         savings achieved under the IBRD loan was cancelled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


                                            5
Soundness of the Background Analysis. Lessons learned from prior work in the region
and the sub-sector were taken into account during design and preparation of the Project.
The Bank team coordinated among key government agencies on both the project
processing schedule, project implementation plan and on the ultimate scope and design of
the project; the Bank team included from the beginning of project identification and
preparation the competent and efficient national project management staff of KEGOC;
and the Bank team closely coordinated with co-financiers from an early stage to ensure
non-duplication of efforts, efficient procurement and implementation of components as
well as compatibility of lending terms and conditions. Prior experience in the
implementation of transmission projects had revealed areas that required special attention,
including the need for thorough technical analyses so that facilities were designed and
routed to minimize environmental and social impact and the importance of commitment
by provincial governments and public participation to ensure successful environmental
management. These were addressed satisfactorily in preparation of the Project. Previous
projects had also shown that the implementation of physical components of the project
could be expedited by paying close attention to the following factors: prompt government
clearance, effective design management to ensure a timely delivery of drawings, and this
was the case in this Project, which was completed under budget and ahead of schedule
(except for the new component added towards the end of Project implementation).

Assessment of the Project Design. The objectives, components and implementation
arrangements were realistic. The design involved standard technology for high-voltage
transmission line and SS construction. KEGOC, the Borrower and implementing agency,
was a competent grid operating company and had already gained experience in
implementing the earlier Bank-financed Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project.
Both its procurement and financial management capacity were assessed during
preparation and found to be satisfactory. In the original financing plan there were two
international co-financiers, the Bank and the EBRD, plus the Borrower and DBK. Each
co-financier had clearly assigned roles in financing the three phases of the transmission
system development. There was a clear recognition of the importance of the social and
environmental safeguards in the detailed route selection and environmental impact
assessment.

Two project alternatives were considered but rejected: increased generation capacity in
southern Kazakhstan, which was rejected after a least cost assessment during the pre-
feasibility study determined that the N/S transmission line was the best economic
alternative by a considerable margin; and increased imports into southern Kazakhstan, an
alternative which was rejected as hydropower plants in the Kyrgyz Republic and
Tajikistan also supply water for irrigation, making surplus electricity from these countries
available mainly on a seasonal basis.

Adequacy of Government Commitment and Participatory Process. The N/S
Transmission Project as a nationally top priority operation, enjoyed strong support from
the GOK, as evidenced by the provision of State Guarantee for KEGOC which, at the
time, was given only to few high-priority operations. KEGOC obtained the approval of
the State Expertise and the support of the relevant ministries in regard to the feasibility
study, environmental impact assessment and project financing plan early on during
project preparation. The GOK demonstrated its commitment during project preparation
by quickly facilitating the approval of the feasibility study for the N/S electricity

                                             6
transmission line, authorizing KEGOC to arrange loan financing and supporting
KEGOC’s request to ARNM (sector regulator) to adjust the transmission tariffs to ensure
that KEGOC would be able to finance the project and repay the debts. The company’s
2005-2007 Development Plan also envisioned further increases in the transmission tariff
and in the dispatch tariff. A satisfactory public consultation on the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for the Phase II Project was conducted with affected
stakeholders and NGOs on June 28, 2005 in Astana, and was verified by the Bank’s
environmental specialist.

Assessment of Risks. The overall risk rating was assessed as Moderate, which indeed
proved to be the case. Only two of the seven risks were originally rated as Substantial: (i)
inadequate transmission tariffs and project implementation delays due to lack of local
financing: and (ii) weak project management and overloaded implementation capacity of
the Borrower. Both risks were mitigated through the following measures:
     the provisions of the Guarantee Agreement ensured that tariffs would be
        maintained at levels sufficient to cover KEGOC’s longer term cash flow
        requirements;
     The Project Management Department (PMD) of KEGOC was strengthened with
        an international consultant to assist in project management. The turnkey
        procurement arrangement prevented excessive project implementation delays.

2.2 Implementation

The overall three-phase transmission line project was implemented in cooperation with
other donors and partners, with EBRD providing financing for phases I and III of the
overall N/S transmission line, DBK and the Bank providing financing for phase II, and
KEGOC providing financing for all three phases. All three phases were completed by
2009 as scheduled.

Project implementation proceeded mostly on schedule, and the original components (A-
D) of the project were completed by the original closing date of December 31, 2009.
Under Component E, transferred from the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project,
19 high voltage transmission SSs were rehabilitated and commissioned and 8 high
voltage SSs were commissioned by November 30, 2011. The project was never at risk
and was continuously rated “Satisfactory? or “Highly Satisfactory? throughout project
implementation.

In July 2010, KEGOC informed the Bank about ARNM’s decision to phase out the zonal
tariffs introduced in 2006. As a result of the large-scale network expansion investments
(including the second N/S transmission line), the major transmission line bottlenecks
(congestion) had been eliminated and the transmission situation had vastly improved,
allowing Kazakhstan to return to a nationally uniform tariff methodology based on a
single tariff. (Earlier, the large zonal differences in national network access provided the
justification for zonal tariffs, which reflected energy deficits/surpluses among the major
power regions.) Importantly, the underlying principle of the new tariff methodology is
fully consistent with the relevant provision of the Guarantee Agreement by ensuring that
the transmission tariffs are (i) not dependent on geographical distances between
generators and consumers of electricity; and (ii) maintained at levels sufficient to fully
cover KEGOC’s prudently incurred operating and capital expenditures.

                                             7
The Project has been a success in achieving its primary objective. The annual volume of
electricity transferred from generation plants in the north to consumers in the south has
increased from 3.9 TWh to 7.5 TWh (92 percent increase). The reliability and quality of
transmission has significantly improved as evidenced by the decrease in frequency and
duration of forced outages (reduction from 19 major outages in 2005 to 6 in 2011). The
four key reform covenants of the Guarantee Agreement have been substantially achieved
(see Section 3.2).

The following key factors contributed to the successful implementation of the Project:
    Solid project design, incorporating lessons learned from best practice regional and
       international experience of similar Bank-supported projects;
    Continuous GOK commitment and compliance with the reform covenants of the
       Guarantee Agreement;
    Efficient and committed counterpart, with KEGOC being an efficient, and
       commercially oriented Grid Operator that had acquired experience in
       implementing a Bank-financed project through the previous Electricity
       Transmission Rehabilitation Project;
    The use of a turn-key contract for the supply and installation of Ekibastuz-Agadyr
       transmission line reduced the administrative burden on KEGOC and prevented
       implementation delays.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The outcome and intermediate indicators developed for the Project were adequately
designed and provided a good indication of progress towards achieving the PDO.
KEGOC’s PMD regularly collected the appropriate data on the outcome and intermediate
indicators and ensured information quality, using data from KEGOC’s annual operating
statistics and Dispatch Center reports. The PMD provided Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) within 45 days of the end of each quarter. KEGOC prepared comprehensive,
accurate and transparent Annual Reports, which were used for management decision
making, and enhanced KEGOC’s reputation as a reliable and financially stable partner,
enabling the company to raise substantial financial resources from international financial
institutions. Because the M&E indicators are routinely collected by KEGOC, it is likely
that they will continue to be collected in the future.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Policy Issues. KEGOC complied fully with the Bank’s safeguard policies and
Kazakhstan’s environmental protection regulations. The Project was classified as
Category B, indicating limited impacts that could be readily managed through sound
engineering design and construction. The only safeguard policy identified during
preparation was Environmental Assessment. KEGOC prepared an EMP in accordance
with Bank requirements. A satisfactory public consultation on the EMP for the Project
was conducted with affected stakeholders and NGOs on June 28, 2005 in Astana. The
EMP was followed by KEGOC throughout project implementation, and the Bank’s team
regularly supervised EMP implementation and confirmed that KEGOC was
implementing it satisfactorily.


                                            8
Fiduciary Compliance.

Financial Management. KEGOC complied with the Bank’s fiduciary policies and
financial management (FM) requirements and complied with the financial covenants of
the Loan Agreement. KEGOC consistently received an unqualified audit opinion on its
financial statements including the project accounts for the year ending December 31,
2010.

Procurement. Procurement under the Project was implemented in accordance with the
Bank’s Procurement and Consultant Guidelines dated May 2004 and in accordance with
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. KEGOC ran a tight procurement
process and a well-administered tender for the main turnkey contract, which came in at
about US$5.7 million below the original cost estimate.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The second N/S Transmission Line and the SSs modernized are now completely
operational and have been fully integrated into KEGOC’s national grid system.

A legal basis has been established for the tariff-setting methodology and the Regulator
continues to set transmission tariffs that fully reflect KEGOC’s operating costs and
investment needs. In addition, the state holding company (Samruk-Kazyna, the sole
shareholder of KEGOC) pledged additional equity injections to cover any cash-flow
shortfalls that might arise as a result of the ongoing investment program. As a result,
there appears to be adequate provision to ensure the financial sustainability of the
company.

KEGOC has formally requested the Bank’s support for the proposed Third North-South
Electricity Transmission Project, and preparations for a feasibility study are underway.
The proposed project is included in the FY12-FY17 Country Partnership Strategy.
Follow-up investments to strengthen the power network and improve the reliability of the
electricity supply in southern Kazakhstan, such as the Bank-financed Moinak Electricity
Transmission Project and the Alma Electricity Transmission Project are currently under
implementation and provide the basis for continuing to monitor KEGOC’s financial
performance as well as sustain the agreed program of sector reforms.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives and design remain highly relevant in the context of Kazakhstan’s
development priorities. Kazakhstan has maintained an ongoing commitment to
developing an infrastructure that meets international standards and is capable of
supporting economic growth and social development. Establishment of an efficient and
reliable power transmission network and the resultant improvements in the cost and
reliability of power supply have been key in facilitating economic growth that has
occurred during project implementation. Although the GOK has reduced its sovereign-
guaranteed borrowings in recent years, it continues to provide sovereign guarantees for
KEGOC’s program of transmission system expansion and upgrade, thereby

                                           9
demonstrating the strategic importance that it assigns to these initiatives. This project was
also part of the development strategy of Kazakhstan’s national power grid for 2007-2015.
The strategy includes a list of seven projects aimed at reconstruction, reinforcement and
modernization of the national power grid, which links not only regions within the country,
but also aims at strengthening the energy interconnections with the neighboring Central
Asian countries.

The project remains consistent with the objectives of the IBRD and IFC CPS for FY12-
FY17, which is designed to help the GOK implement its development priorities. The CPS
was discussed by the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors on May 1, 2012. A massive
extension of the high voltage transmission system to integrate the currently poorly
connected regions into the national network remains a top GOK priority. As stated in the
FY05-11 CPS Completion Report, relieving the infrastructure constraints to growth was a
key component of the GOK’s competitiveness agenda, and the Bank has partially
financed strategic investments in the transmission sector through four consecutive
projects 3 that have made KEGOC one of the most technologically advanced grid
companies among the CIS. The N/S Project was an investment project in a strategic,
high-impact area of engagement of improving competitiveness and employment
generation; it also responds to the country development goal to develop infrastructure
connectivity to reduce economic distance by improving energy transmission to poor areas.
The project also played a role in assisting the electricity grid operating company to
enhance corporate governance and financial standards to international best practice and
supporting regional electricity trade.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

All three phases of the overall North-South Transmission Line have been completed
satisfactorily. With respect to the achievement of the PDO, the Project, and the whole
line, has been a success. The annual volume of electricity transferred from generation
plants in the north to consumers in the south has increased from 3.9 TWh to 7.5 TWh (92
percent increase). The reliability and quality of supply has significantly improved as
evidenced by the decrease in frequency and duration of forced outages (reduction from
nineteen major outages in 2005 to six in 2011). There are no longer quality of service
issues (fluctuations of voltage and frequency) at the high voltage level. Transmission
losses have been reduced from 8.5 percent in 2006 to 7.6 percent in 2011.

Evolution of transmission losses
   Indicator     2006       2007              2008*         2009         2010        2011
 Transmission 8.5%        8.5%               9.2%         8.1%         7.8%        7.6%
 losses
* - Year of commencement of operation of the line




3
  Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project (FY99-09), North-South Electricity Transmission Project
(FY06-11), Moinak Electricity Transmission Project (FY10-12) and Alma Electricity Transmission Project
(FY11-15).


                                                    10
Customer losses due to outages on the N/S line have declined, and capacity has increased
by about 700 MW. The Project provided substantial additional regional electricity
transfer capacity to support electricity trade among Russia, Kazakhstan and other Central
Asian countries. The Project allowed accessing the low-cost generation and was the least-
cost method of meeting medium-term electricity demand in the south.

The four key “reform? covenants of Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement have been
substantially achieved:

      maintain KEGOC’s tariffs at levels sufficient to fully cover the company’s cash
       flow requirements as well as a regulated rate of return on net fixed assets. An
       efficient tariff methodology has been established which is transparent and covers
       justifiable costs and a regulated rate of return.
      approve the implementation of a transmission tariff-setting methodology based on
       the concept of zonal tariffs. Zonal tariffs reflecting the existing power
       deficits/surpluses among the three regional power zones in Kazakhstan and the
       inter-zonal bottlenecks (congestion) in the transmission capacity were introduced
       in 2006. In 2010, ARNM decided to phase out the zonal tariffs introduced in
       2006 because the major transmission line bottlenecks had been eliminated as a
       result of the large-scale network expansion investments, including the N/S line.
       As a result of these major network expansion investments, the transmission
       situation has vastly improved, allowing Kazakhstan to return to a nationally
       uniform tariff methodology based on a single tariff.
      cause KEGOC to ensure the implementation of non-discriminatory third party
       access to the N/S line, including access to export and international transit-related
       services, based on published tariffs, applicable to all customers and to be applied
       fairly and without discrimination between customers. Non-discriminatory third
       party access to the transmission grid is operational. The new tariff methodology is
       also consistent with the Guarantee Agreement by not including in the tariff
       structure a geographic distance-based component between sellers and buyers of
       electricity, which was highly distortionary.
      establish a real-time electricity balancing market to be operated by KEGOC
       based on transparent market rules. The Balancing Market has been fully designed
       and is operating in trial mode, producing invoices for electricity purchased on the
       Balancing Market and reconciliation statements of sold and purchased balancing
       electricity. The Balancing Market still operates in trial mode, primarily because
       the GOK considers the availability of flexible load following generation to be
       inadequate to launch the Balancing Market at this time. Once additional
       generation capacity is added in the near future, including the Moinak Hydropower
       Plant now close to full completion, the Balancing Market is expected to be
       launched live.

3.3 Efficiency

Because the Bank-financed investment represented one segment of a three-phase overall
transmission line project, the economic and financial analysis in the PAD examined the
viability of these investments in the context of the viability of the N/S transmission line
as a whole. This same approach has been adopted for the ex-post evaluation. At present,
the outlook in terms of economic and financial efficiency is fully satisfactory. The second
                                            11
N/S transmission line and SSs were completed on schedule, and while the economic costs
were slightly higher than projected at the time of Board presentation, the financial costs
were lower than projected owing to savings in taxes and efficiently administered
procurement by KEGOC. This was achieved despite a 23 percent depreciation in the
value of the KZT against the Euro and a 14 percent depreciation against the US$.
Incremental transmission and dispatch on the new line has exceeded forecasts, and
projections are that it will continue to do so as demand in the south continues to exceed
local supply. In addition, transmission losses have dropped from over 8.8 percent to 7.6
percent and are likely to fall going forward. Tariffs have declined slightly in real terms
since the start of the project. However, at current levels, they are sufficient to provide
satisfactory financial returns.

The expected financial and economic returns of the project are described in Annex 3.
Based on current projections, the expected FIRR of the project is 7.2 percent, and the
financial NPV (at KEGOC’s WACC of 5.8 percent) is US$51 million. The expected
EIRR of the project is 15.5%, and the economic NPV at a 10% discount rate is US$111
million.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project is considered to have been Satisfactory in terms of overall outcome. As
discussed above, the PDO remains highly relevant to the priorities of both the GOK and
the Bank/IFC CPS for FY12-FY17. The PDO outcome indicator target has been achieved,
and most of the intermediate outcome indicator targets have also been achieved. The
economic and financial benefits of the Project have been substantial, and the original
Project was completed earlier than planned and with substantial cost savings. The only
issue still to be addressed is that the Balancing Market has been operating since 2008 on a
trial basis only. The Balancing Market has been fully designed and KEGOC is waiting
for the GOK go-ahead to go live. It is expected that after sufficient new load following
generation (including the Moinak HPP) comes on stream in 2012, GOK will give the
green light to make the Balancing Market fully operational.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project has enhanced the well-being of the population in southern Kazakhstan by (i)
providing increased, reliable and low-cost supply of electricity from the north; (ii)
removing a binding energy supply constraint to continued economic growth in the region;
and (iii) increasing the region’s competitiveness with related benefits in terms of
employment and income. Although not solely attributable to the project, there have been
significant reductions in poverty and unemployment in southern Kazakhstan. Poverty
dropped, on average, by 61 percent, and extreme poverty dropped by 76 percent in the
four regions of southern Kazakhstan. The unemployment rate in southern Kazakhstan
was reduced on average by 25 percent. (See tables on poverty and unemployment in
Annex 3.)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

                                              12
The Bank’s engagement with KEGOC and the GOK in the energy sector over many years
beginning with the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project in 1999 has
significantly contributed to the operational and institutional capacity of KEGOC and the
energy sector as a whole. Kazakhstan has become a model for other CIS countries,
having created an efficient, profitable and commercially oriented Grid Operator, a
reasonably effective sector Regulator and a competitive power market within the
framework of an overall sound institutional and legal framework. Generally speaking, the
country and its institutions have established a solid foundation under the N/S
Transmission Project for expansion and development to meet the electricity needs of a
rapidly growing economy. Under the N/S Project, KEGOC’s PMD gained additional
experience with Bank procedures for financial management, procurement and
disbursement and introduced a new computerized accounting system to automate FMR
reporting. KEGOC staff received extensive advanced training from the vendors and
suppliers in installation, operation and maintenance of the sophisticated systems and
equipment provided under the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

After its successful physical completion, the N/S Electricity Transmission Project,
through the restructuring in 2009 that transferred the unfinished automation of SS
component from the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project, helped to
satisfactorily complete the project, after it closed on June 15, 2009. The two transmission
projects were closely linked and served the same key objective of improving the
reliability and quality of electricity supply to businesses and households. Because the SSs
are connected to the integrated national grid, the N/S line could not operate efficiently
and reliably without modernizing all the SSs.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Not applicable)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate for the reasons given below:
    Technical risks: Negligible to Low. The technologies introduced under the project
      are well established, tested, and technically relatively simple. KEGOC’s staff is
      fully trained. The companies – suppliers of the equipment – are present in the
      Kazakhstan market.
    Financial Risks: Moderate. The sector regulator has consistently granted tariff
      increases to cover KEGOC’s full operating costs and the parent company,
      Samruk-Kazyna is committed to provide additional equity injections to cover any
      potential liquidity shortfalls associated with KEGOC’s ambitious investment
      program. The company’s overall financial position is solid, and there was no
      problem with KEGOC’s own financing of the project. However, it cannot be
      totally excluded that KEGOC’s future tariff request increases might not be
      approved.
    Environmental Risks: Negligible to Low. The EA rating of category B reflected
      appropriately the initial assessment that the environmental risks were of limited
      and manageable scope. KEGOC fully complied with the requirements.

                                            13
      Governance Risks: Moderate. KEGOC has benefited in the past from a strong and
       capable management team, which has enjoyed the support of the GOK agencies
       responsible for overall policy setting. As a result, the commercial focus of the
       company has been exemplary and political interference minimal. In February
       2012, KEGOC informed the Bank that it is included in the GOK’s “People’s IPO?
       program for selected major state-owned enterprises under which the company
       shares will be floated in the stock market for purchase by the general public and
       pension funds. In the first half of 2013, KEGOC is expected to float from 5 to 15
       percent of its shares on the stock market. While this development is expected to
       strengthen the corporate governance practice, the IPO may introduce a new
       element of uncertainty as to how KEGOC will manage its affairs going forward.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is
rated Satisfactory.

The project was prepared in a short time, with 4.5 months from the Concept Review to
Board approval, and minimal budget costs (about US$96,000).

The proposed technical solutions under the project were sound and relied on simple and
well-tested technologies. Project design took into account experience of the earlier
Transmission Rehabilitation Project and other similar projects in the ECA region. The
project was underpinned by sound technical, economic and financial analysis. The Bank
mobilized a team with all the necessary skills including specialists in electricity markets,
engineering, procurement, environment and financial management. The team included
staff with long experience in the energy, finance/financial management and environment
sectors in Kazakhstan. The Bank team correctly assessed KEGOC’s implementation,
financial management and procurement capacity as adequate based on capacity
assessments and KEGOC’s experience acquired under the prior Rehabilitation Project,
but also recommended measures to enhance its capacity such as hiring a project
management consultant and using a turn-key contract for the major contract. The Bank
environmental specialist adequately identified the limited environmental impacts and
verified that the EMP had adequate arrangements for mitigation and monitoring the
environmental impacts and that there was adequate public consultation during project
preparation. The combination of solid skills and experience enabled the Bank team to
develop a good working relationship with KEGOC, GOK and the cofinanciers. The risk
assessment was thorough and identified appropriate risk mitigation measures.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance during supervision is rated Satisfactory. Supervision missions
were carried out regularly and included appropriate expertise, with 11 supervision

                                            14
missions, plus one in December 2011, immediately after the project closing date. Issues
were promptly identified and corrective measures taken. The Bank team proactively
observed the situation on the ground and made the required project adjustments to ensure
that project achieved its development outcome. Adherence to the EMP was monitored
regularly by the Bank’s environmental specialist, and fiduciary management was
monitored by the Bank’s financial management and procurement specialists. The same
task team was active throughout project implementation, and monitored project
implementation and results with a budget below the average supervision budget in FYs
10-12 because the same experienced team was responsible for preparation and
supervision of the other projects in the energy portfolio in Kazakhstan (Annex 4). The
Bank task team developed and implemented the solution to transfer the slow-moving SS
rehabilitation component under the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project to the
N/S Electricity Transmission Project. This solution used the cost savings under the N/S
Project to complete the vital SS modernization project. The Bank maintained a
collaborative relationship with the client and was regarded as a trusted partner, as
indicated in the client’s assessment (Annex 7). During supervision the task team closely
coordinated with other donors involved in the sector, which was especially important
since the Bank-financed Phase II of the overall three-phase N/S Transmission Line
Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory, based on the satisfactory rating for
ensuring quality at entry and the satisfactory rating for quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The N/S Transmission Project enjoyed strong support from the GOK, which is the
ultimate owner of KEGOC (through Samruk-Kazyna), throughout project preparation and
implementation. GOK’s strong commitment to the Project is evidenced by its willingness
to offer a sovereign guarantee. During preparation, the GOK timely approved the
feasibility study, authorized KEGOC to arrange loan financing, and supported adjustment
of the transmission tariffs in order to ensure that KEGOC was able to finance the project
and repay the debts. ARNM consistently approved the tariff increases necessary to
finance the project during project implementation. GOK fulfilled the project specific
covenants of its Guarantee Agreement, namely (a) ensure that KEGOC’s tariffs are
maintained at levels sufficient to fully cover the company’s cash flow requirements; (b)
approve by the first quarter of 2006 the implementation of a transmission tariff-setting
methodology based on the concept of zonal tariffs; (c) establish by December 31, 2007, a
real-time balancing market to be operated by KEGOC based on transparent market rules;
and (d) cause KEGOC to ensure the implementation of non-discriminatory third party
access to the North-South transmission line, including access to export-and international
transit-related services, based on published tariffs, applicable to all customers, and to be
applied fairly and without discrimination between customers.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
                                            15
KEGOC satisfactorily implemented the original Project on time and under budget. It
developed and followed the Project Implementation Plan. It consistently complied with
the covenants in the Loan Agreement, including the submission of quarterly FMRs and
annual financial audits, as well as with the financial covenants. KEGOC prepared an
Environmental Management Plan for each transmission line segment and implemented an
effective environmental monitoring system for the required mitigation actions at each
stage of the project. In September 2007, KEGOC provided a comprehensive Mid-Term
Review, which was reviewed by the Bank team and found to be satisfactory. There were
no issues associated with fiduciary or safeguards aspects. KEGOC successfully utilized
the technical experience gained under the earlier and more complex Electricity
Transmission Rehabilitation Project to implement this Project successfully. KEGOC
provided a team of highly qualified personnel specializing in technical, commercial and
financial issues, including translators, under its PMD.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory due to the satisfactory
performance of both the GOK and KEGOC.

6. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from the design and implementation of the project as well as
from its achievements are the following:

       Continuity of Bank and Borrower staff helps to create mutual respect and
        understanding which in turn facilitates resolution of problems that arise during
        implementation.
       Close involvement of an experienced Borrower/Implementing Agency in project
        design, together with attentiveness to their views, helps to build a cooperative
        relationship between the Bank and the Borrower/Implementing Agency.
       Continuous donor coordination and allocation of resources can result in
        expeditious implementation of a large project.
       Flexible load following generation capacity should be developed and made
        available before the launch of a balancing market.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No issues were raised by the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers
Comments were requested from the co-financing institution, Development Bank of
Kazakhstan, but none have been received to date.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable


                                           16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Appraisal Estimate    Actual (USD              Percentage of
          Components
                                  (USD millions)       millions)                Appraisal
 A. Construction of Ekibastuz-
                                       113.81              84.54                        74
Agadyr Transmission Line
 B. Extension/Modernization of
                                        13.16              10.46                        79
Ekibastuz SS (including PLC)
 C. Extension/Modernization of
                                        32.72              32.65                        99
Agadyr SS (including PLC)
 D. Technical Assistance                 0.90               0.59                        66
 E. Modernization of
Transmission SSs (component              0.00              13.99
added in 2009)

             Total Baseline Cost            160.59               142.23                 89
Physical Contingencies (average
contingencies of 4% added to base
                                              0.00                 0.00
cost, except TA, at appraisal)
Price Contingencies (average 3%
price contingencies added to base
                                              0.00                 0.00
cost at appraisal)
              Total Project Costs           160.59               142.23                 89
Project Preparation Fund                      0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee for IBRD                        0.25                 0.25                100
      Total Financing Required              160.84               142.48                 89


(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal
                                                                        Actual
                                           Type of        Estimate                 Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                                (USD
                                         Cofinancing        (USD                    Appraisal
                                                                       millions)
                                                          millions)
 Borrower (KEGOC)                                      4.30         2.30           53
 European Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       13.14        0.00           0
and Development
Development Bank of Kazakhstan
                                                       43.40        42.10          97
(DBK)
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       100.00       98.08          98
and Development




                                               17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The overall three-phase N/S Transmission Line Project was completed in 2009 on
schedule. The objectives set out for each component under Phase II (N/S Electricity
Transmission Project, financed by the Bank, KEGOC and DBK, were achieved.

Component A: Construction of a 500 kV, single circuit overhead transmission line
from air-insulated SS Ekibastuz (1,150/500 kv) to air-insulated SS Agadyr (500 kV),
including a Fiber Optic Communication Line (FOCL), 462.57 km in length.
Construction of the second 500 kV AC power transmission line was completed in 2009
and was the lowest cost and most economic alternative to supply reliable power to the
southern regions of Kazakhstan.

Component B: Extension/Modernization of 1,150/500 kV Ekibastuz air-insulated
SS. The component involved expanding the existing 1,150/500 kV SS by three bays and
installation of shunt reactors to accommodate the new 500 kV link with the Agadyr SS.
The component included installation of SF6 circuit breakers, disconnect switches, current
and voltage transformers, three single-phase shunt reactors, SS automation and protective
relaying as well as a Power Line Carrier (PLC). Installation of the shunt reactors
improved the stability of the power grid and regulated voltage conditions of the
transmission system.

Component C: Extension/Modernization of 500 kV Agadyr air-insulated SS
involved expanding the 500 kV SS by six bays to accommodate the new 500 kV links
with the Ekibastuz and YukGRES SSs. The work included installation of SF6 circuit
breakers, disconnect switches, current and voltage transformers, shunt reactors and SS
automation and protective relaying as well as PLC equipment. Installation of the shunt
reactors improved the stability of the power grid and regulated voltage conditions of the
transmission system.

Component D: Technical Assistance.
D.1: Consultant services for project management for the construction of the 500 kV OHL.
Services included advisory services to KEGOC in procurement and management of the
project during the implementation of the 500 kV transmission line from Ekibastuz to
Agadyr.

D.2: Consultant services for transmission sector reform included consultant services in
support of establishing a real time balancing market and adoption of zonal transmission
tariffs. The real time Balancing Market has been operating in trial mode since January
2008, undergoing comprehensive performance testing and fine-tuning based on market
participant feedback. It cannot start live operation until there is a quick responding
surplus generation capacity in the system. The zonal transmission tariffs were
implemented in 2006 and maintained until mid-2010, when they were replaced with a
more efficient tariff methodology reflecting the removal of severe transmission line
bottlenecks (as a result of the N/S Electricity Transmission Project and other grid-
enhancing investments). The tariff structure is transparent and covers justifiable costs and
a regulated rate of return.


                                            18
Component E: Modernization of Transmission SSs (new component added by
amendment of January 22, 2009 to complete the SS modernization begun but not
completed under the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project). This component
modernized protective relaying and SS automation, including supply and installation of
monitoring and control equipment for a total of 67 SSs (including 40 financed by the
earlier Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project, 8 begun under the Electricity
Transmission Rehabilitation Project but completed and commissioned under the N/S
Transmission Project and 19 financed by the N/S Project). This allowed centralized
monitoring and control of the High Voltage Network.




                                         19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Because the Bank-financed investments represented one segment of a three-phase overall
transmission line project, the economic and financial analysis at the time of Board
presentation examined the viability of these investments in the context of the viability of
the N/S transmission line as a whole. This same approach has been adopted for the ex-
post evaluation.

Assumptions

The table below lists the assumptions used in the economic and financial analysis of the
project, as well as the source of the data.

Item                                   Assumption                      Source

Financial cost of project              44.07 billion KZT               KEGOC
Economic cost of project               40.67 billion KZT               KEGOC
Period of analysis                     2006 - 2030                     PAD
Transmission Losses on N/S line
 - before project                      9.15%                           KEGOC
 - current                             7.6%                            KEGOC
 - projected                           6.5%                            KEGOC
Incremental O&M (including             1.1% of capital                 PAD
property taxes)
Major maintenance
 - lines                               0.2% of capital every 5 years   PAD
 - substations                         1% off capital every 5 years    PAD
Incremental transmission volume
on new line
 - 2011 actual                         2,121 MWh/yr                    KEGOC
 - 2015 projected                      3,800 MWh/yr                    KEGOC
Average annual growth in               2.5%                            KEGOC business
transmission volumes                                                   plan
Reduction in system-wide               1%                              KEGOC
transmission losses
Transmission plus dispatch tariff to   1.071 KZT/kWh                   ARNM Tariff
Southern Kazakhstan                                                    Decree, July 11,
                                                                       2011
Marginal cost of coal-fired            1.1 KZT/kWh                     Estimate based on
generation                                                             prior studies
Customer willingness to pay            3.9 KZT/kWh                     Wholesale tariff in
                                                                       Southern
                                                                       Kazakhstan
Exchange rate                          146.6 KZT/USD                   National Bank of
                                                                       Kazakhstan
CPI                                    2006 - 116.6                    National Bank of
                                       2011 - 185.6                    Kazakhstan




                                                20
Project Costs

For the financial analysis, the project costs were assumed to include the following: (i) the
financial capital cost of the project, (ii) annual operating and maintenance costs,
including wages, materials and property taxes, (iii) periodic major maintenance of lines
and SSs and (iv) the cost of technical losses on incremental volumes transmitted on the
new line (KEGOC is responsible for paying for transmission losses, and purchases them
from the low-cost coal fired thermal plants in the north, or on the spot market). The
economic analysis was based on the same set of costs except that (i) taxes were excluded
from the capital costs, and (ii) property taxes were excluded from the annual operating
and maintenance expenditures.

The capital costs of the project, as well as other costs incurred to date, were brought to
2011 levels based on the CPI. Future costs were assumed to be constant in real terms.

Project Benefits

The primary financial benefit of the project is the tariff revenue on the incremental
volumes transmitted over the N/S line. These were valued at the current tariff for
transmission plus dispatch. Other financial benefits include (i) the avoided cost of paying
regional distribution companies (REKs) for bypass during line maintenance; this was
averaging KZT210 million/year prior to the project; and (ii) a reduction in transmission
losses throughout the interconnected KEGOC transmission system. The savings in losses
were valued at the marginal cost of coal-fired generation from the northern generating
stations.

The primary economic benefits of the project accrue through the availability of additional
low-cost power to customers in southern Kazakhstan. In the PAD, this was valued at the
average tariff paid by wholesale customers (primarily REKs) in the south, minus the
incremental cost of generation. The same approach was adopted for this report. This
avoids the need to allocate the consumer surplus accruing to end-users between the
transmission and distribution companies, although arguably the availability of sufficient
power in the south is due almost exclusively to the construction of the new transmission
line, and assigning only a part of the surplus to the project understates its benefits. The
other economic benefit of the project is the value of avoided transmission losses in the
overall KEGOC transmission system. As with the financial analysis, these were valued at
the marginal cost of coal-fired generation.

Results

Based on the above assumptions and methodology, the FIRR of the project is estimated
to be 7.2%. Using KEGOCs weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 5.8% as a
discount rate, the NPV as of 2011 is KZT 7.47 billion or US$51 million. This compares
with 8% and US$71 million estimated in the PAD.

The estimated EIRR of the project is 15.5%, and the NPV at a 10% discount rate is KZT
16.2 billion or US$111 million. This compares with an estimated EIRR of 21.4% in the
PAD and an NPV of US$204 million.


                                            21
Other Considerations
There are a number of other benefits of the project which were not included in the
original analysis and have also not been included here, owing primarily to lack of
adequate data. Nevertheless, they are significant and warrant mention. On the financial
side, these benefits include the avoided costs to KEGOC of what were frequent
emergency repairs to the old and overloaded N/S transmission line, as well as the
ancillary damages associated with forced outages. On the economic side, benefits include
avoided customer costs associated with forced outages and the need to maintain backup
generation, as well as the costs of equipment damage resulting from voltage and
frequency fluctuations. Over the longer term, by facilitating the transfer of low-cost
surplus power from the north, the N/S line delays the need for investments in additional
generating capacity in the south, or, in the event that such investments are not
forthcoming, defers the time at which the existing system is no longer able to meet the
growing needs of customers in Almaty and adjacent regions, thus potentially leading to
forced outages and unmet demand.
Although not solely attributable to the project, there have been significant reductions in
poverty and unemployment in southern Kazakhstan. Poverty dropped, on average, by 61
percent, and extreme poverty dropped by 76 percent in the four regions of southern
Kazakhstan..
Poverty
                            2006      2007        2008      2009      2010
Kazakhstan                    18.2       12.7       12.1       8.2        6.5
Almaty region                 21.3       18.1       20.1      15.5        6.6
Jambyl region                 23.6        9.9       11.3       4.8        5.3
South-Kazakhstan region       14.1       14.3       13.0      11.7       11.5
City of Almaty                12.1        8.5       13.7       3.0        2.6

Extreme Poverty
                            2006      2007        2008      2009      2010
Kazakhstan                     2.7        1.4        1.2        0.6       0.4
Almaty region                  3.4        3.1        4.0        1.6       0.1
Jambyl region                  3.0        0.6        0.5          -         -
South-Kazakhstan region        1.6        1.0        0.8        0.5       1.3
City of Almaty                 0.8        0.5        0.6        0.1       0.1


Since 2006, the unemployment rate in the southern regions of Kazakhstan was reduced
by on the average 25%.

Unemployment
                           2005       2006        2007     2008       2009      2010
Kazakhstan                    8.1        7.8         7.3      6.6        6.6       5.8
Almaty region                 7.3        7.1         6.7      6.4        6.5       5.6
Jambyl region                 9.8        9.2         7.7      6.5        6.5       5.7
South-Kazakhstan
region                        7.5         7.2        6.9       6.6        6.6       5.9
City of Almaty                8.4         8.2        7.8       7.4        7.7       6.3

                                             22
Conclusion
At present, the outlook in terms of economic and financial efficiency is fully satisfactory.
The new transmission line and related SSs were completed on schedule, and while the
economic costs were slightly higher than projected in the PAD, the financial costs were
lower than projected owing to savings in taxes and efficiently administered procurement.
This was achieved despite 23% depreciation in the value of the KZT against the Euro and
14% depreciation against the US$. Incremental transmission and dispatch on the new
line has exceeded forecasts, and projections are that it will continue to do so as demand in
the south continues to exceed local supply. In addition, transmission losses have dropped
from over 9% to 7.6% and are projected to further decline. Transmission tariffs have
declined slightly in real terms since the start of the project. However, at current levels,
they are sufficient to provide satisfactory financial returns. Overall, the project is on a
sound footing in terms of both financial and economic viability.




                                            23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                              Responsibility/
                 Names                                       Title                 Unit
                                                                                                Specialty
Lending
                                        Lead Energy Economist and Task Team
Istvan Dobozi                                                                     ECSIE Energy Economist
                                        Leader
Rene G. Mendonca                        Consultant                                ECSIE    Power Engineer
Margaret A. Wilson                      Consultant                                ECSIE    Financial Analyst
Leonid Vanian                           Sr. Procurement Specialist                ECSPS    Procurement
Bernard Baratz                          Consultant                                ECSIE    Environment
Hannah M. Koilpillai                    Finance Officer                           LOAG1    Finance
John Otieno Ogallo                      Lead Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS    Fin. Mgt.
Anarkan Akerova                         Counsel                                   LEGEC    Legal
 Yukari Tsuchiya                        Program Assistant                         ECSIE    Program Assistant
Supervision/ICR
 Istvan Dobozi                            Task Team Leader                       SEGES     Energy Economist
Mirlan Aldayarov                          Task Team Leader                        ECSS2    Energy Specialist
Ranjit J. Lamech                          Sector Manager                          ECSS2    Sector Manager
Charles M. Feinstein                      Sustainable Development Leader         EASINS    Economics
Rene G. Mendonca                          Consultant                             EASINS    Power Engineer
Norpulat Daniyarov                        Financial Management Specialist        ECSPS     Energy Economist
Yuling Zhou                               Lead Procurement Specialist            EAPPR     Procurement
Josephine Kida                            Program Assistant                       ECSS2    Program Assistant
Margaret A. Wilson                        Consultant                              ECSS2    Financial Analysis
Devesh Chandra Mishra                     Manager                                ECSQ2     Procurement
Sergio Augusto Gonzalez
                                          Sr. Power Engineer                      ECSS2 Power Engineer
Coltrinari
Imtiaz Hizkil                             Sr. Power Engineer                      ECSS2 Power Engineer
Jann Masterson                            Operations Officer                      ECSS2 Operations

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                            USD Thousands (including
                                                        No. of staff weeks4
                                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                                         43.35
  FY06                                                                                         52.80
                                        Total:                                                 96.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                                       109.09
  FY07                                                                                        96.42
  FY08                                                                                        82.30
  FY09                                                                                        95.18
  FY10                                                                                        47.51



4
    Not available. It is no longer possible to obtain staff week information.


                                                              24
FY11                  50.55
FY12                  47.13
       Total:        528.18




                25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(Not applicable)




                                      26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(Not applicable)




                                   27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Construction of the second North-South Electricity Transmission Line was one of the
important strategic investment projects in Kazakhstan’s power sector. High priority of
the project was highlighted in the 2008 Message to the People of Kazakhstan by N.
Nazarbayev, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The project was an integral part of
the power sector development strategy of the GOK.
The main objective of the project is to provide electricity supply to power deficit regions
of southern Kazakhstan by (i) increasing the transmission capacity from the north to the
south by up to 7.5 TWh a year; (ii) improving the reliability and safety of the National
Power Grid; and (iii) strengthening the synchronous interconnected operation of
integrated power systems of Russia, Kazakhstan and Central Asia.
The overall North-South project required the construction of three transmission line
sections and reconstruction and rehabilitation of SSs. The total length of the 500 kV
Second North-South Transmission Line is 1,097.93 km. The project implementation
period was 2004- 2009.
Project implementation included the following specific works:
•   Construction of the first and second line sections from 2006 to 2008:
     construction of 500 kV OHTL YuKGRES SS – Shu SS, 248.11 km (financed
      from an EBRD loan of US$60 million;
     construction of 500 kV OHTL Ekibastuz SS – Agadyr SS, 462.57 km (IBRD
      loan of US$100 million);
     500 kV YuKGRES SS extension and rehabilitation;
     500 kV Shu SS construction;
     500 kV Almaty SS rehabilitation;
     1150/500 kV Ekibastuzskaya SS extension and rehabilitation; and
     500 kV Agadyr SS extension and rehabilitation.
•   Construction of the third line section, 500 kV OHTL Agadyr – YuKGRES, 386.23
    km from 2007 to 2009 (EBRD loan of US$87.8 million).
•   Implementation of the emergency automation facilities of UPS of Kazakhstan
    required by the second North-South transmission line.
•   KEGОС staff training. From 2007 to 2009, in the course of project implementation
    70 employees of the company received training under several vendor contracts. From
    2007 to 2009, 96 employees participated in factory tests of line equipment and FOCL.
•   Pursuant to the legal agreements concluded with the financing banks, KEGОС
    developed an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for each transmission line
    section. The plan was prepared in compliance with IBRD and EBRD requirements
    and environmental protection regulations of Kazakhstan. The company implemented
    the effective environment monitoring system for the required mitigation actions at
    each stage of the project.



                                            28
The high national importance of the project was demonstrated by the fact that the
commissioning ceremony of the second North-South Transmission Line was carried out
on 17 September 2009 in the presence of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Thanks to the qualified work of engineering, procurement and finance specialists and the
World Bank team, the construction of the transmission line section Ekibastuz SS –
Agadyr SS was completed in advance of the scheduled date and with cost savings.
The separate line sections were financed by IBRD and EBRD under the loan agreements
which KEGOC concluded with IBRD (US$ 100 million) and EBRD (US$ 147.8 million).
Additionally, US$2.7 million was used from savings under the EBRD loan provided for
the previous Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project. Procedures of selecting
contractors for design, construction and commissioning of the transmission lines (“turn-
key?) and consultancy services were carried out in compliance with the rules and
procedures of the two international financing institutions.
The supply of high-voltage equipment and civil work at the SSs were financed by
Development Bank of Kazakhstan (US$21 million and KZT 6,970.13 million).
KEGOC’s own funds were also used for project financing.
In total, US$318.64 million loan was obtained for the entire North-South project. Based
on the actual data, US$303.52 million were disbursed from the loan proceeds.
To liaise with the international financial institutions, IBRD and EBRD, and the
contractors involved in the project a team of highly qualified personnel specializing in
technical, commercial and financial issues, including translators providing the
professional communication level with foreign partners, was formed under the Project
Management Department (PMD).
One of the drivers of project implementation success was the corporate and project
governance designed in accordance with the best international practice.
In 2011, based on the audit results of the Integrated Management System of KEGOC,
NDC, 9 branches of interregional electric networks (MES) and Energoinform JSC, the
Integrated Management System of KEGOC was confirmed as complying with the
requirements of ISO 9001-2008, ISO14001-2004 and OHSAS 18001-2007. The validity
period of ISO 9001-2008 and ISO14001-2004 certificates was extended for the next three
years.
During implementation of the project, the company took into account and used the
project management and monitoring experience, which was acquired during
implementation of the highly complex Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project.
Successful implementation of the North-South project and the previous Electricity
Transmission Rehabilitation Project as well as KEGОС’s reputation as a reliable and
financially stable partner, enabled the company to raise substantial financial resources
from international financial institutions.
In terms of lessons learnt from the project for future investment projects, we would like
to mention the following:
-   In terms of timely project preparation and implementation and cost effectiveness, the
    best solution in the case of large-scale and complex projects is to use turn-key
    contracts.


                                           29
-   Regarding procurement procedures, it must be taken into account that achievement of
    the bidding stage deadlines (approval of prequalification evaluation reports and bid
    results, short-listing, etc.) by the financing banks and the company management is
    heavily affected by their respective administrative approval procedures.
-   The automation of financial reports submitted to IBRD shall be completed to shorten
    the report preparation period and reduce the risk of human errors.
-   Exchange rate fluctuations can result in the unplanned increase of expenses.
-   During project preparation and implementation, the translation of materials
    (English/Russian) for KEGOC internal review and submission to the corresponding
    regulatory and supervisory state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan is required.
    Therefore, the time requirement for translation of documents during their preparation
    must be properly taken into account. The translation quality is critical for quality
    interaction with project partners, particularly regarding the appropriate financial, legal
    and technical terminology. Maintenance of translation unit in the PMD shall ensure
    the required quality of communication and documentation, and the number of
    translators shall cover the work load of the project implementation group.
We believe that project implementation to a large extent owes its success to the fact that
the IBRD team, which was involved in the project, consisted of highly professional
specialists in finance, economics, engineering and procurement. Thanks to the timely and
qualified assistance of the World Bank specialists at all project stages it was possible to
effectively solve the problems encountered in the shortest possible time.




                                             30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The request for comments was sent to DBK, which, however, has not responded.




                                         31
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      Project Appraisal Document
      Loan Agreement between IBRD and Joint Stock Company “Kazakhstan
       Electricity Grid Operating Company, dated 2005
      Guarantee Agreement between Republic of Kazakhstan and IBRD, dated 2005
      Project Implementation Plan. Construction of North-South 500 kV Second
       Overhead Transmission Line, KEGOC, 2004
      KEGOC’s Mid-Term Project Report, Construction of 500 kV Second
       Transmission Line of Kazakhstan North-South Transit, September 30, 2007.
      Project Restructuring Paper
      Implementation Status Reports
      Mission Aide-Memoires
      KEGOC’s Annual Reports, 2007-2011
      Statistical Digest “Regions of Kazakhstan?, Statistical Agency of the Republic of
       Kazakhstan, 2011, ISBN 9965-9315-2-6
      Statistical Digest “Kazakhstan During Independence 1991-2010?, Statistical
       Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2011




                                           32
                                                                                                                                                     KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                      NORTH-SOUTH ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PROJECT
                                                                                SUBSTATIONS:                                                WORLD BANK FUNDED PROJECT                                          PROJECT SUBSTATIONS UNDER PHASE II
                                   KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                               TRANMISSION LINE (PHASE II OF THE                 EKIBASTUZ        OF THE NORTH/SOUTH TRANSMISSION
                                                                                    1150 kV
                                                                                                                                            NORTH/SOUTH TRANSMISSION LINE)                                     PROJECT
                                                                                    500 kV
                                                                                                                                            TRANSMISSION LINE FOR THE                                          SUBSTATIONS FOR THE
                                                                                    220 kV                                                  NON-WORLD BANK FINANCED                                            NON-WORLD BANK FINANCED
                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHU
                                                                                                                                            PART OF THE NORTH/SOUTH                                            PART OF THE NORTH/SOUTH
                                                                                THERMAL POWER PLANTS                                        TRANSMISSION PROJECT                                               TRANSMISSION PROJECT
                                                                                HYDRO POWER PLANTS                                          TRANSMISSION LINES:                                                NATIONAL CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                              1150 kV                                                          MAJOR RIVERS

                                                                                                                                              500 kV                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                              220 kV




                                               50°                                    60°                                             70°                                                 80°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90°
                                                                                                                                                   Irtysh


                                                                                                R U S S I A N                                       F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Altai
                                                            Kama
                                                                                                                                                                 Omsk                                                            Barnaul
                                                                                                                                             Petropavlovsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ob
                                                                                                                                                  Aurora

                                                                                                                                                   Kokshetau                                                                 Rutsovsk                                        50°
                                                                                                                                                                              Pavlodar
                                                                                                                Kostanay                                          EKIBASTUZ
                                                                                                                                                                                         Ir t



                                                                                                                                                                                                h
                                                                                                                                                                                          ys



                                                                                               Sokol                                                                                                                                     Oskemen

                                                                                                                                                                  ASTANA
                                                                     Ura                                                   Esyl
                                                                         l                    Dzhetyara                                           Akmola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lake
               50°                   Stepnaya                                                                                                                                                                                           Zaisan
                                           Zh a
                                               iyk




                                                                             Ulke
                                                   (Ural)




                                                                                                                                                                             AGADYR
             Vo
                lga




                                                                                                                                              Zhezkazgan
                                                                             K A Z A K H S T A N
                                                                                                                                                                   Saryshaghan           Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                         Balkash

                                                                                                                                                                        YUKGRES


                                                                                     Aral                                         Kyzyl-Orda                                                          Almaty
                                                                                                                                                                                SHU
                                                                                     Sea            2002 LEVEL OF
                                                                                                      ARAL SEA                                                   Zhambyl                            BISHKEK
                                 Aktau                                                                                             Syr
                                                                                                                                      -D                                                                        Lake Issyk-Kul
                                                                                                                                        ar
                                                                                                                                             ya                               Taraz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                1990 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA                                                                                          N ar y                                                      40°
                            Caspian
                                                                                               1960 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                                                  Shymkent          KYRGYZ
                                                                                                    UZBEKISTAN                                                                      REPUBLIC
                              Sea                                                                                                            TASHKENT

             AZERB. BAKU                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHINA
               40°
                                                                                                                                                      Tashkent
                                                                      T UR KM EN IS TA N
                                                                                Dashovuz
                                                                                                                                                  DUSHANBE
                                                                                                                                                                        TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                     Turkmenabat
                                                                                                                                                                                    Khorugh
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lochin
                                                                              ASHGABAT
                                                                                                                                            Termez

                                                                                                                                       Sogdiana

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the Map Design Unit of The
                                 TEHRAN                                                                                                                                                                                                            World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                 ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                                                           colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   any other information shown

                                                               REP. OF IRAN                                                  AFGHANISTAN                                KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33971




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   legal status of any territory,
                             0    100    200           300     400   500
JJULY 2005




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or any endorsement or

                      50°                KILOMETERS                                     60°                                                                                   70°
                                                                                                                                                                                     PAKISTAN                                                      acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   boundaries.
