Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-73 16-GE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 44.3 MILLION (US$ 60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
June 4, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only.in t
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed with(
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of end-May 1999)
Currency Unit    =    Lari
US$1    =    1.985 Laris
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP   -  Agricultural Development Project
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CERMA   -  Center for Restructuring and Management Assistance
CG   -  Consultative Group
CIS   -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAC   -  Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
ESAF   -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW   -  Economic and Sector Work
EU   -  European Union
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
LDP   -  Letter of Development Policy
LTI  -  Large Taxpayer Inspectorate
MIGA   -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MSPM   -  Ministry of State Property Management
NBG   -  National Bank of Georgia
NGO   -  Non Government Organization
POC   -  Permanent Oversight Commission
RTI  -  Regional Tax Inspectorates
SAC   -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SCD   -  State Customs Department
SD   -  Statistics Department
SDLM   -  State Department of Land Management
SMIC   -  State Medical Insurance Company
STDG   -  State Tax Department of Georgia
STF   -  Special Task Force
TBC   -  Tbilisi Credit Bank
TIG   -  Tbilisi Inspectorate of Georgia
VAT   -  Value Added Tax
GEORGIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:                                  Johannes Linm, ECAVP
Director:                                       Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
_ Sector Leader                                   Atman Aksoy, ECSPE
Re ible Staff:                                   Leila Zlaoui, Task Manager, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GEORGIA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance
Amount:              SDR 44.3 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA, with 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:     A variable rate of 0.0-0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance, set annually by the
Executive Directors of IDA
Project ID Number:   GE-PE-52153
Objectives:         To support the implementation of the Government's reform program to reduce
macroeconomic imbalances, and to provide an adequate incentive structure for the
private sector development. The program includes measures to (i) strengthen the fiscal
performance while lessening the adverse impact of stabilization on the poor by ensuring
budgetary provisions for basic health care, education and social protection; (ii) improve
legislation and regulatory framework favorable to private sector growth; and (iii)
complete the process of ownership change and market liberalization.
Benefits:           The proposed credit would provide the Government of Georgia with financial support
to maintain the momentum of reforms and deepen the reform process in key areas
essential to the sustainability of growth. The balance of payment and budgetary support
would finance imports critical to economic activity and the rehabilitation of the capital
base. The credit would ease the fiscal adjustment and enhance budgetary resources to
allow provision of basic social protection.
Poverty:            The credit is poverty-focused, and in line with the main conclusions of the recently
completed Poverty Assessment for Georgia would aim at reducing poverty by
supporting policies designed to (a) accelerate broad-based income growth, (b) improve
the quality of basic social services, and (c) sharpen the targeting of social assistance.
Risks:              Three potential risks threaten the implementation of the program supported by this
credit: (i) further deterioration of the political and security environment could distract
Government attention from implementation of key reforms and worsen an already tight
fiscal situation; (ii); special interest groups benefiting from the status-quo could
succeed in delaying implementation of key fiscal or private sector development
reforms; (iii) more generally, there is a significant risk of policy reversal if anti-market
forces start prevailing due to increased regional and political instability
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents
I.    Recent Developments and Economic Prospects                                        ..1.............................. 
A. Recent Developments ............................................................1
B. Medium-Term  Prospects and Financing Requirements .......................................... 4
II.      Georgia's Adjustment Program  ...........................................................                                       6
A. Public Finance ........... ,                                                                                                 7
B. Private Sector Development ...........................................................                                       9
III.    The Proposed Credit ...........................................................                                                 13
A. Rationale for the Credit ...........................................................                                       13
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy ................................... 13
C. Poverty Impact ............................................................ 19
D. Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements ............ 19
E. Benefits and Risks ...........................................................                                             19
IV.  Bank Operations ............................................................ 20
V.       Collaboration with Other Donors ...........................................................                                    21
VI.    Recommendation of the President ...........................................................                                       22
Annexes
Annex 1   Main Economic Indicators
Annex 2   Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3   Policy Matrix
Annex 4   Schedule A
Annex 5   Schedule D
Annex 6   Country At A Glance



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO GEORGIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to Georgia for SDR 44.3 million, the equivalent of US$ 60 million. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years. The
government's program aims at restoring macroeconomic balance, and strengthening the
environment for private sector-led growth.
2.    The credit is a key element of IDA's country assistance strategy (CAS). Georgia's
adjustment effort is also supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) through a three-year
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved in February 1996 and whose third
annual arrangement with access of SDR 55.5 million was approved on July 27,1998.
3.    Georgia became a member of IBRD in August 1992, MIGA in December 1992, and
became eligible for IDA terms in August 1993. It joined IFC in June 1995.
I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND ECONOMIC PROSPECTS
A. Recent Developments
4.   Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people in an area of 69,700 km2 bounded by Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Russia, Turkey and the Black Sea. It is strategically located as a trade and transit
corridor in the Caucasus, between Europe and Asia. Georgia declared independence from the
former Soviet Union (FSU) in 1991. Its economy was highly integrated within the FSU which
accounted for 86 percent of its external trade and most of its energy imports. Economic activity
revolved around Black Sea tourism; cultivation of citrus, fruits, tea and grapes; mining of
manganese and copper; and a small industrial sector producing wine, metals, machinery, chemical
and textiles. It benefited from a highly educated labor force, a long tradition of entrepreneurship,
substantial natural resources, a prosperous agricultural sector, and a significant underground
economy.
5.    The break-up of the ties with other FSU countries and widespread civil conflicts in
Abkhazia and South Ossetia led to the collapse of the Georgian economy. Between 1990 and 1995,
output fell by more than 70 percent as a result of disruptions in production, deteriorating terms of
trade driven mainly by sharp increases in energy costs, and shrinking domestic demand and export
markets. Capacity utilization in the industrial sector dropped to about 20 percent of its soviet times
level, heavy disruptions in agriculture took place and tourism was shut down. Significant external
debt and payment arrears were accumulated, while lax fiscal and monetary policies led to large
budget deficits and hyperinflation.
6.   Georgia entered the transition process with large macro economic imbalances and a heavy
legacy of long term issues bound to be at the center of its development agenda for the decade to
come. The legacy from the soviet area and the subsequent economic collapse was marked by: (i) a
large, energy intensive, and highly inefficient enterprise sector; (ii) an energy sector drastically
affected by civil war damage, disrepair, financial collapse and improper operation; (ii) its road and
port infrastructure- the backbone of its economy as a trade and transit corridor- heavily
handicapped by lack of maintenance and investment and poor management. With hindsight,



-2-
however, the most challenging legacy may have been the inadequate institutions lacking the
capacity needed for the transition to a well functioning market economy and the building of a
strong developmental state and active civil society.
7.    Cease fires agreements with South Ossetia in 1992 and Abkhazia in 1994 translated into an
abatement of internal conflicts and allowed the Government to embark on a comprehensive reform
program to rebuild the economy, with significant World Bank and IMF support. The Government
program relied on strict monetary control, reform of the tax system and sharp reduction in
subsidies, liberalization of prices, reform of the foreign exchange and trade regimes, reform of the
banking sector, and the maintenance of a minimal social safety net (see Box I below).
Box 1: Main economic reforms since 1994
The reform program launched in 1994 has brought about substantial
macroeconomic stabilization and moved the system towards a market
economy:
*  Exchange rate: for all commercial transactions, the exchange rates of
the Lari are negotiated freely between the banks, foreign exchange
bureaus and their customers.
* Price and trade liberalization: Most prices were liberalized except for
gas, electricity, some transportation and communication services and
pharmaceutical products; abolition of export taxes, quantitative
restrictions on imports and most licensing requirements.
*  Tax reform: rationalization of the tax system through the introduction
of a VAT at 20 percent, a two rates custom duty at 5 and 12 percent, the
unification of multiple corporate profit tax rates at 20 percent and a
reduction in payroll taxes from 35 to 33 percent.
*  Public spending: Elimination of over 20,000 budgetary positions
bringing an overall employment reduction in the public sector of about
40 percent; improved targeting of social benefits; reforms in the
provision of health and education services.
*  State enterprises; enactment of a privatization law, corporatization and
privatization of over 13000 enterprises.
*  Banking system: ; upgrading of prudential regulations and regulatory
framework and implementation of a comprehensive consolidation and
restructuring program which reduced the number of commercial banks
from 225 in 1995 to 44 by end-98.
* Legal and regulatory frameworkfor private sector development:
enactment of Tax and Custom codes; Law on customs tariffs; Law on
commercial banks; Law on entrepreneurs; Civil Code; Law on
monopoly activity and competition; Law on Bankruptcy; Law on
agricultural land ownership; registration and leasing.
8.   The program of structural reforms launched in 1994 and the accompanying fiscal and
monetary policies implemented by the Government were successful in restoring growth and
drastically improving internal and external imbalances. Following four years of deep recession, real
GDP growth resumed in 1995 and exceeded 10 percent in 1996 and 1997. Inflation which at its
peak reached 6500 percent was brought to single digit level by 1997. The fiscal deficit was reduced
from 20 percent of GDP in 1994 to 4.6 percent in 1997 and the current account deficit from 35



-3-
percent of GDP in 1994 to about 11 percent in 1997. The exchange rate which was used as a
nominal anchor against inflation remained broadly stable against the dollar until mid 1998.
9.   The situation deteriorated in 1998 as a result of internal security problems, a weak fiscal
stance and the external shock from the Russian crisis. The fiscal outlook changed with the
emergence very early in the year of serious difficulties due to a variety of factors including delays
in introducing a number of policy measures to broaden the tax base, further aggravated by weak tax
collection (see para.25). Exacerbated by unaccounted for refugees expenditure and the devastating
impact of the Russian crisis on the Georgian economy during the second half of the year, the weak
fiscal stance of the first six months of 1998 culminated into a fiscal crisis. Unable to meet its
revenue and expenditure targets, the Government undertook successive rounds of across the board
expenditure cuts and, despite the cuts, accumulated large payment arrears in particular to the health
sector. Tax revenues remained consistently below targets, covering only 64 percent of current
expenditures.
10.  The eruption of the Russian crisis in August 1998 led to a strong appreciation of the
Georgian Lari (GEL) against the Ruble, boosting the competitiveness of Russian products,
lowering the value in domestic currency of workers remittances and depriving Georgian exporters
from their primary market - Russia accounted for 30 percent of Georgia's exports before the crisis.
The volume of transit goods to Russia through Georgia is reported to have declined substantially
and the payment system deteriorated sharply. Real GDP growth decelerated sharply from 11
percent in 1997 to less than 3 percent in 1998 and exports which grew by a record high 26 percent
in 1997 declined by nearly 3 percent in 1998. The external shock coupled with the adverse
developments on the fiscal front made it clear that the prevailing exchange rate was not sustainable
and led to an acceleration of currency switching from the GEL to the dollar intensifying the
pressures on the foreign exchange market.
11. The response of the National Bank of Georgia to the external shock was to tighten monetary
policy through a variety of measures to eliminate excess demand pressure in the foreign exchange
market while pursuing a policy of intervention in support of a smooth and moderate depreciation of
the GEL. The weak fiscal stance, however, and the continuing wave of effects from the external
shock undermined the credibility of Government policies. The NBG efforts to support the currency
led to large losses in foreign reserves which dwindled from the equivalent of two months of
imports before the Russian crisis to about two weeks by end-November.
12. By the end of the year, however the Government took major steps to correct the internal and
external imbalances built-up in 1998. A set of revenue-enhancing measures were adopted in
November (see para. 26). In early December, the NBG announced its decision to stop intervention
and let the GEL float to reach a new equilibrium. Since then, the GEL has been fluctuating in the
range of 1.8 to 2.6 GEL to the dollar, the midpoint of which represents a 65 percent nominal
depreciation vis a vis the dollar compared to its level before the Russian crisis.
13.  Not surprisingly, overall economic performance in 1998 was weak. While real GDP growth
was strong during he first half of the year (8 percent compared to the same period in 1997), it
decelerated sharply during the second half. It is estimated now at 2.9 percent (less than half the
original target) for the whole year. The fiscal deficit (excluding grants) reached 4.9 percent of GDP
against a target of 2.7 percent and the current account deficit rose to 12 percent of GDP from 10.9
percent in 1997. Inflation which reached a record low 1 percent over the first 9 months rose
considerably following the depreciation of the GEL, reaching 11 percent in December. Because the
inflationary shock occurred by the end of the year, average inflation declined to 3.6 percent for
1998 from 7 percent in 1997.



-4-
14.   In view of the weak macroeconomic performance in 1998, the mid-term review discussions
of the IMF third annual ESAF arrangement could not be completed and agreement was reached in
January on the implementation of a shadow program through end-April 1999. The main prior
actions under the shadow program included expenditure arrears reduction, introduction of excise
stamps on cigarettes consolidating the VAT and excise tax, expanding the coverage of the large
taxpayer unit, eliminating current tax discrimination against imported alcoholic beverages,
adopting a 1999 budget consistent with the program's overall macroeconomic objectives,
submitting to parliament a draft on licensing, and implementing Capital Assets Management
Earnings and Liquidity (CAMEL) 4 and 5 related measures and minimum capital requirement for
commercial banks.
15.  Economic developments during the first quarter of 1999 are encouraging. Monetary and
credit trends were broadly in line with the program targets. In its attempt to minimize the increase
in inflation following the marked depreciation of the GEL towards the end of 1998 and early 1999,
the NBG respected the credit ceilings with a reasonably large margin. In addition the NBG
continued its policy of non-intervention in the foreign exchange markets. The target to expand
coverage of large taxpayers was met. The NBG continues to take appropriate steps to strengthen
the banking system.
16.  The fiscal performance, however, although improving, remains weak. Following the sharp
depreciation of the Ruble, the difficulties in tax collection have been complicated by a redirection
of trade, increased smuggling and a larger share of imports from Russia through regions that are
unstable politically and difficult to control administratively. Because of difficulties in collecting
taxes on imports (customs duties, excises and VAT), particularly on fuel imports, the target on
cumulative tax revenue through April 1999 was missed by 15.5 percent. Although the cumulative
target through end April is not reached the gap between actual collection and target is, however,
narrowing rapidly. For the month of April alone, the target was missed by 5.7 percent. In view of
the revenue shortfalls and with interest payments in excess of 20 percent of actual revenues, the
Government has continued to accumulate expenditure payment arrears. Because of the continued
weakness in fiscal policy, the track record period for the mid-term review of the ESAF was
extended by two months, through June 1999, to ensure that the improvements in revenue collection
are sustainable.
B. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
17.   In the current context, the sustainability of the growth process hinges upon adequate
macroeconomic policies in response to the shocks stemming from the Russian crisis, further
stabilization gains, further strides in the implementation of structural and institutional reforms, and
the mobilization of external resources on concessional terms to mitigate the crisis impact. In view
of the external shock to the economy, growth prospects for Georgia have diminished in the short
term. Under the combined influence of a sustained implementation of the Government's
adjustment program and adequate level of external aid, the Georgian economy could, however,
maintain real positive growth in the range of 2 to 3.0 percent over the next two years, before
resuming a higher growth path.
18.    Exports which grew by over 20 percent on average (in volume terms) in 1996-97 and
declined in 1998 are expected to rebound slightly by about 3 percent in 1999. Although the
realignment of the GEL end- 1998 is helping export industries to regain competitiveness, it will take
exporters some time to diversify away from the depressed Russian market, find new outlays for
their products and build marketing channels. As for imports the sharp volume increase registered in
1997 (41 percent) and 1998 (17 percent) was largely driven by investments for the construction and
refurbishment of the "early oil" pipeline connecting Azerbajan to the Black Sea. With the



-5.-
completion of the project in early 1999 and the consequent slowdown in pipeline-related imports,
and as a result of the change in relative prices induced by the GEL depreciation, the volume of
imports is expected to decline by about 10 percent in 1999. The current account deficit excluding
transfers will decline to 10.4 percent of GDP from 12 percent in 1998.
19.   Over the medium term, growth which so far was dominated by agriculture and trade, is
expected to become gradually more broadly based, with a higher contribution from other sectors
which will benefit from the impact of the implementation of the Government program of structural
reforms. Hence, privatization is expected to enhance the efficiency of key infrastructure (transport,
energy, telecommunications) with a trickle down effect on overall economic efficiency. In addition,
the various ongoing initiatives aiming at reducing administrative interference (public sector and de-
licensing reforms), establishing a sound legal and regulatory framework and strengthening the
judiciary are expected to positively impact the investment climate. As a result, the activity of small
and medium enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors is expected to pick up, increasing
the contribution of these sectors to overall growth.
20.    Real annual growth is expected to reach 4.5 percent per year on average starting from
2002, supported by an increase of the investment ratio from 8 percent of GDP in 1998 to 16 percent
by 2005. Most of the increase would result from rising private investment from 7 percent to 13
percent of GDP, for a large part in infrastructure (pipeline, energy, telecommunications and ports).
Public investment is expected to triple from 1 percent in 1998 to 3 percent in 2005, largely
financed by foreign assistance. The current account deficit (excluding transfers) will improve from
12 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 4 percent in 2005. After a record low of 3.6 percent in 1998,
average inflation is expected to reach 22 percent in 1999, reflecting the pass thru of the GEL
depreciation and energy prices adjustment. Inflation is expected to stabilize at around 4 percent by
end 2001.
21.   Externalfinancing requirements. In view of the difficult external environment and a
heavy debt burden, Georgia will continue to need substantial external concessional assistance and
capital inflows to finance its transition to a market economy and its poverty alleviation efforts.
Georgia's stock of external debt to GDP increased sharply from 30 percent in 1996 to 44 percent in
1999. The external debt service ratio increased from 12 percent in 1997 to 19 percent in 1999 and
is expected to exceed 21 percent during the 2000-2002 period. Georgia's capacity to service its
external debt is substantially hampered by its fiscal difficulties and a heavy overall debt burden -
with external and internal debt payments in excess of 30 percent of Government revenues in 1999.
Domestic savings are not expected to turn positive until the year 2001. New rounds of bilateral
reschedulings are therefore expected to bring down the external debt service to more sustainable
levels. Although at less than half its 1998 level following the completion of works related to the
early oil pipeline, direct foreign investment will remain an important source of financing in 1999
(US$96 million) and afterwards. The bulk of the external financing, however will be provided
through multilateral and bilateral concessional assistance. In 1999 the remaining gap is expected to
be closed through an increase in access under the ESAF by 10 percent of quota, a new successor
ESAF arrangement, and a possible restructuring of principal debt payments falling due to
Turkmenistan.



-6-
Georgia: Balance of Payments and External Financing, 1998-2001
1998      19991    2000    2001
Current Account (excl all transfers)     -616.8    -453.2   -462.2  -459.3
Exports                                 473.3      504.2    550.6   613.4
Imports                                1163.7     1040.0   1086.2  1168.6
Services (Non-factor)                   -41.6     -28.3    -38.9   -22.4
Net Factor Income                       115.2      111.0    112.3   118.3
o/w interest due                      44.7       49.7     51.2    55.0
Capital Account                     d     315.2      227.5    194.9   143.8
Disbursements                     I     137.0      169.8    203.0   179.6
O/w World Bank Group                  73.4      106.2     77.4    81.0
Amortization                             82.1      108.2    136.9   167.3
Foreign Direct Investment               221.0       96.1    108.8   122.2
Net other financing                      39.4       69.8     20.1     9.3
Overall Balance                          -301.6    -225.7   -267.2  -315.5
Financing Items                           301.6      150.8    142.3   157.2
Private Transfers                       137.3      124.4    129.0   134.0
Official Grants                          73.4       97.7     61.41   56.0
Change in Net Reserves ( - increase)     90.9      -71.3    -48.1   -32.8
Change in Gross Reserves              54.9      -94.6    -20.6   -15.9
IMF (net)                             36.0       23.3    -27.5   -16.9
Financing Gap                               0.0       74.9    124.9   158.3
II. GEORGIA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
22.   The previous generation of reforms (as outlined in Box 1 p.2 ) addressed the short term
stabilization issues, the economic policy requirements and the legal and regulatory basis for a well
functioning market economy. This program made a significant stride on the structural policy
agenda mainly by pushing the transfer of productive assets from the state to the private sector, and
initiated the long term process of institutional transformation. While the response of the economy
to the reform package was impressive, the recent economic developments underscore the fragility
of Georgia's recovery and pinpoint to the major development challenges the country now faces. In
order to achieve macroeconomic stability, maintain high economic growth and improve living
conditions, Georgia needs to intensify the process of building strong fiscal institutions, it needs to
streamline the interface between the administration and the private sector and establish a well
functioning network of physical infrastructure.
23.   The Government's adjustment program aims at addressing this agenda. The program's
focus is on: (i) strengthening public finance including adequate provision of health and education
services and better targeting of social assistance programs and (ii) fostering an environment
conducive to sustained private sector investment and growth by focusing on the business
environment, state divestiture from the enterprise sector and enhancing the efficiency of key
infrastructure. The proposed SACIII and Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) support the
Government program.



-7-
A. Public Finance
24.   Fiscal consolidation was a key element of Georgia's macroeconomic stabilization. At the
start of the stabilization process, with revenues at about 4 percent of GDP, the fiscal adjustment
was achieved thanks to a drastic reduction of public expenditure (from 23.5 percent in 1994 to 12.3
percent in 1995). Follow-up reforms have endowed Georgia with a tax regime characterized by a
limited number of taxes, relatively low rates and low spread. The streamlining of the tax system
and the removal of most tax exemptions succeeded in bringing the tax revenue to GDP ratio close
to 9 percent by 1997.
25.   The revenue gains allowed overall expenditure to rebound to over 14 percent of GDP, with
major improvements in social sector spending, albeit from a very low basis. Over the last two
years, however, the rate of revenue improvement, although still positive, has decreased
substantially. Revenues increased by 145 percent in 1996, 40 percent in 1997 and 13 percent in
1998. This pattern reflects the major revenue and output recovery from a very low base in 1996 and
a subsequent slow down mainly due to widespread evasion, weak and corrupt tax and custom
administration and granting of tax advantages to powerful groups (such as producers or importers
of wheat, flour, fuel cigarettes and alcohol). Faced with revenue shortfalls and increasing security
and refugee expenditure, the Government has started accumulating debt, salary and social sector
arrears, on a regular basis. The stock of arrears at end-December 1998 amounted to 140 million
GEL (2 percent of GDP). Three-quarter of the arrears have an immediate welfare impact. Wage
and pension arrears represented 62 percent of the total and health arrears, 8 percent.
26.   The Government recognizes that rapidly restoring public finances to a sound footing is key
to macroeconomic stability. On the revenue side, the Government objective is to boost internal
revenue mobilization under a fair and equitable tax regime with minimal economic distortions. A
number of measures were introduced end- 1998 to improve revenue mobilization. They include,
inter alia, the removal of VAT exemptions on imported wheat and domestically-produced flour, the
restoration of the customs duty on natural gas and electricity to the standard 12 percent rate; an
increase in the excise rate to 60 percent for all petroleum products except mazout (previously only
gasoline was subject to the 60 percent rate); an increase in the VAT on bread to the standard 20
percent rate; the elimination of VAT exemption for agriculture and the introduction of excise
stamps on cigarettes and alcohol.
27. The Government is also aware of the need to strengthen the operational capacity of the
revenue administration in order to fight evasion and corruption and broaden the tax base in a
sustainable manner. Over the last two years, the Govermment had embarked on a program of
modernization of the State Customs Department (SCD) which collects custom duties, VAT and
excise on imports. The program focuses on institutional strengthening (review of staffing needs;
internal reorganization; adoption of new procedures and controls), and improvement in physical
infrastructure (computerization and improved communications; rehabilitation of facilities). Most of
the benefits of the ongoing modernization program will take two to three years to fully be realized.
In the short term it has allowed only for modest revenue increases.
28.  In the short term, collection of customs revenues is still highly constrained by weak control
of customs territory; porous borders allowing for easy smuggling; massive tax evasion on excisable
goods; under invoicing of imports; weak enforcement capacity; splitting of consignment under
personal exemption regime; and poor control of transit traffic. In view of these weaknesses, the
Government has decided to complement the existing institutional strengthening program by hiring
an internationally experienced contractor to carry out selected customs functions. For sustainability
purposes, an effective program of partnership and skills transfer between the contractor and the
Customs Department will be developed.



-8-
29. Concerning the tax administration, the government past efforts concentrated on establishing
or reorganizing tax institutions. Hence the Tax Inspectorate of Georgia and its regional branches,
which collect most central and local government domestic taxes, were reorganized in 1995, and a
Large Taxpayer Inspectorate was established in 1996. To increase the efficiency of tax collections,
the responsibility for the collection of payroll taxes was transferred from the Pension Fund to the
TIG in 1998. The Tax Code of Georgia was constructed and is implemented. The TIG is now
being further reorganized along functional lines to separate out policy, management and control
functions, allowing for clear responsibility and performance delineation.
30.   Although crucial for the establishment of sound fiscal institutions, this restructuring was
not sufficient to sustain the high pace of revenue improvement registered in 1996-97. The
Government has now adopted an action plan to deal with the major weaknesses still plaguing the
tax administration. The thrust of the action plan lays in measures to strengthen controls, enhance
coordination and information flows across revenue agencies; upgrade personnel skills, improve the
interface between the tax administration and the taxpayers, enhance management and
accountability and establish a system of sanctions and rewards to strengthen discipline while
improving incentives. A special tax force of hand-picked tax inspectors has been established to
oversee with support from donors the implementation of the action plan. The Government action
plan and implementation timetable are detailed in the Government Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) and its attached matrix. In response to this package of tax policy and institutional measures,
the tax revenue ratio is expected to rise from 8.9 percent of GDP in 1998 to 9.6 percent in 1999.
31.  On the expenditure side, The Government's objective is to ensure that an expenditure
management system that is efficient, transparent, and responsive to the stated expenditure priorities
is in place. In the past, priority expenditures, such as those on health, education and poverty
benefits have suffered from revenue shortfall, liquidity constraints and cash management
weaknesses. A reorganization of the Ministry of Finance along functional lines is underway to
strengthen the ministry's control over the management of revenue and expenditure. The
Government expenditure reform also includes measures to improve coordination between spending
ministries, ensure strict control by the Ministry of Finance over total budgetary expenditures and
introduce management planning systems to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of all
departments within the Ministry of Finance.
32.  A new computerized system of revenue allocation has been introduced to give priority to the
core expenditure functions. All health, education and poverty benefits are core priority
expenditures within the mandatory budgetary classification. As such, they are an integral part of
the primary allocation of revenues collected every month. In the 1999 budget, the Government has
allocated to the education sector 13 percent of its overall consolidated budget, i.e., including central
and local budget outlays, the extrabudgetary funds and the State Medical Insurance Company
(SMIC). Government allocation to the health sector amounts to 7.3 percent of the consolidated
budget.
33.  In its continued effort to sharpen the targeting of social assistance programs and in line
with the results of the poverty assessment, the Government is increasing the poverty benefit to the
most vulnerable group of the population, the poor single pensioners. The Government will maintain
the current number of beneficiaries but increase the benefit to a level sufficient to bring their
monthly expenditure to the level of the minimum poverty line. In the 1999 budget 14.3 million
GEL have been allocated for the poverty benefit. This will allow to reach some 55000 applicants
currently registered as poor single pensioners. The level of assistance will be 18 GEL per poor
single pensioner and 29 GEL for two poor single pensioners living together. Overall transfers to the
local governments will specify the amount allocated to health, education and poverty benefit.



-9-
34.  The restructured Treasury Department will complement the budgeting process by providing
links - through its regional network, which will monitor actual expenditure against its intended
purpose. Treasury departments will work with spending ministries and others to create
accountability trails so that the disbursement of revenues can be tracked to the point of expenditure.
To that purpose, the Treasury will require spending ministries and others relevant entities to
provide monthly/quarterly reports which will describe how much revenues was received and how it
was spent. The Government expenditure management action plan and implementation time table
are outlined in the Government Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and its attached matrix.
B. Private Sector Development
35.   The Government's objective is to foster an environment conducive to private sector
investment and a diversification of the sources of growth. The key elements of the Government
program are to (i) improve the investment climate and the environment in which businesses
operate; (ii) promote a dynamic land and real estate market; and (iii) pursue the enterprise
privatization program especially in infrastructure.
B.1. Business environment
36.  So far, the Government efforts to strengthen the private sector, have focused on the
establishment of a legal framework to foster enterprise governance and facilitate orderly entry and
exit. The extensive legislative and regulatory framework established over the last four years covers
areas as diverse as constitutional law, judiciary, business organization, bankruptcy, antimonopoly,
property rights, natural resources and environment, and foreign investment.
37.  Feedback from the business community in the context of an assessment to the constraints to
private sector-led growth carried out in May 1998 reveals, however, disturbing trends. While the
macroeconomic stabilization, the liberalization of markets and trade and the establishment of a
fairly comprehensive legal and regulatory framework have been instrumental in boosting private
sector activity and attracting foreign investment, a number of factors are now contributing to
discourage new entry, and greatly raise the uncertainty, risk and cost of doing business. Arbitrary
interpretations of laws and regulations, multiple licensing requirements and overlapping institutions
claiming juridiction over various aspects of business activity, frequent and unjustified visits of
licensing or tax inspection teams, and complex business registration practices constitute a major
obstacle to the development of private activities.
38.  Clearly, significant improvements to the business environment and to the interface between
the administration and the private sector are needed to reduce administrative hurdles and
opportunities for rent-seeking by bureaucrats and creating a fair level playing field among
enterprises. In addition to measures to inject professionalism in the tax administration (see para.
27), such improvement will require further simplification of business registration procedures, a
complete streamlining of licensing and transparent and fair public procurement.
39.  Business registration procedures are in practice unnecessarily more complex than
prescribed by the law. Two steps that are not required by the law have been recently eliminated.
These are the requirement to obtain a stamp/seal from the local police; the regulation of the
National Bank of Georgia prohibiting commercial banks to open new accounts for new businesses
without a seal. In addition draft amendments to the Administrative Procedures Code have been
submitted to the Parliament to eliminate the active role of the Statistics Department (SD). A reform
of the licensing regime is underway. Key measures include (i) restricting licensing to a limited
number of specified areas (e.g. where there is a direct, immediate and significant danger to the



-10-
population), (ii) specifying a legal framework spelling out objective licensing criteria, (iii)
simplifying the licensing process, (iv) assigning responsibility and establishing an institutional
mechanism to implement the recently enacted licensing law. In order to assess reform effectiveness
and monitor progress, the government will undertake quarterly surveys measuring the licensing
burden.
40. A modern and transparent state procurement system is critical to support the on going
economic reforms and the emerging private sector. It will enable development of the private sector
by providing suppliers a level playing field, besides reducing rent-seeking opportunities. A
comprehensive legal and institutional framework to regulate and manage state procurement is
being established. The key steps involve (i) drafting and enacting a procurement legislation and
promulgating detailed regulations to enforce its provisions; (ii) adoption of a set of uniform country
specific procurement documents and manuals; (iii) establishment of a procurement regulatory and
oversight agency; and (iv) development of training material and delivery of workshops to introduce
the new system.
41.  The experience so far with private sector development in Georgia reveals a difficult
interface between the administration and the private sector as well as an important disconnect
between laws and regulations and their actual implementation. There is a need for more systematic
feedback mechanisms to identify areas of administrative abuses, patterns of misconduct or more
simply gaps or weaknesses in existing regulations. Now that a substantial effort has been made in
establishing a legal and regulatory framework for business activity, the government main objective
is to be able to monitor the investment climate, assess the quality of the business environment and
respond swiftly to major bottlenecks to the growth of the private sector. In order to establish more
direct lines of communication with the private sector, the Government has decided to enlarge the
Investment Council, chaired by the President and composed of high-ranking officials and members
of the Parliament, to include representatives of the private sector and CERMA an NGO which
supports the development of the private sector. The enlarged Investment Council will meet
quarterly to discuss business environment-related issues. The Government will prepare and discuss
with IDA bi-annual reports on the issues facing the private sector and proposed measures to
address them.
B.2. Land and real estate markets
42.   The Government has designed a package of measures to promote land and real estate
markets. These measures will also positively affect the development of the financial sector and
facilitate the process of enterprise restructuring. Until recently, the land surrounding privatized
enterprises was state property. In November 1998, the Government adopted a law on "Declaration
of Private Ownership of Non-Agricultural Land in Use of Physical and Private Legal Person"
which declares the land allocated to privatized enterprises, private legal persons and private
citizens to be private based on existing sketches and documentation. Privatized land is being
registered rapidly without additional surveying, after payment of a one-time fee. Under the new
law, future privatization will include land as an integral part of the enterprise assets being sold. So
far about 2500 companies have registered their land.
43.  In order to stimulate the development of both real estate and financial markets, the
Government will amend the law "On Administration and Disposition of State-Owned Non-
agricultural land" to integrate features central for development of real estate markets. The revised
law will promote privatization over leasing and provide for the organization of future privatization
through a competitive process. In addition, the law will enhance transparency by carefully defining
the privatization mechanism and specifying the roles of the relevant public bodies including local



-11-
self government, the State Department of Land Management (SDLM), the Ministry of
Urbanization and Construction, the Ministry of State Property Management.
B.3. Privatization
44.   An assessment of the privatization process in Georgia was carried out in May 1998.
Although Georgia has privatized about 10,000 small-scale and 1000 medium- and large-scale
enterprises, over three-quarters of the enterprise sector equity (as measured by its book value)
remains in government's hands. The infrastructure sector had remained almost in its entirety in the
Government portfolio and the privatization legislation excluded most of infrastructure from the
process. Land was also excluded from the assets being privatized, considerably limiting the ability
of the enterprise sector to mobilize resources for restructuring. While progress was made in
diversifying the privatization methods used, the process as a whole was characterized by a lack of
genuine competition and low transparency, with a detrimental effect on privatization revenues, the
business environment and the performance of the enterprise sector. Inadequate treatment of
hidden liabilities was a major source of non-conclusion or ex-post undoing of transactions. Low
interministerial cooperation, limited in house capacity and lack of professionalism have also taken
their toll on the speed and outcome of the privatization process.
45. Based on this assessment of past privatization experience, the Government has introduced a
number of modifications to the privatization legal and institutional framework. The newly enacted
law " On Declaration of Private Ownership of Non-agricultural Land in Use of Physical and
Private Legal Person." includes land as an integral part of the assets being privatized and the Law
on State Property Privatization has been amended to permit the privatization of
telecommunications; postal services; radio and television broadcasting; railways; water and
sanitation systems; airports; gas distribution pipelines; ports; and roads. In addition, to provide
sufficient flexibility for structuring transactions, the ministry's regulations have been amended to
eliminate maximum lease terms and minimum annual payments.
46.  A Permanent Oversight Commission (POC) including the ministers of State Property
Management, Finance, and Economy; Presidential Advisor for Economic Reforms; and Chairman
of the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Reforms and Economic Policy has been created to
enhance transparency and strengthen interministerial coordination and cooperation between the
Ministry of State Property Management and line ministries. Because past tenders suffered from
insufficient time and support, the Government has modified tender procedures to give prospective
investors up to 4 months to complete due diligence and develop investment proposals.
47.  In addition, the Government has taken steps to limit the liability of new enterprise owners to
amounts known at the time of the transaction and to discourage fraud while protecting rightful
creditors. Lastly, the Govermnent has substantially increased its public information and marketing
efforts. These now include regular advertisements in leading national newspapers, weekly press
conferences and in-depth interviews; television coverage; and information distribution on the
internet, to foreign embassies, and through Georgia's overseas embassies.
48.   Private participation in infrastructure is a major element of the Government private
sector development program. In view of the difficulties the Government faces in imposing
payment discipline on both residential and industrial consumers, private management of key
infrastructure and utilities is crucial to the imposition of hard budget constraints, reversing the
process of capital erosion, bringing in new investment, ensuring adequate maintenance and
improving service quality. The main sectors involved are energy (power, gas and oil), water,
telecommunications and transport.



-12-
49.   With support from the World Bank under the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (FY99), the
Government is implementing a program of reforms in the power oil and gas sectors aiming to
enhance financial management, combat corruption, increase the availability of energy on a
sustainable basis, catalyze private investment, realize Georgia's pipeline transit potential, and
upgrade environmental management. The program focuses on sector restructuring and privatization
and the establishment of adequate regulatory framework. A major step forward was achieved with
the recent privatization of the main power distribution company, Telasi. The World Bank is also
supporting under a water sector project the corporatization of Tbilisi Water Utility (TWU), and the
preparation on the basis of the ongoing institutional study, of a strategy defining the regulatory
framework, the optimal form of participation of the private sector and a timetable for
implementation.
50.   In the telecommunication sector, where substantial private investment has taken place, the
Government objectives are to increase transparency in all telecommunication activities, strengthen
anti-monopoly mechanisms, privatize the remaining assets and rejuvenate and expand local service
and service to rural and under-served regions using market-based mechanisms. The Government is
hiring internationally experienced advisors to assist with the definition of sector policy, regulatory
framework, and the privatization of the remaining state-owned assets.
51.   The Government intends to sell its remaining 51 percent shares in Georgia
Telecommunications (GT) and 75 percent of its shares in Georgia Electro Communications (GEC)
by international competitive tender. In order to increase the attractiveness of these assets and
enhance competition the Government has given GT and GEC the licenses for both domestic and
international operations. It intends to obtain the services of an investment bank (by end-August
1999) to assist in the privatization of GT and GEC and has already obtained the services of a
regulatory advisor.
52.   Regarding Poti Port, the Government objectives are to introduce modern seaport
technologies, ensure sound operation, improve management skills, stimulate the transport market
and improve the quality of port services. The strategy involves the separation of commercial
activities and regulatory functions. In order to attract foreign investment and create a competitive
environment, the Government intends to establish joint-stock companies to be in charge of
operation, development and financing of the main components of port activities. These companies
will lease corresponding pieces of infrastructure and their assets will be under majority private
ownership. A new Port Authority will be created, acting as Landlord-port in charge of regulation,
management of public properties and long-term planning. The Government will hire international
advisors to prepare and market the information memorandum, prepare and review bidding
documents and assist in bids evaluation and negotiations with the potential investors.
53.  As for medium and large non-infrastructure enterprises, the Government has made an
assessment of the enterprises remaining in its portfolio in view of their privatization. The
Government's divestiture program covers 364 enterprises, divided into three "tiers." Tier I consists
of 29 State-majority enterprises that the Government wishes to privatize by tender. Tier II consists
of 31 State-majority enterprises that the Government expects to privatize through public auction.
Tier III consists of mostly minority shareholdings in 304 enterprises, of which 236 were privatized
recently.
54.   A resolution unit has been established within the Ministry of State Property Management.
The role of the unit, which will benefit from donor-funded technical advice, is to assess the
viability of the major companies, and decide upon the most appropriate form of divestiture: (i)
viable and suitable for tendering as is; (ii) partly viable but with substantial excess assets requiring



-13-
a split of assets and liabilities between a viable part to be tendered and a non viable portion to be
assigned for sale and settlement; or (iii) entirely non viable to be assigned for sale and settlement.
55. The Government has adopted a Statement of Intent on a Hospital Restructuring Program
aiming at improving the efficiency and quality of health infrastructure and services. The
Government strategy envisages a significant reduction of publicly-owned facilities. The
cornerstone of the strategy is the sale at market prices of the real estate attached to excess capacity
in the sector, and use of the resources thereby generated to upgrade and equip the remaining
facilities, train the personnel and cover restructuring costs such as severance payments to excess
personnel. The action plan will be implemented in phases beginning in 1999.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Rationale for the Credit
56.   Georgia's urgent need for adjustment financing is the result of a weak public finance
performance and the adverse impact of the crisis in Russia on Georgia's economy. The
Government has adopted a solid program aiming at strengthening the economy's capacity to
overcome the current crisis and has started implementing key measures to regain control of the
fiscal situation. Maintaining the reform momentum will depend among, other things, on external
financing support.
57. The proposed SAC would support the implementation of the Government's program
described above. Box 2 (page 14) presents the matrix of specific policy measures that the
Government would have to implement prior to the release of the SACIII funds. The detailed reform
program and the timetable is described in the attached Letter of Development Policy and
implementation matrix. (Annex 2 and Annex 3)
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy
58.    The proposed credit supports the following priorities of the Bank's strategy in Georgia as
spelled out in the September 1997 CAS (17000-GE): (i) consolidate the stabilization process by
supporting revenue performance, expenditure management and the provision of a limited range of
public services; (ii) strengthen and diversify the sources of growth by removing remaining barriers
to private sector development, completing privatization, rehabilitating basic infrastructure and
putting in place a sound regulatory framework; (iii) prevent a deterioration of the stock of human
capital and strengthen the safety net.
59.  The policy reforms supported by SAC III are also necessary to the success of Bank
investment operations. Strengthening the fiscal situation and protecting social sector expenditure is
critical to the success of the Health Project (FY96). Completing the process of land ownership
change is needed for the success of the Agricultural Development (FY97), Municipal Development
and Decentralization (FY98) projects. Creating an adequate framework for private participation in
infrastructure would help achieve the objectives of the Power Rehabilitation (FY97), Oil Institution
Building (FY98) and Transport LIL (FY99) projects.



-14-
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Specific Tranche Release Conditions
Policy Objectives     Board Presentation Conditions  Effectiveness Condition     Second Tranche Conditions    Third Tranche Conditions
Macroeconomic
Framework
*  A Program Monitoring       *  A macro-economic          *  Satisfactory               *  Satisfactory
Committee composed of key     framework consistent with    macroeconomic                 macroeconomic
officials for each of the     the Program objectives is    performance (in particular    performance (in
program components has        in place. This entails      fiscal revenue and tax         particular fiscal
been established              continued satisfactory      arrears reduction targets)    revenue and tax arrears
performance during the                                    reduction targets)
remaining of the track
record period with respect
to monetary, credit and
fiscal policy. The
following key indicators
will be closely monitored
in assessing that the
macroeconomic
framework is satisfactory
to IDA:
* Net domestic credit of the
central bank and banking
sector's credit to the
Govemment;
*  Central bank policy with
regards to exchange rate
and foreign exchange
conditions;
*  Revenue collection with
particular emphasis on
collection of excise taxes;
*  Adequate match between
revenues and expenditure



-15-
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Specific Tranche Release Conditions
Policy Objectives    Board Presentation Conditions  Effectiveness Condition  Second Tranche Conditions    Third Tranche Conditions
Progress in achieving
agreement on a program
with the IMF
Public Finance
Strengthen the Revenue  *  Adoption of reorganization
administration          decree for the STDG
* Job descriptions and new
performance monitoring
systems setting objectives
and performance targets,
have been established for
management and technical
staff
Strengthen expenditure  *  Adoption of preparatory                           *  Adequate execution of the   *  Adequate execution of
management              decrees for the                                          1999 budget                 the 2000 budget
reorganization of the                                *  Adequate allocations to  *  Payment of all
Ministry of Finance                                     health, education and        outstanding arrears to
*  The Government has                                      poverty benefit in the 2000  health education and
included in the 1999 budget                             budget                       poverty benefit
14.3 million GEL for the                            *  Adoption of an overall
poverty benefit                                         reorganization decree for
*  The share of health                                     the Ministry of Finance
expenditure amounts to 7.3
percent of the consolidated
1999 budget and the share of
education expenditure
amount to 13 percent
* The monitoring mechanism
for the core social
expenditures has been
established and is operating



-16-
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Specific Tranche Release Conditions
Policy Objectives     Board Presentation Conditions  Effectiveness Condition   Second Tranche Conditions    Third Tranche Conditions
*  Satisfactory execution of
health, education and
poverty benefit expenditures
Private Sector
Development
Improve the quality of   *  Enactment of a licensing law                       *  Issuance of licensing     *  Satisfactory
the business             satisfactory to IDA                                       implementing regulations     implementation of the
environment           *  Enactment of a procurement                                satisfactory to IDA          licensing reform
law                                                   *  Undertake quarterly       *  Satisfactory
surveys to monitor          implementation of the
licensing burden and         new procurement
impact of licensing reform;  regime
prepare action plan      *  Enactment of Laws
addressing key issues and    on Fees, Certification
submit the results to IDA    and Accreditation and
*  Adoption of implementing     issue respective
regulations on procurement   implementation
law satisfactory to IDA      regulations
*  Adoption of an institutional  satisfactory to IDA
strengthening plan for
carrying out state
procurement
*  Satisfactory
implementation of the new
procurement regime by
selected central ministries
*  Streamline business                                   *  Enact amendments to the    *  Submit to IDA bi-
registration procedures by                               Administrative Procedures    annual reports
eliminating the requirement                              Code on eliminating          summarizing the results
to obtain a stamp/seal from                              requirement to visit SDS     of the review of the



-17-
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Specific Tranche Release Conditions
Policy Objectives     Board Presentation Conditions  Effectiveness Condition   Second Tranche Conditions    Third Tranche Conditions
the local police and other                            *  Submit to IDA a report        Enlarged Investment
administrative entities; the                             summarizing the results of    Council, and the
decree of NBG prohibiting                                the review of the Enlarged   implementation of the
commercial banks to open                                 Investment Council, main     action plan to address
new accounts for new                                     issues discussed and action  the issues identified
businesses without a seal;                               plan to address them
and the requirement to visit
the Statistic Department
(draft amendments of
Administrative Procedures
Code submitted to the
Parliament). Limit the
number of signatures for the
issuance on a tax ID number
tO one. Widely publcize
these changes in the media
Promote land and real   *  Land registration performed                         *  Enactment of an amended
estatc markets           for more than 3000                                        Law on Administration and
enterprises                                              Disposition of State-owned
a  Submission to the                                         Non-agricultural Land and
Parliament of amendments                                 issuance of implementing
to the Law on                                            regulations satisfactory to
Administration and                                       IDA
Disposition of State-owned
Non-agricultural Land,
satisfactory to IDA
Private participation in  *  Amendments to the                                 *  Hiring of financial and    e  Recruitment of
infrastructure           privatization law                                        legal advisor to assist in the  financial/legal advisors
(satisfactory to IDA)                                    privatization of              for the implementation
*  Adoption of the key sets of                               telecommunication            of the development
principles for                                           enterprises; submission to   strategy for Poti Port
Telecommunication and                                    IDA's non-objection a         including structuring
Poti-Port privatization                                  satisfactory privatization    concessions
satisfactory to IDA                                      strategy and timetable and a  arrangements for port



-18-
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Specific Tranche Release Conditions
Policy Objectives    Board Presentation Conditions  Effectiveness Condition  Second Tranche Conditions    Third Tranche Conditions
regulatory framework for    operations
the telecommunication    *  Offer for sale the
sector                     telecommunication
*  Submission to IDA's non-    companies, Georgia
objection a satisfactory    Telecommunications
development strategy and    and Georgia Electro
regulatory framework for    Communications
Poti Port
Privatization of non-    *  Completion of zero-price                         *  Submission of a report    *  Submission of a
infrastructure          bidding for 244 companies                                demonstrating satisfactory  progress report
enterprises          *  Establishment of a                                       implementation of the non   satisfactory to IDA's
Resolution Unit within the                              infrastructure privatization  demonstrating
Ministry of State Property                              program                     implementation of the
Management                                                                          non-infrastructure
privatization program.
(e.g., auctions results
for all enterprises in
Tier III have been
publicized and Tier I
and II enterprises have
been either privatized
or assigned to the
Resolution Unit)
Hospital restructuring   *  Agreement on the hospital                        *  Initiation of the         *  Implementation of the
restructuring program                                   restructuring program in    first phase of the
line with the steps agreed  restructuring program
upon with IDA               and preparation of an
action plan satisfactory
to IDA for the
implementation of the
second phase



-19-
C. Poverty Impact
60.   The focus of the proposed credit is in line with the main conclusions of the recently
completed Poverty Assessment for Georgia: (i) sustained economic growth and stable
macroeconomic performance have been central to poverty alleviation in the recent past and will
remain crucial components of any poverty alleviation strategy; (ii) the Government's capacity to
tax and redistribute income will play a significant role in determining poverty outcomes in the
future; (iii) a small but well targeted safety net can play an important role in reducing poverty. The
proposed credit will contribute to poverty reduction by supporting policies designed to accelerate
broad-based income growth, improve the quality of basic services and sharpen the targeting of
social assistance. Adequate allocations and spending on core social services will contribute to
improved basic health and education services. Reforms to boost the development of the private
sector will enhance growth prospects and increase job opportunities.
D. Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
61.    The credit will be disbursed in three tranches in an amount equivalent to US$20 million
each. The program was designed to emphasize actions taken prior to credit approval to
demonstrate the Government's commitment to the program and set the stage for implementation of
key follow-up steps.
62.   The credit will follow the Bank's new simplified disbursement procedures for structural
adjustment operations. Thus disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and they will
be no procurement requirements. Proceeds of the credit will be deposited by IDA in a Central
Bank account at the request of the Borrower. If, after deposit in this Account, the Proceeds of the
credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-members countries,
or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), IDA will require the Borrower to
either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount
directly to IDA. The credit administration will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require
audits at anytime.
63.   Implementation of the policy program will be monitored by an Inter-ministerial Committee
chaired by the Advisor to the President on Economic Reforms. The committee will have
responsibility for monitoring and evaluating progress under the various components of the program
with input from participating ministries and institutions. IDA will monitor implementation of the
program through regular supervision missions, the committee's quarterly reports and continuous
monitoring by the resident mission.
E. Benefits and Risks
64.   Risks. In view of the weak fiscal performance and the fragile political situation, the
proposed credit presents several risks. With parliamentary elections scheduled for end 1999 and
presidential elections for 2000, electoral considerations could distract Government's attention from
its reform agenda. In addition, implementation of the program could suffer from increasing
political tensions and violence, worsening an already tight fiscal situation, leading to further
accumulation of wage and pensions arrears, and in return feeding even further discontentment.
Also, interest groups favoring tax loopholes or a loose tax administration could succeed in derailing
the implementation of the fiscal program, as those favoring a biased business environment could
try to derail the implementation of private sector development measures. More generally, there is a



-20-
significant risk of policy reversal if anti-market forces start prevailing due to increased regional
economic and political instability.
65.   Benefits. In our view, the proposed credit is essential to maintain the momentum of
reforms, deepen the reform process in areas that are key to the sustainability of growth and mitigate
the impact of the regional economic crisis on Georgia. The balance of payment and budgetary
support would finance imports critical to economic activity and the rehabilitation of the capital
base. The proposed credit would ease the fiscal adjustment and help protect basic social
expenditure as public finance are gradually strengthened. Improvements to the business
environment would not only strengthen the capacity of the Georgian economy to respond to the
current crisis but also improve its image abroad at a time when investors are looking for safer
emerging market niches. The economic team is fully committed to the reform program and aware
of the social, economic and political stakes associated with a stable macroeconomic framework, an
environment conducive to sustained growth and the need to improve the fiscal performance in
order to deliver an adequate level of basic social services to the Georgian people.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
66.   The Bank's assistance program in Georgia has combined policy-based lending with
investment operations, technical assistance and Economic and Sector Work (ESW). Policy lending
has supported macroeconomic stabilization, price and trade liberalization, and the initial phase of
structural reforms, notably privatization, financial sector reform, and restructuring of the
Government sector and social safety net. Support was provided under the Rehabilitation Credit
(US$75 million approved in March 1995), the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC, US$60
million approved in April 1996), and SACII (US$60 million approved in September 1997).
Parallel technical assistance support was provided under the Institutional Building Credit (US$ 10
million approved in July 1994), and two Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance credits
(SATACs, US$5.0 and $4.8 million approved alongside the SACI and SACII operations).
67.   Investment lending which began in 1994 has spanned a large number of sectors including
municipal infrastructure, transport, health, power, oil institution building, agriculture development,
social investment, cultural heritage, environment and enterprise rehabilitation. All operations have
been IDA credits and total commitments amounted to US$394.7 million, as of May 31, 1999.
68.   Overall portfolio performance has been good and implementation progress ratings
satisfactory thanks to strong Government ownership and broad consultations with project
beneficiaries and Government officials at the design stage. Due to fiscal difficulties, however,
shortfall in counterpart funding have started affecting virtually all projects. We are working with
the Government on a plan to manage this situation, since if uncorrected these shortfalls will
severely delay project implementation, and in worst case lead to project suspension.
69.   In addition to lending, the Bank has also assisted the Government's policy formulation
process through ESW, including: a Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and a
Macroeconomic Update, a Transport Sector Review, an Agriculture and Food Sector Review, a
Public Expenditure Review, an informal Energy Sector Review followed by a Power Privatization
Study, an Education Sector Note, a Municipal Policy Note, and a Judicial Assessment. An
informal note on the Constraints to (private sector led) Growth, a Privatization Assessment and an
Overview of the Telecommunication Sector fed into the design of the proposed credit. During
FY99, a Civil Service Assessment was completed and the following ESW initiated: a note on
Institutional Reform, a Financial Sector Review, an Education Sector Strategy, an Agriculture
Sector Update, a Pension Note, and a Health Financing Note.



-21-
70.   Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grants have been, or are being implemented in
support of Cultural Heritage, Decentralization of Municipal Management, preparation of a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), for strengthening of the Georgia Investment Center, for
restructuring of research and development organizations, and to assist in the development of public
procurement procedures. Global Environment Facility (GEF) grants have also been given for
biodiversity protection, preparation of the NEAP, and for integrated coastal zone management.
71.   Georgia joined IFC in June 1995. Over the last two years, IFC has worked closely with
Georgian partners and external sponsors to identify potential private sector projects. Total
approved IFC investment to date is approximately US$45 million for five projects. The first IFC
direct investment in the Georgia Glass and Mineral Water Company was approved by the Board in
May 1997, and was followed by an investment in TBC Bank in February 1998. In July, 1998 IFC
approved an investment in the Ksani Glass Factory, and in August an investment in the Azerbaijan-
Georgia Early Oil pipeline was approved, as was an investment in the Georgia Micro-enterprise
Bank.
72.   IFC's current active pipeline of possible investment projects include the Ninotsminda Oil
Field, Tbilcombank, as well as possible projects in the tourism, health care, and agribusiness
sectors. Investments related to transportation and power are also likely after privatization in these
sectors has progressed. In addition, IFC has offered to assist in the development of capital markets
by supporting the introduction of leasing, seeking to encourage the entry of Western banks, and
mobilizing investors for a potential regional venture capital fund. In early 1998 IFC located a full-
time officer in Tbilisi, which is expected to assist with the identification of investment
opportunities in Georgia.
V. COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS
73.   Cooperation with the IMF has been very active since early 1994. A three year ESAF was
approved In February 1996 and Policy Framework Paper have been prepared jointly by the Bank
and the IMF in this context. The third year annual ESAF arrangement was approved by the IMF
Board in July 1998.
74.   To mobilize and coordinate external assistance, the Bank has organized Consultative
Group (CG) meetings for Georgia. A first full CG meeting was convened in November, 1994 to
mobilize balance of payments financing to complement the IDA-financed Rehabilitation Credit and
the STF from the IMF. CG meetings were held in May, 1996 and November 1997 to mobilize
quick-disbursing funds and investment financing.
75.   The Government's capacity for donor coordination is growing, and the opening of the
Bank's Resident Mission in August 1996 helped in strengthening the Bank's role in in-country aid
coordination. Relations with bilateral and multilateral donors are good. The United States,
Germany, Japan, Switzerland and EBRD are supporting jointly power sector reforms and a
coordinated investment program. The Bank, EBRD, the EU and the Government of Germany have
worked closely on the banking sector



-22-
VI. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
76.   1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
IDA and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Attachments
June 4, 1999
Washington, DC



Annex I
Page I of 4
Georgia: Main Economic Indicators
1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       2000      2001       2002       2003       2004       2005
Real Growth Rate
GDP                               2.4%       10.5%      11.0%      2.90/%     2.0%       3.5%       4.0%/6     4.5%       4.5%       4.5%       4.5%
Inflation (average)               162.7%     39.4%      7.1%       3.6%      22.0%       8.0%/e     6.0%/o     4.0%       4.0%       4.0%       4.0%
inflation (end of period)         57.4%      13.7%      7.3%       10.6%      13.0%      7.00/      4 4.0%     4.0%       4.0%       4.0%       4.0%
Exports (Merchandise)             -12.9%     18.7%      25.9%      -2.6%      3.1%       7.1%       9.2%       9.8%      10.1%      10.5%      10.9%
Imports (Merchandise)             -12.2%     9.7%       40.5%      16.8%     -10.1%      2.8%       5.8%       4.9%/e     4.9%       5.0%       4.7%
1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       2000      2001       2002        2003      2004        2005
As % GDP
Exports                           16.8%      11.2%      12.6%      13.8%      16.8%      15.4%     16.1%      16.8%      17.6%      18.5%      19.4%
Imports                           27.9%      18.9%      26.1%      28.0%     29.7/o    26.6%       26.6%      26.3%      26.0%      25.7%      25.6%
Resource Balance                  -11.1%     -7.8%     -13.5%     -14.3%     - 12.90/o    -11.2%   -10.5%     -9.4%      -8.3%      -7.2%      -6.2%
Current Account (Ineld Transfers)  -7.5%     -6.0%      -7.2%      -7.9%      -5.3%     -5.3%      -4.9%      -4.2%      -3.3%      -2.4%      -1.6%
Current Account (Excid Transfers)    -14.0%  -9.1%     -10.9%     -12.0%     -10.4%     -9.0%      -8.4%      -7.3%      -6.1%      -5.0%      -4.0%
Domestic Savings                  -7.1%      -1.8%      -6.3%      -6.4%      -6.3%     -2.4%       0.7%       2.9%/o     4.8%       7.9%       9.7%
Investment                        4.0%       6.0%       7.2%       7.8%       6.6%       8.8%      11.3%      12.3%      13.1%      15.2%      15.9%
o/w: Public                      1.1%       1.2%       1.1%      0.9%        1.2%      1.4%       1.5%       1.8%       2.2%       2.8%       3.0%
Consumption                       107.1%     101.8%    106.3%     106.4%     106.3%     102.4%     99.3%      97.1%      95.2%      92.1%      90.3%
Government Revenue                7.1%       9.4%       9.8%       10.9%      11.2%      12.2%      13.7%     14.7%      15.5%      16.7%       17.9%
o/w: Tax Revenue                 4.7%       7.3%       8.6%       8.9%      9.6%       11.0%      12.0%      13.0%      13.8%      15.1%      16.3%
Government Expenditure            12.3%      13.90/o    14.5%      15.2%      13.0%      14.3%     15.7%      16.7%      17.3%      18.2%      19.1%
Fiscal Deficit (Ineld Grants)     -5.2%      -4.5%      -4.6%      -4.3%      -1.8%      -2.1%     -2.0%      -2.0%      -1.8%      -1.5%      -1.2%
Fiscal Deficit (Excld Grants)     -7.2%      -5.7%      -4.8%      -4.9%      -2.8%      -2.6%     -2.4%      -2.3%      -2.0%      -1.6%      -1.3%



Annex I
Page 2 of 4
Georgia: Balance of Payments (millions of US dollars)
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
Merclandise Exports (FOB)                    362.8    417.0    493.5    473.3    504.2    550.6    613.4    687.0    770.4    866.3    978.1
Nonfactor Services                           121.8     93.9      167.9    232.1    230.7    240.3    268.0    301.9    340.2    379.1            421.1
Exports ofGNFS                               484.6    510.9    661.4    705.4        734.8    790.9    881.4    989.0    1110.6    1245.4   1399.2
Merchandise Imiports (FO3)                  700.1     767.9    1052.4    1163.7   1040.0   1086.2   1168.6   1240.7    1315.2   1395.9   1490.3
NonfactorServices                            104.8     99.1      315.9    273.7    259.0    279.2    290.4    303.6    320.1    338.3            357.6
Imports ofGNFS                               804.9    866.9    1368.3   1437.4   1299.0   1365.4   1459.0   1544.2   1635.3   1734.3    1847.9
o/w: Energy                                 184.9    183.6    191.4    185.5    173.4    173,9          179.5    186.4    193.5       199.5    206.9
Resource Balance                             -320.3   -356.0   -706.9   -732.0    564.1   -574.5   -577.6   -555.3   -524.8   -488.9   -448.7
NetFactorIncome                               -84.8    -60.7     134.4     115.2    111.0      112.3    118.3    126.5       140.0    152.2    161.8
Factor Payments                             85.9      65.6      52.1      78.1      88.0      93.5     101.5    108.6       116.5     121.9    125.3
o/w: Interest                              81.5      63.8      43.2     44.7      49.7      51.2      55.0      57.9      62.3      63.6      62.8
o/w: Profit Remittances                    4.3       1.8       8.9      33.4      38.3      42.3      46.4      50.7      54.2      58.2      62.5
Factor Receipts                               1.0      4.9      186.6    193.3    199.0    205.9    219.7    235.2    256.5    274.1            287.1
Private Transfers                             0.0       0.0      103.2    137.3    124.4    129.0    134.0    140.0    148.0           153.0     160.0
Official Tranisfers (Grants)                 189.2    140.5       93.2      73.4      97.7     61.4      56.0      39.0      26.0       19.0      10.0
CurrentAccountBalancc(lncldTraiisfers)       -215.9   -276.2   -376.1    -406.1   -231.1   -271.8   -269.3   -249.7   -210.8   -164.7    -116.9
Current Account Balance (Excld T'ransfers)   -405.1   -416.7   -572.5   -616.8   -453.2   -462.2   -459.3   -428.7   -384.8   -336.7   -286.9
Foreign Investment                            6.3      54.4      236.3    221.0      96.1      108.8    122.2    140.3       160.8     170.0    180.0
Net Long-'lerm Loans                         -168.4     36.2      67.7      54.9     136.5    191.0    170.6    157.1        119.3      81.4      22.7
Disbursements                               100.0    120.5    122.9    137.0    244.7    327.9    337.9    340.9    218.5             180.1     138.5
o/w: GAP                                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      74.9      124.9    158.3    172.1       58.6      26.5      -9.9
Amortization 1/                             268.4      84.3      55.2      82.1     108.2    136.9    167.3    183.8        99.2      98.8      115.8
Change in Arrears                            119.4    -346.7    -20.6    -69.4        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Rescheduling                                 224.9    390.3      61.7       4.6       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other Capital Flows (inel errors & Omisions)  74.0     63.0      -30.2     104.2     69.8      20.1      9.3       7.4       3.8       2.3        0.0
Change in Reserves (- = increase)            -115.2    -1.5      -15.1      54.9     -94.6    -20.6    -15.9    -22.6    -28.8    -36.8    -40.1
IMF Credit                                    75.0      80.5      76.3      36.0     23.3      -27.5    -16.9    -32.5    -44.3        -52.2    -45.7
Memo:
GDP (mil IJS $)                            2886.3   4579.4   5241.4   5128.9   4369.6   5140.8   5489.7   5880.7   6299.6   6748.3   7229.0
Average Exchange Rate (Lari/$)               1.28     1.25      1.30      1.41      2.00      1.90      1.96      1.99      2.02      2.05      2.08
Real Exchange Rate 2/                       100.0     66.6      61.3      62.0      75.2      67.8      67.8      67.8      67.8      67.8      67.8
Reserves in months of Imports                2.7       2.5       2.0       1.2      2.5       2.6       2.7       2.8       2.9       3.1       3.3
1/ Amortization due before rescheduling until 1998, and excl. IMF
2/ Decrease = Appreciation



Annex I
Page 3 of 4
Georgia: Financing Requirements (millions of US dollars)
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000     2001      2002     2003      2004     2005
Current Account Balance (excl transfers)  -405.1   -416.7   -572.5   -616.8   -453.2   -462.2   -459.3   -428.7   -384.8   -336.7   -286.9
Amortization                              268.4    84.3       55.2    82.11     108.2    136.9    167.3    183.8    99.2       98.8     115.8
Change in Reserves (- increase)           -115.2    -1.5     -15.1    54.9    -94.6    -20.6    -15.9    -22.6    -28.8    -36.8    -40.1
Financing needs                           788.8    502.5    642.8    644.0    656.0    619.7    642.5    635.1    512.8    472.2    442.8
Total Disbursments:
World Bank                                85.1     76.7      64.2     73.4     106.2    77.4      81.0      72.1     50.5     47.3      43.0
o/w Adjustment                         75.4     62.7      42.9     24.7     67.7      20.0     20.0      20.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
IMF (net)                                75.0      80.5     76.3      36.0     23.3    -27.5    -16.9    -32.5    -44.3    -52.2    -45.7
EBRD                                      3.9      8.1      19.7      17.6     32.9     49.3      17.6     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
IFAD                                      0.0      0.0       1.0      2.0      2.0       1.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Bilateral                                 11.1     25.6     35.5      34.4     23.9     75.3      81.0     96.7     109.4    106.4    105.4
Germany                                10.7     25.6      15.5     19.4      11.7     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Japan                                  0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      12.2     9.0       9.0      9.2       9.4      0.0      0.0
US                                      0.0      0.0      20.0     15.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Russia                                 0.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Other Bilaterals (plus assumed)        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      66.3     72.0      87.5     100.0    106.4    105.4
Commercial                                0.0       10.1     2.5       9.6      4.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
FDI                                        6.3      54.4    236.3    221.0    96.1    108.8    122.2    140.3    160.8    170.0    180.0
Private Transfers                          0.0       0.0     103.2    137.3    124.4    129.0    134.0    140.0    148.0    153.0    160.0
Grants                                     189.2    140.5    93.2      73.4     97.7      61.4     56.0      39.0     26.0      19.0     10.0
US                                     106.6    65.0      35.6      43.8     43.8      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
EU                                     64.1      52.9      7.8      18.2     32.7     26.4      24.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
France                                  3.0      3.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Netherlands                             2.5      8.6       4.0      8.5      8.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Japan                                   8.0      6.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Other in-kind                           5.0      5.0      45.7      1.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Additional grants needed                 0.0      0.0      0.0       2.1      13.2     35.0     32.0      29.0     26.0      19.0     10.0
Identified Financing                      370.5    395.9    631.9    604.6    511.3    474.7    474.9    455.6    450.4    443.5    452.7
Difference                                418.3    106.6    10.9       39.4    144.7    145.0    167.6    179.5    62.4        28.8      -9.9
of which:
Change in arrears                      119.4   -346.7   -20.6    -69.4       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
rescheduling                           224.9    390.3    61.7       4.6       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Other capital (incl errors&Omissions)   74.0      63.0    -30.2    104.2    69.8       20.1      9.3      7.4       3.8      2.3       0.0
GAP (net)                                0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      74.9    124.9    158.3    172.1      58.6      26.5     -9.9



Annex I
Georgia: Debt Indicators                                                      Page 4 of 4
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003      2004      2005
Total DOD (US$M)                                1221.8   1369.0   1542.4   1682.3   1909.4   2083.9   2238.3   2354.8   2430.2   2459.4   2451.5
Debt Service due after rescheduling (US$M) 1/    170.5    77.5      98.5     127.7    179.3    215.7    239.2    274.2    205.8    214.6    209.3
Total Debt/GDP                                  42.3%    29.9%    29.4%    32.8%    43.7%    40.5%    40.8%S    40.0%    38.6%        36.4%    33.9%
Debt Service afterrescheduling/GDP 1/            5.9%      1.7%     1.9%     2.5%      4.1%     4.2%      4.4%     4.7%      3.3%     3.2%      2.9%/
Debt Service after rescheduling/ Total Exports 1/  35.1%  15.0%     11.6%    14.2%    19.2%    21.6%    21.7%    22.4%      15.1%     14.1%    12.4%
DOD/Export                                      251.6%   265.4%    181.90/o  187.2%   204.5%   209.1%   203.3%    192.4%    177.8%   161.9%/e  145.4%
IBIRD Debt (US$M)                                 0,0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       4.0      13.5      29.0     43.8
IBRD Debt Service Due (USSM)                      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.1       0.6      1.5       2.5
IBRD Debt/GDP                                    0.0%/0    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.1%      0.2%     0.4%      0.6%
IBRD Debt/Total DOD                              0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.2%      0.6%      1.2%     1.8%
IBRD Debt Service! GDCP                          0.0%     0.00/0    0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0. 0.0M/a 0.0%     0.00/a
IBRD Debt Service / Total Exports                0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.00/a    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.1%      0.2%
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service             0.0%     0.0%      0.0%      O 0.0%   0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.1%      0.3%     0.7%      1.2%
IDA Debt (US$M)                                  86.0     162.7    226.9    300.3    406.5    483.9    564.9    633.0    673.9    705.1    730.7
IDA Debt Service Due (US$M)                       0.2      0.6       1.0      1.3       1.8      2.2      2.6       3.0       3.3      4.0       6.2
IDA Debt/GDP                                     3.0%     3.6%      4.3%     5.9%      9.3%     9.4%     10.3%    10.8%      10.7%    10.4%     10.1%
IDA Debt/Total DOD                               7.0%     11.9%     14.7%    17.9%    21.3%    23.2%    25.2%    26.9%      27.7%    28.7%    29.8%
IDA Debt Service/GDP                             0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0,0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.1%      0.1%     0.1%      0.1%
IDA Debt Service/Total Exports                   0.0%     0.1%      0.1%     0.1%      0.2%     0.2%      0.2%     0.2%      0.2%     03%       0.4%
IDADebtService/TotalDebtService                  0.1%     0.8%      1.0%     1.0O%     1.0%      1.0%/0    1.1%    1.1%      1.6%      1.9%     3.0%
Preferred Creditors Debt (US$M)                  206.0    364.2    516.4    651.2    801.5    908.1    983.8    1006.3    997.5    976.3    955.9
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due(US$M)        2.8      6.1       7.5      11.1     33.3     44.1      38.1     56.3      73.0      81.7     75.7
Preferred Creditors Debt/GD!P                    7.1%     8.0%      9.9%     12.7%    18.3%     17.7%    17.9%     17.1%    15.8%     14.5%     13.2%
Preferred Creditors Debt/Total DOD               16.9%    26.6%    33.5%    38,7%    42.0%    43.6%    44.0%    42.7%       41.0%    39.7%    39.00/%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/ GDP            0.1%     0.1%      0.1%     0.2%      0.8%     0.9%      0.7%     1.0%      1.2%      1.2%     1.0%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total Exports  0.6%    1.2%      0.9%     1.2%      3.6%     4.4%      3.5%     4.6%      5.3%     5.4%      4.5%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/Total Debt Service  1.6%  7.8%     7.6%     8.7%      18.6%    20.5%    15.9%/a   20.5%    35.5%    38.1%    36.1%
i/ Debt scrvice figures correspond to debt service due after all the rescheduling arrangements are taken into account, and all other arrears
and non-EU debt service due in 95, 96 and 97 are rescheduled at 10 year maturity, 5 year grace and 4 percent interest. It includes also dues to Turkmenistan which is still under negotiation.
Preferred Creditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.
All the debt is public.



Annex 2
Government of Georgia
Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Lefter of Development Policy
May 1999
1.    Georgia has achieved significant progress under the stabilization and adjustment
programs launched in 1994. The fiscal and monetary policies implemented have succeeded in
bringing down inflation, reducing internal and external imbalances and stabilizing the exchange
rate. Under the government program, a number of key reforms have been implemented including
the liberalization of price and trade regimes, reform of the banking sector, a large program of
privatization, and the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework for private sector
development. Thanks to the combination of sound fiscal and monetary policies and important
strides in the implementation of the structural reform agenda, real economic growth has resumed
in 1995 and exceeded 10 percent in 1997.
2.    The economic and financial situation deteriorated significantly in 1998 due to a
combination of internal factors and external shocks. The fiscal outlook changed with the
emergence very early in the year of serious difficulties as a result of unaccounted for refugees
expenditure delays in introducing a number of policy measures to broaden the tax base and weak
tax collection. With the devastating impact of the Russian crisis on the Georgian economy during
the second half of the year, the weak fiscal stance of the first six months of 1998 culminated into
a fiscal crisis. Unable to meet its revenue and expenditure targets, the Government undertook
successive rounds of across the board expenditure cuts and, despite the cuts, accumulated large
payment arrears in particular to the health sector. Tax revenues remained consistently below
targets, covering only 64 percent of current expenditures.
3.    The onset of the Russian crisis in August 1998 led to a strong appreciation of the
Georgian Lari (GEL) against the Ruble, boosting the competitivity of Russian products, lowering
the value in domestic currency of workers remittances and depriving Georgian exporters from
their primary market. The volume of worker remittances and transit goods to Russia from
Georgia declined substantially and the payment system deteriorated sharply. The loss of
competitiveness and the weak fiscal stance translated into intense pressures on the foreign
exchange market
4.    Despite the National Bank of Georgia efforts to tighten monetary policy to eliminate
excess demand pressure in the foreign exchange market, foreign reserves dwindled from the
equivalent of two months of imports before the Russian crisis to about two weeks by end-
November. By the end of the year, the Government decided to take major steps to correct the
internal and external imbalances built-up in 1998. A number of revenue-enhancing measures
were adopted in November, and in early December, the NBG announced its decision to stop
intervention and let the GEL float to reach a new equilibrium.
5.    Real GDP growth reached 2.9 percent (less than half the original target), the fiscal deficit
reached 4.3 percent of GDP against a target of 2 percent and the current account deficit rose to 12
percent of GDP from 10.9 percent in 1997. Inflation, which reached a record low 1 percent over
the first 9 months, rose considerably following the depreciation of the GEL, reaching 10.6 percent



Page 2 of 14
in December. Because the inflationary shock occurred by the end of the year, average inflation
declined to about 3.6 percent for 1998 from 7.1 percent in 1997.
6.    Against this background, the objectives of the Government reform program are to correct
the growing macroeconomic imbalances, strengthen the economy's capacity to address the shocks
stemming from the Russian crisis and maintain it on a sustainable high growth path, and ensure
the provision of basic social services to vulnerable groups. The Government's program will focus
on four key areas: (a) strengthen the fiscal position by enhancing revenues and improving
expenditure management while allowing for adequate allocations to key social services; (b) create
an environment favorable to private sector development; (c) reform land ownership to stimulate
agricultural output and boost the development of real estate and financial markets; and (d)
promote private participation in infrastructure and complete state divestiture from the enterprise
sector.
A. Reducing Macroeconomic Imbalances and Strengthening the Fiscal Position
7.   In order to improve Georgia's fiscal and external position, the Government objective is to
reduce the overall fiscal deficit (on a commitment basis) to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1999.
Monetary and exchange rate policies will aim at lowering inflation and stabilizing the exchange
rate. In response to the Government tight monetary policy to contain the inflationary pressures
which followed the GEL depreciation, inflation which hiked early 1999 is expected to abate by
the end of the year. Hence average inflation is expected to reach 22 percent for the whole year
and 13 percent by end-1999. On the external front the Government objective is to reduce the
current account deficit from 12 percent in 1998 to 10.4 percent in 1999 and rebuild the level of
reserves to the equivalent of two months of imports.
A.1. Strengthening the Fiscal Position.
Improving Revenue Mobilization
8.    In 1998, revenues covered only 64 percent of expenditure. This was due to delays in
introducing a number of policy measures aimed at broadening the tax base and bringing into the
tax net large segments of the economy. Lax tax enforcement and poor collection have also largely
contributed to difficulties in mobilizing revenues. In order to correct internal imbalances, the
Govermment has adopted a two-pronged approach involving policy measures to reduce
exoneration and special tax advantages, and strengthening the revenue administration to enhance
collection and combat fraud and corruption. The Government has removed all tax exemptions on
wheat and flour, introduced VAT taxation on agriculture, removed other VAT exemptions,
introduced a land surcharge tax, restored the 12 percent customs duty on natural gas and
electricity, placed a 60 percent excise duty on all petroleum products, and issued excise stamps on
cigarettes and alcoholic products.
9.    The Government is aware that efficient, and accountable tax institutions are key to the
success of revenue mobilization effort and to a sound business environment. In order for the tax
policy to reach its revenue mobilization objectives while minimizing economic distortions and
ensuring a fair, equitable, neutral and non discriminatory treatment of taxpayers, the Government
is also implementing sweeping institutional changes in the tax and customs administration.
10. Concerning customs, the Government had embarked over the last two years on a program
of modernization of the State Customs Department (SCD) which collects custom duties, VAT and
excise on imports. The program includes institutional strengthening (review of staffing needs;
internal reorganization; adoption of new procedures and controls), and improvement in physical



Page 3 of 14
infrastructure (computerization and improved communications; rehabilitation of facilities).
However most of the benefits of the ongoing modernization program will take two to three years
to fully be realized. Currently, collection of customs revenues is still highly constrained by weak
control of customs territory; porous borders allowing for easy smuggling; massive tax evasion on
excisable goods; under-invoicing of imports; weak enforcement capacity; splitting of
consignment under personal exemption regime; and poor control of transit traffic.
11.   In view of the tight fiscal position and the need to raise additional revenues, the
Government intends to complement the existing institutional program by hiring a foreign
contractor to carry out significant customs functions. Contracting out customs functions is a
transitory solution. The Government's long term objective is to build a modern and efficient
customs department. For that purpose, an effective program of partnership and skills transfer
between the contractor and the customs Department will be developed.
12.   Concerning the tax administration, initial Government efforts concentrated on
establishing or reorganizing tax institutions. Hence the State Tax Department of Georgia (STDG)
and its regional branches, which collect most central and local government domestic taxes, were
reorganized along functional lines in 1995, and a Large Taxpayer Unit was established in 1996.
To increase the efficiency of tax collections, the responsibility for the collection of payroll taxes
was transferred from the Pension Fund to the STDG in 1998. The Tax Code of Georgia was
enacted and is implemented. The STDG is being reorganized along functional lines to separate
out policy, management and control functions, allowing for clear responsibility and performance
delineation.
13.   In addition, with substantial donor assistance, methodologies for dealing with third party
information and producing programs for the collection of tax arrears, the investigation of non-
filing and stop-filing of tax returns, and the collection of tax debts have been prepared. Training
of tax inspectors in the basic skills of collection has been performed. A program of training of
trainers is also being implemented to allow in-house training to begin. A training program on
auditing procedures, standards and measures is underway and a Manager Manual has been
produced. Numerous meetings have been held with general community groups, the business
community and high schools to educate the public on their rights and responsibilities. A review of
the pay and grading structure of the STDG is underway, which will identify and use private sector
comparators as a basis for its development. Two pilot offices have been computerized and the
remaining will follow as soon as the necessary hardware is received.
14.   Based on a thorough review of the performance problems of the tax administration, the
Government will further streamline its organization set-up. A number of key measures will be
introduced in the coming months to ensure that local government involvement optimizes tax
revenues, increase efficiency by consolidating tax offices and pooling resources, strengthen
personnel management and incentive systems. These measures will allow for a turnaround in tax
collection in 1999. The Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU) is being strengthened to achieve the objective
of mobilizing 50 percent of STDG revenues through the LTU by July 1, 1999. The Government
will also ensure effective implementation of the order abolishing the dual subordination or
reporting arrangements for district/local tax offices so that these offices report vertically only to
STDG management and not any longer to or through the district or local authorities. As a first
steps towards the consolidation of regional tax inspectorates in Tbilisi, the 10 Tbilisi Regional
Tax Inspectorates (RTI) will report to and be brought under the full direction of headquarters. As
a next step, the RTIs will be consolidated into larger units.
15.   The Government has established a special tax force (STF) of hand-picked tax inspectors,
to be placed under the direct control of the STDG chairman to oversee the implementation of the



Page 4 of 14
tax administration strengthening measures. The STF will concentrate on large taxpayers, and
local and regional offices who account for 80 percent of tax revenues. It will focus its activity on
the implementation of measures to expand the tax base, and the programs for the collection of tax
debts and arrears and the investigation of non-filing and stop-filing of tax returns.
16.   The Government is aware that all of these initiatives to build a strong and professional
tax department need to be complemented by strong measures to introduce discipline,
professionalism and accountability. The Government has required all revenue administration
employees to submit their declarations of income and assets. As a result, declarations of senior
officials are being filed with the Bureau on Information on Assets and Finance on Senior Public
Officials. Declarations of all other STDG employees have already been filed with the Bureau of
Public Service. A new STDG management structure has been introduced. Job descriptions, and
objectives associated with each work activity including agreed performance measures have been
prepared for both the management and the staff. A Performance Appraisal System to judge the
efficiency and effectiveness of all individuals within STDG will be established by September
1999 and will be used initially at three-month intervals to assess progress. An in-confidence
telephone hotline has been set up in the central STDG so that the public can report harassment
and/or intimidation. The STDG has also instituted disciplinary proceedings against more than 150
tax inspectors.
17.   Formal appeal and investigation systems to investigate complaints against tax inspectors
will be established by December 1999. The system will be responsive, transparent and will
include built-in safeguards against abuse of process. Available technical assistance will be
utilized to undertake a series of high-level efficiency scrutiny of the whole STDG and monitor
progress in efficiency and effectiveness. With support from the donor community, the
Government wants to define the STDG's medium term strategic objectives and technical
assistance needs. A full assessment will be undertaken in the coming months. Finally the
Government will regularly identify and undertake actions against the worst tax offenders and will
provide IDA with periodic reports on progress with dealing with delinquent taxpayers.
A.2. Strengthening Expenditure Management.
Strengthening Expenditure Management
18.   The reorganization of the Ministry of Finance along functional lines is underway to
strengthen the ministry's control over the management of revenue and expenditure. The Budget
Department will work with spending ministries and others so that budget proposals are properly
costed and expenditure outcomes are agreed. It will also work closely with counterparts in the
Treasury to ensure that revenues are allocated in accordance with agreed budget plans and that
outcomes are achieved.
19.   A new computerized system of revenue allocation has been introduced to ensure that
priority core expenditure functions are satisfied before all else. The new system will eliminate the
subjectivity of the present system and increase the sensitivity of the allocation process.
20.   The restructured Treasury Department will complement the budgeting process by
providing links - through its regional network, which will monitor actual expenditure against its
intended purpose. Treasury departments will work with spending ministries and others to create
accountability trails so that the disbursement of revenues can be tracked to the point of
expenditure. To that purpose, the Treasury will require spending ministries and others to provide
monthly/quarterly reports which will describe how much revenues was received and how it was
spent. These new procedures will require improvements to the computer capacity within the



Page 5 of 14
Ministry and the creation of data exchange interfaces within, the ministry, between the treasury
and its regions and with tax and customs.
21.   The Government's objective is to ensure that an expenditure management system that is
efficient, transparent, and responsive to the stated expenditure priorities is in place. Because of
the absence of such a system in the past, priority expenditure, such as those on health, education
and poverty benefits have suffered from revenue shortfall, liquidity constraints and cash
management weaknesses.
22.   All health, education and poverty benefits are core priority expenditures within the
mandatory budgetary classification. As such, they are an integral part of the primary allocation of
revenues collected every month. In the 1999 budget, the Government has allocated to the
education sector 13 percent of its overall consolidated budget including central and local budget
outlays, the extrabudgetary funds and the State Medical Insurance Company (SMIC), and
excluding amortization and repayment of the stock of arrears. All arrears to health and education
will be repaid in 1999. The Government is aware that the allocation to education should concern
only Government expenditures and should not include additional financial resources such as
payments made by parents, school fees and other, administered under special funds. Hence, the
1999 allocation excludes these special funds contribution to both the central and local budgets.
23.   Government allocation to the health sector amounts to 7.3 percent of the consolidated
budget. This allocation consists in Government expenditure and does not include disbursements
under the World Bank-funded health project. Since the basic package of services to the
population is funded by the SMIC through payroll contributions, the Government will ensure that
any shortfall in the collection of payroll tax would be fully compensated by resources from the
central budget. In order to ensure budget execution at all levels of Government, transfers from the
central to the local budgets will specify the share of resources to be spent on health. In the 2000
budget the same ratios will be applied for Health and education. The allocation to the poverty
benefit will ensure that it remains , at a minimum constant in real terms.
24.   In order for the health agencies to be able to plan basic core expenditures, the
Government will ensure a smooth cash flow over the year. Hence, no less than 75 percent of the
monthly share of the approved 1999 budget will be transferred to the responsible agencies by the
end of each month. Within health expenditure, some programs are crucial to the welfare of the
general population. The core health expenditures and responsible agencies include: the program
of the SMIC, the Ministry of Health's Medical Preventive Measures Program and the Ministry of
Health's Other Program. Similarly, the Government considers that expenditures on general
education are a core priority within the education budget and will specify the share of overall
transfers to the local Governments to be devoted to general education.
25.   The Government intends to reestablish an adequate level of poverty benefit in 1999.
Confronted with large revenue shortfalls in 1998, the Government has further tightened the
benefits in an effort to reach the poor more effectively in the context of a highly constrained
budget. Based on the analysis of the Household Survey conducted by the State Department of
Statistics in collaboration with the World Bank, eligible categories were reduced to one of the
most vulnerable groups of the population, poor single pensioners. The Government will maintain
the current number of eligible pensioners but increase the benefit to a level sufficient to bring
their monthly expenditure up to the level of the minimum poverty line. The Government has
allocated 14.3 million Lari for the poverty benefit. This allocation will allow the Government to
reach some 55000 applicants currently registered as poor single pensioners. The level of
assistance will be 18 Lari per poor single pensioner and 29 Lari for two poor single pensioners



Page 6 of 14
living together. Overall transfers to the local governments will specify the amount allocated to the
poverty benefit.
26.   In order to ensure adequate execution of these core social expenditures, the Government
has established a special monitoring mechanism for health, education and the poverty benefit. No
later than the 20f* of each month, the Ministry of Finance will provide each of the concerned
entities (local governments, line ministries and SMIC) with a report detailing the amount of
money transferred and the expenditure for which they are budgeted. Similarly, no later than the
20th of the month, each of the entities will provide information to the Ministry of Finance and the
respective line ministries with a report detailing resources received for the previous months and
expenditures performed. For the purpose of supervision of the credit, copies of these reports will
be provided to the World Bank Resident Mission.
B. Creating an Environment Favorable to Private Sector Development
27.   Based on feedback from the business community, the Government intends to introduce
measures to enhance the business environment. The Government is aware of the importance of a
sound business environment to foster a dynamic domestic private sector and attract foreign
investors. The quality of the business environment is a function of the regulatory framework in
place as well as its actual implementation. While the Government has ensured over the last years
that a sound legal and regulatory framework for private activities is in place, it is concerned by
private sector complaints about weakness in implementation, and administrative abuses.
28.   Arbitrary interpretations of laws and regulations, multiple licensing requirements and
overlapping institutions claiming jurisdiction over various aspects of business activity, frequent
and unjustified visits of tax inspection teams, complex business registration practices, contribute
to discourage new entry, and greatly raise the uncertainty, risk and cost of doing business. The
Government's program of reform of the tax and customs administration and the licensing regime
are designed to address the issues of interface between the administration and the private sector
by establishing feedback and appeal mechanisms to fight corruption and abuses.
29.   The Government intends to reform its licensing system, which is currently perceived by
the business community as being a major constraint to enterprise efficiency and development.
The goal of the reform is to create a licensing regime that is effective, consistent, transparent and
understandable. This initiative will significantly reduce the heavy burden on firms of excessive
and unnecessary regulations. Regulatory statutes will be simplified, and their implementation-
along with deregulation- publicly monitored. In April 1999, the Government submitted to the
Parliament a new draft law on licensing. This law reforming and simplifying the licensing regime
was enacted end-May 1999.
30.   The new law provides that licensing can be undertaken only in exceptional cases
involving safety of persons and the security of the state since it limits the constitutional right of
trade and commerce. The law provides for adequate arrangement for external monitoring. To
enhance its effectiveness, the law has fewer, more transparent and non-discretionary
implementing regulations.
31.   The law defines the circumstances when licensing can be applied; lists the categories of
activities that are subject to licensing; and criteria for adding to or eliminating activities from the
list. Licensing in a field is regulated only on the basis of the specific legal provisions and not by
any other law or instructions; and any license issued for a particular activity is the only
instrument that controls that activity. The law also provides for time-bound procedures for
suspension, termination and annulment of licenses. The law promotes transparency by providing



Page 7 of 14
for a public register where licenses will be registered. The law specifies that provisions for
concrete licensing conditions and procedures should be in writing, limit discretion, and be
publicly accessible. It defines a procedure for monitoring of license holders as well as for
external monitoring of licensors.
32.   The methodology and processes, needed to ensure sound implementation, will be defined
by end-July 1999. The Government will draft and promulgate implementing regulations and
perform a baseline regulatory assessment to determine the existing conditions, procedures, cost
and burden of licensing, against which improverments can be monitored and measured. To that
purpose, a systematic methodology for reviewing the necessity and effectiveness of existing and
proposed regulations will be developed. The review will provide an effective filtering
mechanism to ensure that unnecessary procedures are not considered. The filtering mechanism
will provide a framework and criteria against which proposed licenses have to be assessed, so
that proposals, which do not fulfil the criteria, are filtered out at the initial stage. The steps
needed to analyze and amend/eliminate relevant regulations will be specified and feedback
studies will be conducted to ensure the regulatory burden falls in practice as envisaged in the
law.
33.   Following the strengthening of the legal and institutional framework for licensing, the
Government will embark on a program to modemize the framework for certification and
accreditation since these areas are closely connected with licensing and their modernization
crucial to the quality of the business environment.
34.   In the past, there was a lack of clearly assigned institutional responsibility to develop a
state procurement system. Other elements required for a state procurement system (e.g. enabling
regulations, country specific procurement documents and manuals etc.) were also lacking. The
absence of a comprehensive procurement system has created a vacuum and Government
agencies have adopted ad hoc practices, which vary from sector to sector and even from agency
to agency. The current practices lack sufficient transparency and accountability -a serious
impediment in introducing discipline in public expenditure.
35.   The Government considers that a modern and transparent state procurement system is
critical to support the on going economic reforms and the emerging private sector. It will enable
development of the private sector by providing intending suppliers a level playing field, besides
reducing rent-seeking opportunities. As a first step, a new Law on State Procurement has been
enacted in December 1998. The next steps of the procurement reform are to develop and
introduce a comprehensive set of implementing regulations and country-specific bidding
documents and manuals to regulate and manage state procurement in the country. By end-June
1999, a procurement regulatory and oversight agency will be fully staffed. The development of
training material and delivery of workshops to introduce the new system will follow.
36.   The Government's efforts are directed to complete the first phase of the public
procurement reforms. The institutional arrangements already implemented include the
establishment of an independent Department of State Procurement within the Ministry of
Economy, with a Director appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Ministry of
Economy: the Director can be removed only by the President. The Department is the regulatory
and oversight agency for state procurement. Regulations defining the functional scope of the
Department have also been issued.
37.   The Government will complete the following critical elements of the state procurement
reforms. The process of competitive recruitment of other staff for the Department to be fully
operational will be completed by end-June 1999. Comprehensive procurement regulations will be



Page 8 of 14
promulgated by June 1999. A set of country-specific procurement documents and manuals will be
adopted by September 1999. An institutional strengthening plan to implement the system ,on the
basis of agreed key measures, will also be adopted and relevant training and workshops will be
offered. The Government will specify and apply benchmarks to agencies with large procurement
budgets, to monitor the implementation of the new procedures to be prescribed by the Law and
implementing regulations by December 1999.
38.   In order to facilitate entry for new businesses, the Government has simplified registration
procedures, which are in practice unnecessarily more complex than what is prescribed by the law.
Hence, three steps have been eliminated: the requirement to obtain a stamp/seal from the local
police and other administrative entities; the regulation of the National Bank of Georgia
prohibiting commercial banks to open new accounts for new businesses without a seal; and the
active role of the Statistics Department (SD). As envisioned in the law, the SD should receive all
the information from the Courts when a business is registered into the Enterprise Register but
should not require the business owners to visit the department and provide it with the information.
In addition the current practice of the tax administration which entails eight signatures for the
issuance of a tax ID code has been streamlined to reduce the number to one as envisaged in the
law. These changes have been introduced and will be widely publicized. These measures are
expected to benefit micro-enterprises, which are particularly vulnerable to administrative abuses,
and to reduce the incentive to remain in the informal sector.
39.   The Government wants to establish a partnership with the business community and create
a feedback mechanism to monitor the quality of the business environment and act rapidly to
correct abuses. To that effect the already existing investment council, chaired by the President
and composed of high-ranking Government officials and parliamentary Committees Chairmen,
will be enlarged to include representatives of the business community and CERMA (Center for
Restructuring and Management Assistance)-an NGO involved in supporting the development of
the private sector. The enlarged Investment Council will meet quarterly to discuss issues related
to the quality of the business climate. CERMA would act as the Council secretariat for these
meetings, prepare background material and quarterly reports.
C.    Reform Land Ownership to Boost Agricultural Production and the Development of
Real Estate and Financial Markets
40.   The Government has embarked on a program of land privatization as a first step in
promoting active land and real estate markets. In the agricultural sector, the Government expects
active land markets to increase the productivity of land by permitting consolidation or subdivision
of holdings over the next years to a more efficient size. Similarly, the development of real estate
markets in cities is especially important to permit the turnover of large expanses of unused
enterprise land for more productive purposes, such as for use by private sector commercial
entities, without requiring substantial capital investment in new infrastructure.
41.   The government is aware that land itself has value and using land for collateral is one
important way for owners to gain access to additional capital resources. This is especially
important in urban areas because most of Georgia's real assets are locked up in real estate, of
which land is an integral part. The ability to borrow against both agricultural and urban land will
provide an important source of financing for additional new investments by the private sector. It
will also broaden the currently narrow range of financial services provided by the banking sector.
Hence the Government intends to establish an adequate legal and regulatory framework to allow
for the use of land and building as collateral and encourage maintenance of the existing stock of
real estate. To that effect, the Government has assessed the adequacy of civil code dispositions
regarding the mortgage and condominium legal framework. There is a consensus that the current



Page 9 of 14
framework is broadly adequate. The Government will monitor developments and address any
legal or practical bottlenecks that may appear to hamper land mortgaging. Regarding
condominiums, however, substantial assistance will be needed to build owners organization
management structures in order to enhance the effectiveness of the civil code dispositions.
42.  Land reform and farm restructuring began with Government resolution 48 of January 1992.
By January 1996, 20 percent of all agricultural land had been privatized, which included 43
percent of all arable land and 60 percent of all land under perennials. Most of this land is in plots
of up to 1.25 ha and is used for subsistence. Land distribution to individuals ceased in 1996 with
the passing of the Land Lease Law under which land not distributed to individuals can be
commercially leased from the state for up to 49 years, even though most lease terms to date end
after 10 years. Under the land reform program, farmers received preliminary ownership rights to
the land, however for full ownership rights, the land needs to be registered.
43.  The Government recognizes this problem and has initiated a nation-wide program to
establish registration offices, develop consistent registration procedures, and begin registration of
parcels on demand. In order to register land parcels they need to be surveyed and the appropriate
documents presented to the registry local office. The World Bank Agricultural Development
Project (ADP) is assisting the Government to develop a pilot project to systematically survey and
register all parcels in two districts outside of Tblisi, Mtskheta and Gardabani. Fortunately, the
Georgian title registration law permits the use of "general boundaries" principle, which allows for
more rapid execution of parcel surveys. The Government is aware that without registration of
parcels, individuals cannot freely transfer land. For this reason the Government will issue the
regulations and operating procedures for the title registration system satisfactory to IDA, and
begin implementing these new registration procedures in mid-1999.
44.  The Government wants to begin registering land in the two pilot districts, where some of
the systematic surveys of land parcels have already been completed. It will begin registering land
when construction of the registration offices in these two districts has been completed in July
1999. The World Bank has also proposed that the State Department of Land Management
(SDLM) prepare a program for upgrading other registration offices outside of the two pilot areas,
for possible ADP funding. This would allow sporadic registration in areas outside of the pilot
areas, and training for registry personnel. The Government has also approached other donors for
funding to expand the titling program to other areas. Lessons learned for the pilot regions will be
implemented in other registration offices as the program is rolled out.
45.    Concerning non-agricultural land, the legal framework consists of two laws recently
enacted to govern the transfer of ownership rights from the public to the private sector. The law
"On Declaration of Private Ownership of Non-agricultural Land in Use of Physical and Private
Legal Person." permits privatized enterprises, private legal persons and private citizens to
privatize land allocated to them. The law declares the land allocated to privatized enterprises,
private legal persons and private citizens to be private based on existing sketches and
documentation. Privatized land will be registered rapidly without additional surveying after
payment of a one-time fee equal to one times the annual land tax (or two times the annual land
tax after January 1, 1999). Implementation of this law requires the State Department of Land
Management (SDLM) regional and municipal registrars to rapidly register the privatized land.
The Government will ensure the capacity of the registrars to provide timely registration in
accordance with this legislation. So far 3184 enterprises have registered their land.
46.    The second law 'On Administration and Disposition of State -owned Non-agricultural
Land' regulates how state-owned non-agricultural land will be administered and disposed of both
by privatization and by lease. The Government recognizes that this law presents a number of



Page 10 of 14
shortcomings. The law promotes leasing instead of privatization of state land with the
shortcoming that the value of leased land decreases with time instead of increasing and leased
land has less value as collateral than land owned outright. Also the law provides broad powers to
the State Department of Land Management (SDLM), which may create a conflict of interest. The
specific responsibilities assigned to the SDLM under the law include the organization,
negotiation, conclusion of transactions, and enforcement of lease contracts. These responsibilities
are in addition to the SDLM' s already existing broad responsibilities to register and provide
information about land, deternine land use and to verify that land is being used as has been
agreed.
47.   In June 1999, the Government will amend the law "On Administration and Disposition of
State-Owned Non-agricultural land" and issue implementing regulations to integrate features
central for development of real estate markets. The amended law and its implementing
regulations will promote privatization over leasing, greatly expand the property rights of holders
of Government leases and provide for the organization of future privatization through competitive
processes as well as regulating direct disposition. In addition, the amended law will enhance
transparency by further defining the privatization mechanism and delimiting the roles of the
relevant public bodies including local self government, the SDLM, the Ministry of Urbanization
and Construction, the Ministry of State Property Management. In this regard, the role of the
SDLM in land privatization will be greatly reduced.
D.   Promote Private Participation in Infrastructure and Divest from the Enterprise
Sector
D.1. Private Participation in Infrastructure.
48.   The Government is intensifying its privatization effort in the infrastructure sector with the
objective to stimulate export activities, improve the overall efficiency of the economy, enhance
connectivity to the rest of the world and improve the welfare of the population. The Government
program includes ports, airports, energy, water and telecommunication infrastructure. A
comprehensive program of divestiture from the power, oil and gas sectors is being developed and
will be implemented with support from IDA under the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit.
Development of strategies for the Privatization of Telecommunication, Poti Port and the Tbilisi
Water Utility are underway with the view of completing privatization in those sectors in 1999-
2000.
49.  In the telecommunication sector, where substantial private investment has taken place, the
Government objectives are to increase transparency in all telecommunication activities,
strengthen anti-monopoly mechanisms, privatize the remaining assets and rejuvenate and expand
local service and service to rural and under-served regions using market-based mechanisms. The
Government is hiring internationally experienced advisors to assist with the definition of sector
policy, regulatory framework, and the privatization of the remaining state-owned assets.
50.   The Government intends to sell its remaining 51 percent shares in Georgia
Telecommunications (GT) and 75 percent of its shares in Georgia Electro Communications
(GEC) by international competitive tender. In order to increase the attractiveness of these assets
and enhance competition the Government has given GT and GEC the licenses for both domestic
and international operations. The Government is committed to developing a competitive
telecommunications sector and will eschew the granting of exclusive rights. The Government
intends to obtain the services of an investment bank (by end-August 1999) to assist in the
privatization of GT and GEC and has already obtained the services of a regulatory advisor. The
Government will submit to IDA for non objection a satisfactory privatization strategy and



Page 11 of 14
timetable and a regulatory framework by end-October 1999. The Government will offer for sale
the telecommunication companies Georgia Telecommunications and Georgia Electro
Communications by end February 2000.
51.   Regarding Poti Port, the Government objectives are to develop a competitive port
capacity in order to foster Georgian trade, play a significant role in the Regional maritime transit
traffic and develop the transport sector, and to reduce its financial involvement in port
development. These objectives require that modern seaport technologies and organization be
introduced, existing facilities be revamped and developed, management skills be improved, and
that the private sector be associated with operation and financing of port terminals. The strategy
involves separating commercial activities and regulatory functions and to grant concessions to
private operators through a competitive and transparent process. More than 50 per cent of port
output by volume is expected to be under the control of private concessionaires by the end of the
year 2000. The Government intends to establish joint-stock companies in charge of operation,
development and financing of the main components of port activities. These companies will
lease corresponding pieces of infrastructure and their assets will be under majority private
ownership.
52.   A new, financially sustainable, Port Authority will be created, acting as Landlord-port in
charge of regulation, management of public properties (common use infrastructure) and long-
term planning. The regulatory powers of the Poti Port Authority and the contents of the
concessions agreement will be structured to ensure that private operators do not engage in
monopolistic practices. By end September 1999, the Government will submit to IDA for non
objection a satisfactory development strategy and regulatory framework for Poti Port. By end
February 2000, the Government will hire international advisors to prepare and market the
information memorandum, prepare and review bidding documents and assist in bids evaluation
and negotiations with the potential investors; in addition they will advise the Government in
related matters, mainly human resources and labor issues.. All privatization in the infrastructure
sector will be undertaken in the context of strategies specifying the Government objectives for
the concerned sub-sectors, and adequate regulatory arrangements and privatization modalities.
53.   To support the Government's strategies for infrastructure development, facilitate
enterprise restructuring by new owners and enhance privatization proceeds, important
modifications have been made to the privatization legal and institutional framework. The law "On
Declaration of Private ownership of Non-agricultural Land in Use of Physical and Private Legal
Person." includes land as an integral part of the assets being privatized. The Law on State
Property Privatization has been amended to permit the privatization of telecommunications;
postal services; radio and television broadcasting; railways; water and sanitation systems;
airports; gas distribution pipelines; ports; and roads (for which parallel state-roads exist). In
addition, to provide sufficient flexibility for structuring transactions, the privatization and other
relevant legislation will be amended by end July 1999 to eliminate maximum lease terms and
minimum annual payments.
54.   To provide sufficient support for the Government's privatization of both infrastructure
and other medium/large enterprises, the President has created a Permanent Oversight Commission
(POC). Regular POC members include the ministers of State Property Management, Finance,
and Economy; Presidential Aide for Economic Reforms; and Chairman of the Parliamentary
Committee of Economic Reforms and Economic Policy. Depending upon the issue, heads of line
ministries also participate. The POC plays a key role in securing cooperation and support from
all official bodies for the Government's privatization program and provides sufficient guidance
and oversight so that the Ministry of State Property Management (MSPM) can implement the
Government's privatization program in an efficient manner.



Page 12 of 14
55.   The Government is committed to completing the rapid transfer of remaining
shareholdings and productive assets to private-sector owners and managers rapidly and
transparently. By including land as part of enterprise privatization, limiting the liabilities of new
owners to those known at the time of the privatization transaction, and intensifying its marketing
efforts, the Government will also seek to maximize privatization proceeds. Because past tenders
suffered from insufficient time and support, the Government has modified tender procedures to
give prospective investors up to 4 months to complete due diligence and develop investment
proposals.
56.   In addition, the Government has taken steps to limit the liability of new enterprise owners
to amounts known at the time of the transaction and to discourage fraud while protecting rightful
creditors. Lastly, the Government has substantially increased its public information and
marketing efforts. These now include regular advertisements in leading national newspapers.
Weekly press conferences and in-depth interviews; television coverage; and information
distribution on the internet, to foreign embassies, and through Georgia's overseas embassies are
also used for marketing purposes.
D.2. Privatization of Medium/Large (Non-Infrastructure) Enterprises.
57.   The Government's privatization program covers 364 enterprises, divided into three
"tiers." Based on a preliminary classification, Tier I consists of 29 State-majority enterprises that
the Government wishes to privatize by tender or auctions. Tier II consists of 31 State-majority
enterprises that the Government expects to privatize through public auction. Tier III consists of
mostly minority shareholdings in 304 enterprises for which the Government is already holding
public auctions.
58.   By end- 1998, the Government completed special auctions for minority shareholdings in
244 Tier III companies. The results of these auctions were announced and information on the new
shareholders forwarded to share registrars. State shareholdings in another 60 Tier III companies
will be auctioned by end-June 1999.
59.    The Government will focus its marketing efforts on the 29 "Tier I" companies that will
be offered for tender. If offers are not received by December 1999, company shares will be
offered through public auction to other investors. The Government plans to privatize the 31 "Tier
II" companies through special auctions, similar to those now underway and due to be completed
by year-end 1999.
60.   The Tier I companies include those of potential interest to foreign investors and which
would benefit most from capital inflows, technology transfer, managerial expertise, and greater
access to export markets. Companies categorized as Tier I include the motor vehicles, tractors,
paint, electric machines, and wool plants in Kutaisi, Georgian Air, Azot fertilizer, and a chemical
fibers plant.
61.   The Government is aware that even companies categorized as Tier I are deeply
distressed. Although they may have retained their production base and a trained workforce, these
enterprise have suffered from a complete disruption of former markets, supply sources, and high
debt. Whereas, for instance, the Kolkhida motor car plant in Kutaisi fornerly employed 12,000
workers, only 350 are currently employed in a small portion of this large plant producing cotton
machinery for Central Asia.



Page 13 of 14
62.    Hence, before issuing any tenders, the MSPM will assess the viability of Tier I
companies. A preliminary assessment was undertaken and classified two Tier I enterprises for
carve-out, two for liquidations and the rest to either be tendered or auctioned. By July 15, 1999,
the MSPM will present a formal assessment to the World Bank for non-objection which will
place each Tier I company into one of three categories: (1) viable and suitable for tendering(or
auction) "as is;" (2) partly viable, but with substantial excess assets requiring divestment; or (3)
non-viable.
63.    For viable/suitable Tier I companies, The Government will issue tenders (or auctions),
directly to pre-identified prospective investors and/or through publicly advertised requests for
proposals by end-July 1999. For financially distressed companies, which typically characterizes
Tier I companies, The Government may issue tenders for 1 Lari symbolic payment - backed up
by investment, employment, or other guarantees. A tender package issued by the Government
may make suggestions about necessary investment and other items of interest, but these are not
binding on bidders. In developing information memoranda and information summaries for Tier I
companies, The Government will make efficient and maximum use of data already collected by
the MSPM and information memorandum previously developed by The MSPM case-by-case
privatization program.
64.   For partly viable companies with substantial excess assets, a Resolution Unit will be
created in the Ministry. Among its other activities, this unit will identify ("carve out") land,
structures, and other assets and liabilities that will be used by the viable portion of the enterprise;
retain remaining assets and liabilities for sale and settlement by the MSPM; and prepare an initial
balance sheet for the viable part of the enterprise. Preparation of the viable portion of an
enterprise for tender will be strictly limited to this "carve out" of associated assets and liabilities.
Neither the MSPM nor any Government entity will undertake any operational restructuring or
additional investment. Companies undergoing "carve out" will be offered for tender by
December 1, 1999
65.    Criteria for formally classifying an enterprise for a carve-out has been prepared. In order
for an enterprise to enter into a carve-out operation, it must: (i) be a very large enterprise which
would be unlikely to find investor interest if sold "as is"; (ii) there must be discrete business units
which appear to be viable if sold as is (such as would be for enterprises with different product
lines, vertically integrated enterprises or simply large single-product enterprises whose
technology allows for sale as discrete business units); (iii) the MSPM has a carve-out strategy that
can be implemented rapidly and does in no case involve operational restructuring or in-depth
financial restructuring, i.e. no new infusion of capitaL For any Tier I companies deemed to be
non-viable, all assets and liabilities will immediately be assigned to the Resolution Unit for sale
and settlement.
66.   Depending upon the date a tender is issued and whether or not foreign investment is a
realistic prospect, up to 4 months will be allowed for prospective investors to complete their due
diligence and to prepare and submit a tender. Thus, all tenders should be received by December
7, 1999. For companies for which tenders have been received, by end-January 2000, the
Government tender commission will decide whether to accept a tender offer or assign shares for
auction. For tendered Tier I companies for which no tender offers are received, state-owned
shares will then be offered for public auction or liquidated.
67.   In the interest of moving the process along and returning assets to productive use as
rapidly as possible, any tender negotiations will be cqmpleted no later than end-January 2000. If
both parties have not agreed on the transaction by then, the Government will assign state-owned
shares for public auction. So as not to have any opportunity to acquire a company more cheaply



Page 14 of 14
through public auction, the potential investor from an unsuccessful tender negotiation would be
precluded from participating in the follow-on public auction for shares in that company. By end-
February 2000, the Government would have divested from at least 20 Tier I companies through
tender, public auction, or asset sale/liquidation.
68.   Prospects are negligible for the 31 Tier II companies. Hence, the Government will move
immediately to privatize its shareholdings through public auction. Three of them were recently
sold by auction and the rest will be sold in specialized or zero price auctions by the end of 1999.
Bidding in these specialized auctions has already begun for a number of these enterprises. At least
15 enterprises will be privatized by August 1, 1999. Given the demonstrated difficulty in valuing
state-shareholdings - which, to date, have sold for an average of 5% of their book value - the
Government would prefer to move directly to "zero price" auction, i.e., auctions in which there is
no minimum price. To alleviate public concerns - however misplaced - that State assets are
being sold for too little, auctions for shares in Tier II companies may begin with a minimum price
of 100% or 50% of nominal value. By end-December 1999, the 31 Tier II companies will have
been wholly privatized.
69.   The Government has also entered into 5-year management contracts, scheduled to run
until 2002 or 2003, for several major enterprises. These include Rustavi Metallurgical,
Kaspicement, Madneuli copper/gold mine, Phero, and Borjomi.
70.   The Government has adopted a Statement of Intent on Hospital Restructuring Program
(HRP) aiming at improving the efficiency and quality of health infrastructure and services. The
Government strategy envisages a significant reduction of publicly-owned facilities. The
cornerstone of the strategy is the sale at market prices of the real estate attached to excess
capacity in the sector, and use of the resources thereby generated to upgrade and equip the
remaining facilities, train the personnel and cover restructuring costs such as severance payments
to excess personnel. The action plan will be implemented in phases beginning in 1999.



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                          Issues                        SAC III Measures                    Timetable
A. Reduce Macroeconomic
Imbalances
Improve Revenue Mobilization    Hliring of a private company to take  Customs revenue collection highly  Launch the tender process, select best    Hiring process will be
over significant custom functions  constrained by weak control of custom    bidder and conclude negotiation  completed in June 1999
underway                          territory, porous borders, weak
enforcement capacity and poor control
of transit traffic
Administrative reorganization, of tax    Tax revenue collection highly  Establish a steering committee headed    March 1999
administration, donor-funded training   constrained by ineffective management  by the chairman STDG with
and computerization programs       structure, lack of strategic focus on  representation from technical assistance
underway                          large taxpayers, inaccurate registration,  providers to coordinate and monitor
weak enforcement capacity, poor job    technical assistance
definitions, and lack of efficiency
transparency and accountability    Introduce a new management structure   June 1999
Restructure STDG along functional
lines to separate assessment, collection
and audit
All tax administration employees to  May 1999
submit their declarations of income and
assets.
Strengthen the Large Taxpayers       March 1999
Inspectorate (LTI) to function as a full
serve tax office for the largest taxpayers
Expand the coverage of the LTI to cover  July 1999
50 percent of STDG revenues
Audit list of outstanding debts, and  April -June1 999
prioritize by size and likelihood of quick
recovery
Implement the program of work to     Continuous
expand the tax base and reduce tax
arrears
Identify and undertake actions against    Continuous
worst tax offenders and provide IDA
with periodic reports on progress with
1



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives           |        Current Status                          Issues                        SAC III Measures                    Timetable
dealing with delinquent taxpayers
Strengthen expenditure        Reorganization of Ministry of Finance  Inadequate organizational and   Institutional strengthening of the   May 1999
Management                    along functional lines underway.   management structure in the Ministry    Ministry of Finance. Issue agreed
Computer data-base accounting for all  of Finance (MOF). Lack of       regulations/instructions regarding (i)
revenue receipts and disbursement of   management accountability or    aims and objectives for the MOF; (ii)
expenditures set up in Treasury.   performance management within the    formation of a Policy/Strategy Group
Single Treasury bank account       Ministry. Poor coordination between    within the Ministry; (iii) nomination of
established in NBG to receive all  departments. Inequitable revenue    a senior person from the MOF to be
monies paid to the State. New      allocation between spending units.  responsible for institutional reform and
processes for agreeing monthly     Difficulties in reconciling revenue  for liaising with the CSB, (iv) joint
spending totals between Treasury and   collection and assessment. Revenue  work between the MOF and the CSB on
spending ministries and their sub-units  payments put to short term use by  reform issues; and (v) more effective
established. All invoices for goods  banks before being made available to    use of technical advice
and services cleared through Treasury   Treasury. Ad hoc development of new
so that they can be reconciled against  technology for financial management    Complete reorganization of MOF.  June 1999
appropriate expenditure plans. New  within the ministry and associated  Establish the new structure defining the
system of allocating revenue to    bodies (tax and customs)            responsibilities of each
expenditure plans based on a                                           departmentldivision
computerized matrix is being
introduced. Matrix operates on two                                     Establish job definitions for each post.   June 1999
parameters: Economic and functional                                    Implement new management
categories                                                             performance monitoring system setting
objectives and performance targets
Treasury and MOF staff to work       May 1999
together to establish lines of
accountability within spending
ministries/entities by identifying
accounting officers and calling for
reports with the objective of
establishing an effective expenditure
monitoring mechanism first for health
education and poverty benefit and then
for overall budget
Establish three coordinating groups  May 1999
(data management, expenditure
management, borrowing and debt)
2



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                   Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
Establishment and strengthening of the   June 1999
Personal Office of the Minister of
Finance. Issue orders on the basis of
agreed recommendations on (i) the
functions and structure of the Office; (ii)
broad functional division of
responsibilities of structural units and
staff of the Office; (iii) staffing levels
for the Office; (iv) implementing
regulations; and (v) transparent
procedures for recruitment of the staff
Complete staff recruitment and training   June 1999
for Personal Office of the Minister
Prepare a global strategy and action plan  September 1999
with defined benchmarks on use of new
technology for financial management to
ensure proper interface between
computer systems
Complete implementation of the action   December 2000
plan
Ensure the provision of basic  Economic categories include primary   Inadequate budgetary execution  Use the computerized matrix to     Continuous
social services              core allocations, Non-core allocations   accumulation of arrears to health and    implement the new system of allocating
and capital allocations. Functional  education spending units. Inadequate   revenues to expenditure plans
categories (representing spending  budgetary allocation and execution for
ministries and their sub-units) grouped  the poverty benefit         Include health, education and poverty  March 1999
in three priority zones. Matrix                                       benefit within the primary core
provides protocol operation to ensure                                 allocation category. Allocate 7.3
allocation to priority expenditure.                                   percent of the overall consolidated 1999
budget to the health sector and 13
percent to the education sector.
Allocate 14.3 million lari to the poverty
benefit
Apply the same ratios to health and  December 1999
education for the allocations in the 2000
Budget and ensure that the allocation to
the Poverty Benefit remains at least
constant in real terms.
3



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                     Timetable
Implement the special monitoring     Continuous
mechanism for social expenditures
Remain current in budgetary execution    1999-2000
of the health, education and poverty
benefit expenditures
B. Creating an Environment
Favorable to Private Sector
Development
Enhance the business          Law on licensing enacted in May    There are more than 300 licenses. The   Submit Law on Fees to parliament  September 1999
environment                   1999, to be followed by laws on fees,   regulatory burden of the existing  satisfactory to IDA
certification and accreditation    regime is a hindrance to private sector
Introduce a simplified and                                       development, promotes rent-seeking,    Promulgate a set of procedures    June 1999
transparent licensing regime                                     and reduces collection of budgetary  satisfactory to IDA to implement the
revenues                           Law on Licensing
Develop interim regulations for     June 1999
formerly licensed activities that are to
be made subject to non-licensing forms
of state regulation
Submission by ministries of draft   July 1999
licensing regulations to the Ministry of
Justice
Drafting of procedures for maintenance   July 1999
of the Licensing Registry
Conduct baseline survey to measure   September 1999
existing burden of licensing
Promulgate agreed requirements for   August 1999
form and contents of annual reports on
licensing to be furnished (a) by the
implementing ministries to the Ministry
of Justice and (b) by the Ministry of
Justice to Parliament and President
4



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                            Issues                       SAC III Measures                     Timetable
Adoption of annual reporting         August 1999
requirements through appropriate
Presidential Decree
Complete training of Ministry of Justice   September 1999
and other Ministry personnel in new
Law and regulations
Follow-up survey to measure impact of   December 1999 and every
licensing reform                     three months thereafter
Develop principles on which to base  June 1999
laws on Certification and Accreditation
to follow up Law on Licensing
Enactment of Laws on Fees            March 2ooo
Certification and Accreditation
Introduce a transparent regime to  New law on State Procurement   Ad-hoc and non transparent           Enactment of new law on State        December 1998
regulate state procurement,   adopted in December 1998            procurement practices                Procurement satisfactory to the IDA
control procurement
expenditures, and enable private                                                                      Issue implementing regulations        June 1999
companies to compete for                                                                              satisfactory to IDA
Govemment orders on a level
playing field                                                                                         Issue a Presidential Decree appointing    April 1999
the Director of the new Department of
State Procurement and approve
regulations of the Department
Complete competitive recruitment of  End-June 1999
Department's other staff
Complete staff training for Department   September 1999
of State Procurement
Develop and promulgate country-      September 1999
specific bidding documents
5



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                     Current Status                              Issues                         SAC III Measures                       Timetable
Identify and train staff of implementing    September-December 1999
ministries and regional/local procuring
agencies
Identify three largest procuring agencies   September 1999
at central and local levels, and for each,
ensure that at least one procurement is
done according to the new procedures
by December 1999
Establish and apply other benchmarks to December 1999
ministries with large procurement
budgets, to monitor the implementation
of the new procurement regime
Reduce cost of entry, especially    Law on Entrepreneurs stipulates  Current registration system is not    Eliminate the requirement to obtain a   June 1999
for small business             registration steps and procedures     conform to dispositions under the law    stamp/seal from the local police
Eliminate the regulation of the NBG    June 1999
prohibiting commercial banks to open
new account for new business without a
seal
Eliminate the active role of the       June 1999
Department of Statistics in the
registration process
C. Reform Land Ownership
Stimulate agricultural production  Two Laws govern the transfer of   The law "On Administration and        Start registration of privatized       November 1998
and the development of real     ownership rights over land were      Disposition of State-owned Non-       agricultural and enterprise land       (done)
estate and financial markets    enacted in 1998:                     agricultural Land" presents several
Law "On Declaration of Private       shortcomings and may give rise to     Amend the law "On Administration and   June 1999
Ownership of Non-agricultural Land    conflict of interests                Disposition of State-owned Non-
in Use of Physical and Private legal                                       agricultural Land" to promote
Person."; and law "On Administration                                       privatization over leasing, provide for
and Disposition of State-owned Non-                                        the organization of future privatization
agricultural land                                                          through a competitive process, and
enhance transparency by carefully
defining the privatization mechanism
.______. _____ ._____._____._ _______and_________delim iting___  _____________________the________       andodelimitingsthe  roles fofntheh relevant relevants_of_the_relevan
6



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                           Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
public bodies. Adopt implementing
regulations satisfactory to IDA
Issue regulations and operating      June 1999
procedures for agricultural land titling
registration system
D. Divestiture From
Productive Activities
Promoting Private Participation   Government strategies for      Inconsistency between Privatization  Amend Privatization Law to permit   December 1998
in Infrastructure             infrastructure privatization (e.g.,  Law and Decree on Strategic Plan for   privatization of:
energy, telecommunications, Poti port,  Privatization                  *   Telecommunications
railways) are under development                                        *   Postal services
*   Radio and television broadcasting
*   Railways
*   Water and sanitation systems
*   Airports
*   Gas distribution pipelines
*   Ports
*   Roads (with parallel state roads)
1 0-year maximum term for leases and    Amend relevant laws or regulations to    End-July 1999
required minimum annual payments of   eliminate maximum lease terms and
10% of remaining book value could  minimum payments
impede concession agreements for
infrastructure projects
Facilitating Overall Privatization
Program
To provide adequate           Efforts underway to improve        Need for better coordination between    Create a Permanent Oversight     September 1998
coordination and encouragement  coordination and public          line ministries and MINSPM          Committee - including MINSPM,
for potential investors       information/marketing                                                  MOF, President's office on regular basis
and line ministers as needed - to secure
cooperation and support from all official
bodies
7



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                           Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
Potential investors may need more time  Amend tender procedures for major  March 1999
to conduct due diligence and prepare    enterprises likely to be of interest to
investment proposals               foreign investors, allowing up to 4
months for potential investors to submit
proposals
Need for more extensive dissemination   Expand public information/marketing  December 1998
of information on privatization    efforts to include regular advertisements  (Continuous)
opportunities                      in national newspapers, press
conferences, television, internet, and
foreign and overseas embassies
Prepare privatization strategies with  (ongoing)
adequate treatment of regulatory and
privatization policies for all
infrastructure sub-sectors, before
initiating the transaction process
Hire financial and legal advisors to  end August 1999
assist in the privatization of
telecommunication enterprises
Submit to IDA non-objection a        end October 1999
satisfactory privatization strategy and
timetable and a regulatory framework
for the telecommunication sector
Submit to IDA non objection a        end September 1999
satisfactory development strategy and
regulatory framework for Poti Port
Recruit financial/legal advisors for the    end February 2000
implementation of the development
strategy for Poti Port including
structuring concessions arrangements
for port operations
Completing Privatization of
Medium/Large (Non-
Infrastructure) Enterprises
To complete the transfer of                                      Private sector is better able to derive  Complete "zero price" bidding for 244    March 1999
viable enterprises and productive                                and increase value from share       companies
8



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                           Issues                        SAC III Measures                     Timetable
assets to private-sector owners                                   ownership. Consistent over-estimation
and managers as rapidly,                                          of share values (e.g., 20x) results in  Announce and provide results to share    March 1999
transparently, and profitably as                                  repeated auctions/lenders. Auction  registrars
possible                                                          prices have averaged 5% of book value
Complete "zero price" bidding for an  June 30, 1999
additional 60 companies (32 are already
completed)
Announce and provide results to share    June 30, 1999
registrars
Privatization proceeds have been
diminished by the following:
*   Non-inclusion of land with
enterprise sales
*   Hidden liabilities              NINSPM and MOF will (a) limit an      Ongoing
enterprise's maximum liabilities to
those known at the time of the
privatization transaction, (b) assume
responsibility for hidden or excess
liabilities, and (c) act to control creation
of additional liabilities and asset
stripping at enterprises.
Inadequate capacity within MINSPM   MINSPM will create a Resolution Unit   May 5, 1999
to assess enterprise viability and  within MINSPM to sell assets and settle
liquidate non-viable enterprises through  liabilities for companies that are not
asset sales                         viable or for which there is no investor
interest.
Need for structured and purposeful  MINSPM commitment to a time-bound
progress on the privatization of Tier I    schedule for privatizing Tier I
companies                           companies:
*   Assess and categorize each as (a)    July 15, 1999
viable and suitable for tendering as
is, (b) partly viable, but with
9



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives           |        Current Status             t              Issues                       SAC III Measures                     Timetable
substantial excess assets; or (c)
non-viable
*   For viable/suitable companies,   July 30, 1999
issue tenders to pre-identified
potential investors and/or advertise
requests for proposals. The tender
package may provide only non-
binding guidelines (e.g., for
investment and employment
guarantees)
*   For partly viable/excess assets  August 30, 1999
companies, "carve out" excess
assets and associated liabilities and
assign these to the Resolution Unit.
Enterprise preparation will be
limited to this "carve out." The
Government will not engage in
operational restructuring or
additional investment
*   For non-viable companies, all    May 30, 1999
assets/liabilities will be assigned to
the Resolution Unit
*   Following "carve out" of         December 1, 1999
assets/liabilities, remaining viable
enterprises will be tendered
*   All offers will have been received.
Companies for which no offers are  December 7, 1999
received will be assigned for
auction
*   Conclude tender negotiations or
assign company shares for auction.  January 30, 2000
Potential investor from an
unsuccessful tender negotiation
would be precluded from
subsequent auction
*   At least 20 companies will have  February 28, 2000
been privatized by tender, auction,
or asset sale/liquidation
10



Annex 3
Georgia: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Policy Matrix
Objectives                    Current Status                           Issues                        SAC III Measures                     Timetable
Need for timely progress toward     MINSPM commitment to a time-bound
privatization for Tier II companies  program for privatizing Tier II
companies:
*   Special auctions announced       May 15, 1999
*   Bidding begins                   June 15, 1999
*   Completion of "zero price"       August 1, 1999
auctions for 15 companies
*   For successful companies, auction    August 15, 1999
results publicized and forwarded to
share registrars
*   Remaining companies have been    December 31, 1999
privatized by auction or asset
sale/liquidation
The Ministry will submit a quarterly  Continuous
implementation report detailing the
progress made on the program through
that date.
Improve the efficiency and    Hospital master Plan under          Overcapacity and lack of efficiency in   Submit a Statement of Intent     June 1999
quality of health infrastructure    preparation                   the health sector                    satisfactory to IDA describing the
and services by optimizing the                                                                         Hospital Restructuring Program for
use of existing resources                                                                              Tbilisi
Satisfactory implementation of the   Continuous
Hospital Restructuring Program
11



Annex 4
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.   Time taken to prepare:                   7 months
2.   Prepared by:                             Govermnent of Georgia with the
Assistance of IBRD/IDA staff
3.   Pre-appraisal mission:                   November 1998
4.   Negotiations:                            May 26, 1999
5.   Planned Board presentation               June 29, 1999
6.   Planned date of effectiveness:           August 31, 1999
7.   Expected program completion:             September 30, 2000



Annex 5
MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
Operations Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
GE-PE-50911      1999   REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA               INTEG. COASTAL MGT                        0.00        4.40        0.00               4.34          .12        0.00
GE-PE-56514     1999   GEORGIA                            TRNSPT MIN RESTRUCT.                      0.00        2.30        0.00               2.44         1.54        0.00
GE-PE-8416      1999   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              ENTERPRISE REHABIL.                       0.00       15.00        0.00              14.90         0.00        0.00
GE-PE-39929     1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                       0.00       20.00        0.00              17.30        5.39         0.00
GE-PE-50910     1998   GEORGIA                            MUNICIPAL DEV.                            0.00       20.90        0.00              18.61        7.74         0.00
GE-PE-51034     1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              SATAC II                                  0.00        5.00        0.00               1.50         1.38        0.00
GE-PE-55573     1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              CULTURAL HERITAGE                         0.00        4.49        0.00               4.23        1.22         0.00
GE-PE-35784      1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             POWER REHAB.                              0.00       52.30        0.00               2.70       -3.17         0.00
GE-PE-44830      1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             OIL INSTITUTION BLDG                      0.00        1.40        0.00                 .56         .23        0.00
GE-PE-8415       1997   GOVT. OF GEORGIA                  AGRICULTURE DEVELOP.                      0.00       15.00        0.00               6.73       -3.52         0.00
GE-PE-39892      1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             TRANSPORT                                 0.00       12.00        0.00                 .09         .88        0.00
GE-PE-8414       1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             HEALTH                                    0.00       14.00        0.00               9.46        8.19         0.00
GE-PE-8417       1995   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               MUNICIPAL INFRA. REH                      0.00       18.00        0.00               1.02         2.65        0.00
Total                                                                                               0.00      184.79        0.00              83.88       22.65         0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   97.44              213.56               311.00
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  184.79              209.90               394.69
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                83.88                  .01               83.89
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                   Page I



Georgia at a glance                                                                Annex 6
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle-
Georgia       Asia  income        Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         5.4       476      2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      840      2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.5      1,106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (V.)                                        -0.2        0.2       1.2     GNP                               Gross
Laborforce (%/6)                                        01           5       13primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    30
Urban population (% of total population)                 58        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73        69         69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                18        25         36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                     Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   ..         ..        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      1          ..       19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    86         92       111              Georgia
Male                                                                       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                                     113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              ..       ..        4.6       5.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    29.9         6.0       6.7                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..       ..       11.2      11.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             29.8       -1.8      -4.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                         2.3       1.9
Current account balance/GDP                               .       -9.1     -10.2      Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                     .        1.4       0.8     Savings
Total debt/GDP                                                    30.1      29.6
Total debt service/exports                                        15.3      13.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        .                23.9      19.1
Present value of debt/exports                                    213.4    208.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    .         .     105        10.9       7.6         -Georgia
GNP per capita                        ..        ..    12.7        12.8       8.1               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..        ..    17.8        18.4      12.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           , s
Agriculture                                     ..    26.8        33.4      3136
Industry                                        ..    37.0        25.1      23.4      75-_
Manufacturing                                 ..    27.8        18.8       17.5      0       _0
Services                                               36.2       41.5      45.0      -75                      s         97
Private consumption                             ..    57.4        92.7      95.2    -150 -
General government consumption                   .     12.8        9.1       9.0 0GDl                           iGDP
Imports of goods and services                                     18.9      22.7
1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..        3.0       3.5    45 -
Industry                                        -         .        2.0       2.0    30.
Manufacturing                                           ..       2.0        2.0    15S
Services                                                  ..      16.8      17.2
Private consumption                                      ..        2.2      15.4    15       92   93   94
General government consumption                           ..       40.0      10.9
Gross domestic investment                                 ..      57.0      90 9    -30 -
Imports of goods and services                   ..                 9.7      39.2             -     Exports   CI2Imports
Gross national product                         4.4    -16.5       12.7      11.2 2
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986        1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                20,000 -
Consumer prices                                     .         .       394         7.1    15,000 7
Implicit GDP deflator                             0.5       6.1       40.2        7.1     10,000
Government finance                                                                         5,000
(% of GoP, inc/udes current grants]                                                           a             r            _
Current revenue                                     ..       ..         8.1       9.9                92    93   94    95   9S   97
Current budget balance                              .         ..       -4.6      -3.5              -      GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..        ..        -5.8      -4.6                                                  1
TRADE
1976     1986        1996      1997        Export and import levels (USS millions)
(USmillions)
Total exports (fob)                                 ..                 463       559       1,DDD T
Black metal                                       ..        ..        80        101
Tea                                               ..        ..       .19         24       750. 
Manufactures                                      ..        ..       231        236
Total imports (cif)                                 ..       ..        768        947      soo t
Food                                              .         ..       213        154       2
Fuel and energy                                                      184        196
Capital goods                                     ..        ..       129        330         0
91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..                    2. Exports                          w Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           .._.._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$Smillions)                                  1976      1986        1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                       .11                          623        o
Imports of goods and services                       8. ..               67      1,192          91   92   93       tr
Resource balance                                              .       -356       -569     ->                          i
Net income                                          ..       ..        -62         34
Net current transfers                              ..        ..        141       188      -20.
Current account balance                            ..        ..       -418       -535      30
Financing items (net)                              ..         .        339       474
Changes in net reserves                             ..       ..         79         61      40 -
M.emo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..        ..        159        175
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                   ..        ..   1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986        1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..       ..       1,378     1,550
IBRD                                                                   0         0                         F 10
IDA                                              ..        ..        157       212                                  B 157
Total debt service                                  ..        .         49         53
IBRD                                                                   0         0                                             19
IDA                                                                    I          1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..        ..        141        84                                         D: 13
Official creditors                               ..        ..        186       192
Private creditors                                ..        ..                    0
Foreign direct investment                                             54       189             E.995
Portfolio equity                                  .         ..         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                      ..                   91       155      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                         76        64      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                                                   0         0      C - IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                                             76        64    1
Interest payments                                                      1         1
Net transfers                                    ..        ..         76        63
Development Economics



