Report No. PID7004
Project Name                     Georgia-Third Structural Adjustment (@)
Credit (SACIII)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Adjustment Operation
Project ID                       GEPE52153
Borrower                         Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Date this PID prepared           May 1999
Project Board Date               June 29, 1999
1.      Background. .    Georgia's performance has improved considerably under the
economic reform program launched in 1994. Underpinning the strong recovery of
the economy is the implementation of a vigorous stabilization program and a
wide array of structural reforms, particularly in agricultural land and
enterprise privatization, price and trade liberalization, banking sector
restructuring, social safety nets and the development of a market-oriented
legal and regulatory framework. While Georgia's progress with stabilization
and structural reforms is impressive, its macroeconomic position remains
fragile and the structural reform agenda quite substantial. The
sustainability of the growth process hinges upon the Government's ability to
maintain public confidence in its policies, further stabilization gains, and
further strides in the implementation of structural and institutional
reforms.
Project Scope and Objectives. The proposed SAC III will support the
Government's objectives of (i) completing the process of ownership change and
market liberalization; (ii) establishing a friendly environment for private
sector-led growth; (ii) strengthening the fiscal position while lessening the
adverse impact of stabilization on the poor by enhancing budgetary
provisions for basic health care, education and social protection. As a quick
disbursing operation, this credit will support the country's balance of
payments and budgetary requirement.
Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Association's Operational
directives on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
Benefits. The major benefits of the proposed credit include: (i) improving
economic efficiency;(ii) development of the private sector; (iii)
strengthening the fiscal situation (iv) enhanced budgetary resources for
basic health care and education; (v) increased availability of critical
imports financed by the credit.
Potential risks. Three potential risks threaten the implementation of the
program supported by this credit: (i) further deterioration of the political
and security environment could distract Government attention from
implementation of key reforms and worsen an already tight fiscal situation;



(ii); special interest groups benefiting from the status-quo could succeed in
delaying implementation of key fiscal or private sector development reforms;
(iii) more generally, there is a significant risk of policy reversal if anti-
market forces start prevailing due to increased regional and political
instability.
Contact Points:
Leila Zlaoui, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3100
Fax No.:         (202) 522-3607
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 11, 1999.
- 2 -



