Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3265 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3265 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1999, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated June 3, 1999 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three (3) tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions. Except as the 
Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) 
on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, 
is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations.” 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; and  
(b)
“Enlarged Investment Council” means the consultative body chaired by the 
President of Georgia, high ranking government officials, chairmen of Parliamentary 
Committees, representatives of the business community, and the Center for Enterprise 
Restructuring and Management Assistance. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-four million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
Page  3
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account: 
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 14.8 
million, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program;  
(B)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement 
have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 29.5 
million, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program;  
(B)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 2 to 
this 
Agreement have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program.
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice 
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, 
within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part 
thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
Page  4
such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2009 and ending May 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2019 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
         (b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace 
period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Page  5
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date, Termination 
Section 5.01 The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has in place a macroeconomic 
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Association. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70,  Ir. Abashidze St.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN 
Page  6
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA 
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia  
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
Page  7
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Section I: Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(i) 
of this Agreement 
1.
The Borrower has issued a decree on the overall reorganization of the Ministry 
of Finance of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower has: (a) demonstrated to the Association that the execution of the 
budget for year 1999 has complied with the key standards agreed upon with the 
Association; and (b) adopted a budget for year 2000 which provides for adequate 
allocations for health and education sectors and for poverty benefits, and is 
executing the budget for year 2000 in compliance with key standards agreed upon with 
the Association as of the date of the report to be submitted to the Association 
pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
3.
The Borrower has: (a) issued enabling regulations necessary for the 
implementation of the Licensing Law of May 1999; (b) submitted to the Association a 
satisfactory report summarizing the results of a regulatory impact assessment of the 
licensing regime; and (c) on the basis of said assessment, has prepared an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Association, to address the identified problems for 
effective implementation of the licensing reform.
4.
The Borrower has: (a) issued the implementation regulations relating to the 
Procurement Law of December 1998; (b) adopted an institutional strengthening plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out state procurement; and (c) submitted 
evidence satisfactory to the Association that procurement for state orders had been 
Page  8
carried out in substantive compliance with the Law on State Procurement of December 
1998 and other enabling regulations in at least two (2) governmental agencies, 
selected upon agreement with the Association. 
5.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a strategy for the development of 
the Poti Port and establishment of an adequate regulatory framework for the port 
sub-sector, satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower has: (a) entered into a contract with financial and legal advisors, 
acceptable to the Association, to assist in the privatization of telecommunication 
enterprises; (b) submitted to the Association a satisfactory privatization strategy, 
including a timetable, for the telecommunication sector; and (c) developed a 
regulatory framework for the telecommunication sector, acceptable to the Association. 
7.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a report demonstrating 
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Borrower’s non-infrastructure 
privatization program in accordance with the timetable of such program.
8.
The Borrower has: (a) prepared a report summarizing the results of the last 
bi-annual review of the quality of the business environment carried out by the 
Enlarged Investment Council and has prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, to address the problems identified in such report; and (b) established a 
framework for registration procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
9.
The Borrower has enacted an amendment to the Law on the Administration and 
disposition of State-owned Non-agricultural Land of November 1998 and issued its 
implementation regulations, satisfactory to the Association. 
10.
The Borrower is current with implementation of the hospital restructuring 
program and its timetable, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association.
Section II: Actions Referred to in Section 2.02(d)(ii)(B) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has: (a) demonstrated to the Association that the execution of the 
budget for year 2000 has complied with the key standards agreed upon with the 
Association; and (b) furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that no 
budgetary arrears have been accumulated in the health and education sectors, and with 
respect to the poverty benefits, as of the date of the report to be submitted to the 
Association pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
2.
The Borrower has: (a) enacted new legislation governing fees, certification 
procedures, and accreditation procedures, and issued enabling regulations for the 
implementation of said legislation; (b) submitted to the Association a report on the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the licensing reform, including the 
implementation of the measures provided in the action plan referred to in paragraph 
3(c) of Section I of this Schedule; and (c) has identified further measures to ensure 
effective implementation of the licensing reform.
3.
The Borrower has: (a) carried out a review of the implementation of the Law on 
State Procurement of December 1998; (b) based on this review, has introduced 
amendments, if found necessary, to the Law on State Procurement and enabling 
regulations, acceptable to the Association; (c) based on the review referred to in (a) 
hereinabove, prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to address 
identified problems and to ensure effective implementation of the public procurement 
reform; and (d) submitted evidence satisfactory to the Association that procurement 
for state orders had been carried out in substantive compliance with the Law on State 
Procurement and enabling regulations by the local governments. 
4.
The Borrower has prepared a report summarizing the results of the last bi-annual 
review of the quality of the business environment carried out by the Enlarged 
Investment Council, including the implementation of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph 8 of Section I of this Schedule; and has prepared an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, to address the problems identified in such report.
5.
The Borrower has entered into a contract with financial and legal advisors, 
acceptable to the Association, to assist with the implementation of the development 
strategy for the Poti Port, including structuring concessions arrangements for certain 
Page  9
Poti Port operations. 
6.
The Borrower has approved and issued offering memoranda for the Georgia 
Telecommunications and for the Georgia Electro Communications.  
7.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a second report demonstrating 
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Borrower’s non-infrastructure 
privatization program in accordance with the timetable of such program.
8.
The Borrower has: (a) satisfactorily implemented the first phase of the hospital 
restructuring program agreed upon with the Association; and (b) prepared an action 
plan, including a timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for the implementation 
of the second phase of said plan.
