                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 25545

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-32650; TF-50182)

                                          ON

                            LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT NO. 32650-GE

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60 MILLION

                                          TO

                                       GEORGIA

                                        FOR A

                        THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                      May 27, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective AS OF APRIL 23, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = LARI
                           GEL 2.1250000 = US$ 1.00
                                  US$ 1.00 = GEL 2.1250000
                           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                    Metric System
                                   FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 to     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
ESAF     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
PD        Program Document
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Fund
PSD       Private Sector Development
SAC3      Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SDLM      State Department of Land Management
SRS       Structural Reform Support Project
STDG      State Tax Department of Georgia
TA        Technical Assistance
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WTO       World Trade Organization



                           Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn
               Country Manager/Director:         Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
                 Sector Manager/Director:        Samuel Otoo
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Rocio Castro

                                          GEORGIA
                                             SAC 3


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    2
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                 THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA

                        THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                         Credit No. 3265-GE


                                                 Preface

The Third Structural Adjustment Credit to the Republic of Georgia (SAC3) in the amount of SDR44.30
million (US$60 million equivalent) was the fourth credit of IDA support to the Government of Georgia's
economic reform program (the first was the Rehabilitation Credit, followed by SAC1 and SAC2). SAC3
was a three-tranche operation and was approved by the Board on June 29, 1999 and became effective on
August 2, 1999. The first tranche of SDR14.77 million (approximately US$20 million equivalent) was
disbursed the day of effectiveness. The second tranche of SDR14.77 million (approximately US$20
million equivalent) was disbursed on December 26, 2001. The third tranche, also SDR14.77 million
(approximately US$20 million equivalent), was disbursed on October 17, 2002. The credit was originally
scheduled to close on December 31, 2000, but was extended three times.        The first extension was to
September 30, 2001, the second to June 30, 2002 and the third to October 30, 2002.

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Richard Carroll based on interviews with
the Borrower and Bank staff and materials from the project file. Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo was the
Country Director and Mr. Samuel Otoo was the Sector Manager for Georgia. Mr. Tevfik Yaprak(
Country Manager at the Resident Mission) and Ms. Rocio Castro (Task Manager) and Ms. Laila Zlaoui
(first task manager) provided comments. Messrs. Pervaiz Rashid also reviewed the report. Miss Dolly
Teju assisted in preparing the Annexes and the production of the Report.

Project ID: P052153                                                      Project Name: SAC 3
Team Leader: Rocio Castro                                                TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 28, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SAC 3                                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-32650; TF-50182
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); General industry and
                            trade sector (30%); Health (15%); Housing finance and real estate
                            markets (10%); Other social services (5%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Land management (S);
                            Legal institutions for a market economy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/29/1998                                        Effective: 06/30/2003;             08/02/2003; 04/01/1999
                                                                               04/01/1999
   Appraisal:    04/01/1999                                            MTR: 11/01/2003                11/01/2003
    Approval:    06/29/1999                                         Closing: 12/31/2003;              10/30/2003, 04/01/2002
                                                                               04/01/2000

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:           D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                                 Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Cheryl W. Gray                                      M. Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader at ICR:        Rocio Castro                                        Leila Zlaoui
ICR Primary Author:        Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         Background to Project Launch


Georgia has a population of 5.4 million and is bordered by Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Turkey and the
Black Sea. After the break up of the Soviet Union and Georgian independence, Georgia's economic output
fell 70 percent during 1990-95. Industrial capacity utilization fell to 20 percent of Soviet era levels.
External debt and arrears accumulated rapidly and macroeconomic mismanagement led to high fiscal
deficits and hyperinflation. Internal tensions eased following the cease fires with South Ossetia in 1992 and
Abkhazia in 1994, which allowed the Government to begin its reform program. Georgia entered the
transition process with a number of disadvantages, including (i) a large, energy intensive and highly
inefficient enterprise sector; (ii) an energy sector damaged by civil war, financial collapse and improper
operation; and (iii) a poorly maintained and under invested road and port infrastructure.

The Russian Crisis in 1998 hurt the Georgian economy and growth slowed after the strong rebound in the
mid-1990s. By the time of the launch of the third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC3) in August 1999,
inflation had subsided to reasonable levels and growth was slow but positive.                           However, the
macroeconomic performance had not allowed the completion of the third annual Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) with the IMF and a shadow program was put in place until the end of June
1999. Fiscal performance remained weak with difficulty in tax collection and budgets not conforming to
      1/


resource constraints. As a result, the Government continued to accumulate expenditure arrears (through
mid-2000). In addition, the business climate was unfavorable and there was still much to be done in terms
of privatization of large enterprises.

         Objectives

SAC3 was effective on August 2, 1999 and supported the Government's reform program to reduce
macroeconomic imbalances, and to provide an adequate incentive structure for private sector development.
SAC3 included measures to (i) strengthen fiscal performance while lessening the adverse impact of
stabilization on the poor by ensuring budgetary provisions for basic health education and social protection;
(ii) improve legislation and regulatory framework favorable to private sector growth; and (iii) complete the
process of ownership change and market liberalization.

This objective was in line with the Country Assistant Strategy (CAS) for FY1998-2000, whose priorities
were (i) stabilization support, because of weak public finances; (ii) strengthening and diversifying the
sources of growth by removing obstacles to private sector development; (iii) institutional and policy
reforms to protect Georgia's environmental and natural resources; and (iv) addressing poverty issues within
the context of a recovering economy. These objectives were appropriate given the conditions Georgia faced
at the time of the launch of SAC3. Strengthening fiscal performance was the first order of business
because the budget was in disarray and social expenditures needed to be preserved protect the poor and the
human capital base which was declining. The basic framework for private sector development had to be
established in order to begin to achieve sustained growth.

1/ A new three-year arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) was approved in January 2001.

3.2 Revised Objective:



                                                          - 2 -

The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the Government's reform program which
aims to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and improve the conditions for private sector development.
The program includes measures to: (i) strengthen fiscal performance while lessening the adverse impact
of stabilization on the poor by ensuring budgetary provisions for basic health care, education and social
protection; (ii) improve legislation and regulatory framework favorable to private sector growth; and (iii)
complete the process of ownership change and market liberalization.

3.3 Original Components:
The components of SAC3 aligned well with the main objectives of the Bank Group's CAS for
FY1998-2000. The components of SAC3 were:

1.       Reduce Macroeconomic Imbalances

1.1      Strengthen revenue administration
1.2      Strengthen expenditure management
1.3      Ensure provision of basic social services

2.       Improve Environment for Private Sector Development

2.1      Simpler and more transparent licensing
2.2      More transparent government procurement
2.3      Reduce cost of entry for businesses

3.       Reform Land Ownership

4.       Divestiture from Productive Activities

4.1      Private sector participation in infrastructure
4.2      Complete privatization of medium and large enterprises
4.3      Hospital restructuring

These components were responsive to the main problems facing the Georgian economy at the time and
Borrower input to the design was significant. There were, however, deficiencies that are noted in the
Quality at Entry section below.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
POLICY-BASED LENDING/BUDGET SUPPORT;                     $20,000,000.00;   S
FISCAL PERFORMANCE;             $20,000,000.00;     S
REGULATORY REFORMS;               $20,000,000.00;     S
PRIVATIZATION AND MARKET LIBERALIZATION;                    $20,000,000.00; S


3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR ­ Marginally Satisfactory.          Quality at entry might be more accurately rated as "moderately
satisfactory," a rating that is not available for the ICR. Although this program design was consistent with
the CAS, there were too many conditions, many of which were weak. The design was too broad, especially
given the original timeframe of 16 months, and, by the third tranche, some conditions did not represent a
significant continuation of the program. For example, Privatization and Certification really required a



                                                       - 3 -

longer timeframe to complete in a meaningful way, and so, the design of SAC3 could have been more
selective. There is also a question whether the third tranche reduced flexibility and whether the conditions
on which they were based resulted in a significant development outcome. The design did have borrower
input, and there was commitment at the Government level, but the commitment was not as strong at the
level of the implementing agencies.        A rating of "unsatisfactory," however, is not appropriate here,
because, aAs stated, the SAC3 objectives and components were fully consistent with the CAS, and tThe
design of SAC3 proved challenging but doable for the Government as evidenced by completion of all
tranche conditions, although with the help of three extensions totaling 22 months. Particularly important to
the quality at entry was the Structural Reform Support project (SRS) that accompanied SAC3. The SRS
was designed to provide technical assistance to support the implementation of key areas of SAC3, including
public sector reform and management, private sector development, financial sector strengthening, social
sustainability and hospital restructuring. SRS impact in supporting SAC3 was limited because it was
aimed at supporting discrete activities rather than overall capacity building.

The Program Document (PD) correctly identified three potential risks: (i) further deterioration of the
political and security environment which would divert the Government's attention from the reform
program; (ii) special interest groups who benefit from the status quo, thus delaying implementation of key
fiscal and PSD reforms; and (iii) policy reversals if anti-market forces rise up due to increased regional and
political instability. According to the PD, SAC3 would address some of the risks by easing the fiscal
adjustment through budgetary support (of US$60 million equivalent to around 105 percent of the annual
budget) and help protect basic social expenditures as public finances were strengthened. The component on
improving the business climate would strengthen the capacity of the Georgian economy to respond to the
crisis and improve the country's image abroad among investors.

QAG - Not Applicable.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives is rated marginally satisfactory.               While SAC3 conditions were
implemented, they did not have the desired impacts because of the poor governance environment. For this
reason, "moderately satisfactory" would be more a accurate rating for this operation, but it is not available
to the ICR as an official rating. An "unsatisfactory" rating would not be appropriate in the light of
progress made under the operation. SAC3 had five important development impacts, but much of these
impacts wwere asere were reduced, mainly because of weak governance. These impacts are organized
according to the project development objective to which they pertain.

Objective 1: Strengthen fiscal performance while lessening the adverse impact of stabilization on the
poor by ensuring budgetary provisions for basic health education and social protection (Satisfactory)

After a period of poor performance from 1999 until mid 2000, SAC3 succeeded in enhancing execution of
the social sector (health and education) budget and poverty benefits giving greater credibility to the budget
and yielding a positive social impact. Improving Strengtheningthe budget's execution, and reversing the
accumulation of wages and pensions arrears credibility had a significant positive poverty reduction affect
as about half of all the nation's employment is in the public sector. The weakness was that the issue of
efficiency and equity of spending was not addressed. Still, it was considered a step forward just to preserve
spending levels for the social se sectors, which ranked among the lowest in the CIS region.

Objective 2: Improve legislation and regulatory framework favorable to private sector growth



                                                     - 4 -

(Satisfactory)

The second impact was in improving the government procurement process. A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) completed in June 2000 found that only 12 percent of the value of all
procurement was competitively bid. SAC3 supported new rules to increase the level of competitively bid
procurement and an increasing share of government contracts were competitively bid. This impact was
limited, however, by the fact that a very small share of the government budget is contracted out. After
salaries are paid and debt serviced, only a small portion of the budget is available for possible competitive
procurement.

The thirdimpact impact was through a new law to improve licensing procedures. The 1999 new licensing
law simplified procedures and decreased the number of activities subject to licensing from 300 to 12. This
improvement lowered the administrative cost of market entry for businesses, as evidenced by various
enterprise surveys, but enforcement will be the true test of impact did not prevent the emergence of
licensing requirements outside the scope of the law. To address this issue, the law was further revised in
May 2002, but proper enforcement will be the true test of impact. In addition, Bbecause the new licensing
law is a framework law, additional laws must be passed in order to govern various areas that are licensed.
In addition, although the direct regulatory burden may have been reduced, business surveys suggest that
corruption has increased.

Objective 3: Complete the process of ownership change and market liberalization (Satisfactory)

The fourth fifth major impact was the reform of land ownership, specifically through an amendment of a
law to allow privatization of non-agricultural, state-owned land. The privatization of urban land had a
significant impact, because previously, land was grossly underutilized. In many cases, valuable land was
invested on defunct factories. Owners of the factories, who did not own the land, were reluctant to abandon
the factories, in the event that they might acquire the land. An IFC Financial Investment Advisory Services
(FIAS) study found that as a result of selling land to the enterprise owners on which the facilities were
located, there has been an increase in investment in improving urban land, as well as the development of a
secondary market for land, mainly in Tibilisi. This land reform is a crucial step for rejuvenation and
modernization of cities in Georgia.

The implementation of first phase of the hospital restructuring plan showed first signs of the
improving technical efficiency of public health care delivery in restructured facilities, including
staff reduction by 29 percent, along with bed capacity reduction of 49 percent, increased
admissions of 27 percent and increased bed turn-over by 52 percent. Salaries were increased by
264 percent bringing them more in line with the cost of living. However, the impact may be
limited, (at least temporarily), because a court decision has rescinded the second phase of
restructuring. This court decision was in January 2003 and has not yet been overturned. In
addition, the privatization of physical assets has been very slow in this sector.

The outcome of the strategic privatizations from the divestiture from productive activities component was
negligible because of the poor investment climate. Annex 1 Table A provides more details of outcomes in
the form of the policy matrix.

                                  TABLE 1: Macroeconomic Indicators 1997-2002

                   Indicator                     1997     1998    1999    2000     2001     2002
                                                                                            Est.



                                                      - 5 -

 Real GDP Growth-percent                             10.6     2.9     3.0    1.9   4.7     5.4
CPI-percent (end of period)                           7.0     3.6     19.1   4.0   4.7     5.6
Total Revenues (% of GDP)                            14.4     15.6    15.4  15.3   16.3    16.2
Total Expenditures (% of GDP)                        21.2     21.8    22.1  19.4   18.3    18.2
Government Budget Deficit (% of GDP)                 -6.8     -6.1    -6.7   -4.1  -2.0    -2.0
Official Exch. Rate-Laris /US$ (e.o.p.)              1.297    1.39    2.02  1.98   2.07    2.20
 Current Acct. Balance (% of GDP)                    -10.5   -10.7    -8.5   -5.3  -5.6    -6.9

 Gross Int'l Reserves (US$mn)                        173      118     132    109   161     198
   In months of imports                               1.5     1.0     1.2    1.0   1.4     1.8
Source: World Bank Public Expenditure Review (November 2002) and IMF.


                                  TABLE 2: Ratings from Project Status Reports
Category             Dec.         June       Dec.       June      Nov.    June    Oct.
                     1999         2000       2000       2001      2001    2002    2002
PDO                      S           S             S       S         S       S       S
Implementation           S           S             S       S         S       U       S
Policy        Based      S           S             U       U         S       S       S
Lending/Budget
Support
Fiscal Performance                                                   S       S       S
Regulatory                                                           S       S       S
Privat.  &    Mkt                                                    S       S       S
Liberalization
Source: Project Status Reports from the project file


                           TABLE 3: Extensions of Closing Date for Georgia SAC3
            Extension                                From                          To
                1.                                  December 31, 2000            September 30, 2001
                 2.                                  September 30, 2001               June 30, 2002
                3.                                       June 30, 2002             October 30, 2002

                                          TABLE 4: Tranche Release Dates
     Tranche                      Planned                       Actual              Lag in Months
         1.                 August 31, 1999                 August 2, 1999                -1
          2.                 March 31, 2000               December 26, 2001              +21
         3.               September 30, 2000               October 17, 2002              +25


4.2 Outputs by components:
Reduce Macroeconomic Imbalances (Satisfactory)

As shown in Table 1, fiscal and external imbalances were substantially narrowed during the 1999-2002
period. The fiscal deficit was reduced from 6.7 percent of GDP to 2.0 percent (on an commitment basis),
reflecting increased revenue collection, while the accumulation of domestic expenditure arrears was
virtually halted. The current account deficit was also reduced from 8.5 percent of GDP to 6.9 percent and
gross international reserves were increased to 1.8 months of imports compared to 1.2 months in 1999.

Strengthen revenue administration (Marginally sSatisfactory). The main An important output was a
reorganization decree for the State Tax Department of Georgia (STDG) and job descriptions and a



                                                         - 6 -

performance monitoring system. The broader tax reform program contained measures to implement the
management restructuring as well as a variety of revenue enhancing measures including the establishment
of a Large Taxpayer Unit. This condition was rather weak by itself given that it was not followed by
further conditions in subsequent tranches. However, this partly compensated because though the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) provided substantial technical assistance TAin this
area.The broader non-core program contained measures This component would be more accurately rated
as "marginally satisfactory."

Strengthen expenditure management and ensure provision of basic social services (Satisfactory). The
main output was to execute the budget close to plan and to aim to preserve spending levels on health and
education at 7.3 percent and 13.0 percent of the total budget, respectively. There had been poor fiscal
performance in 1999 until mid-2000, but performance improved thereafter under a new Minister of
Finance. The Government reached 5.3 percent and 11.4 percent, respectively for 2000, and 12.3 percent
and 7.0 percent, respectively for 2001, which was judged to be close enough for meeting the condition for
tranche release. In 2002, the budgeted amounts were 13.1 and 7.6 percent, respectively, which includes a
30 percent increase in teachers' salaries. In addition, the Government was current for payments of poverty
benefits 2001 and 2002 and had cleared all arrears to the poverty benefit for 1999 and 2000, which was
considered compliant with a core condition of third tranche release.
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) was also reorganized including a 10 percent downsizing of staff. While
this reorganization rationalized staff size, there was only a modest increase in implementation capacity.
The main progress was in treasury reform, which included commitment controls.
The improved expenditure management still has yet to addressed efficiency and equity of expenditures
within the social sector budgets.

Improve Environment for Private Sector Development (Marginally Satisfactory)

Simpler and more transparent licensing ((Marginally sSatisfactory). The new licensing law was passed
in 1999 and implementing regulations were established. Also, as a core condition, the Government was
required to conduct surveys to ensure that the licensing burden was in fact reduced. The impact of
licensing reform was initially undermined because of the proliferation of new requirements issued at the
local level and outside the scope of the law, including permits at the local level. The 1999 licensing Law
was later overhauled to repeal new licenses requirements. This revised licensing law was approved by
Parliament in May 2002. As stated, this law is more of a framework law and requires additional laws for
licensing different types of businesses. Because of the remaining work to be done for this activity,
"moderately satisfactory" would be a more accurate assessment of the component's outputs.

More transparent government procurement (Satisfactory). The Government enacted a procurement
law (April 2001) and adopted implementing regulations. As part of the condition for second tranche
release, the Government also adopted an institutional strengthening plan to conduct public procurement.
As a result the number of open tenders increased steadily from 1999 to 2002, although sole sourcing
increased in the months that followed the May 2002 earthquake. This was done, however, within the
provisions of the law. Specifically, the Ministries of Health, the State Department of Land Management,
and the Tbilisi municipality showed satisfactory compliance with the new state procurement rules.

Reduce cost of doing businesses (Satisfactory). Business entry cost was also reduced by eliminating the
need for businesses to obtain stamps/seals from the police and other administrative entities. The
Government also enacted laws on Fees, along with the implementing regulations, and Accreditation laws
were put in place for a number of professions. The law on Certification was particularly challenging and
required extensive technical assistance. Instead of changing the 1996 law as originally envisioned, the


                                                     - 7 -

Bank agreed with the Government to develop a strategy for comprehensive reform of the legislative
framework on technical regulations to bring them in compliance with the WTO and EU. The system
provides for voluntary certification by a third party. In this context, the Government substantially reduced
the list of goods and services subject to mandatory certification (limited to those that may pose a risk to
human health).

The Government also adopted a new law on Control of Entrepreneurial Activities and an action plan to
improve the business climate, including revising the tax code to simplify taxes for small businesses, in
collaboration with FIAS. The Enlarged Investment Council, which includes private sector representatives,
was also established which conducts periodic reviews of the business environment.

Reform Land Ownership (Highly Satisfactory)

Land registration was carried out for 3,000 enterprises and an amended law was enacted on the
Administration and Disposition of state-owned non-agricultural land. The amended law established a legal
framework for the privatization of urban land and greatly expanded the property rights under Government
leases. The law also enhanced transparency by defining and limiting the role of relevant public agencies
and local self-governments and the State Department of Land Management (SDLM).                 Implementing
regulations were also issued for selling urban land and a standard lease form was produced. This activity
was difficult to carry out, because under the original law on privatization of urban land, excessive authority
was placed with the SDLM, which created conflicts of interest. The SDLM had not only the right to
register ownership (its only appropriate role), but also was involved in selection of land for disposition,
organization of auction or tender, negotiation of land disposition contracts and management of lease
relationships (including termination at its own discretion). The Bank objected to this and worked with the
Government to essentially draft a new law and accompanying implementing regulations (second tranche
condition) that would allow meaningful privatization.        The SRS provided valuable support for legal
assistance in developing the new law.

Divestiture from Productive Activities (Marginally Satisfactory)

Private participation in infrastructure (Marginally satisfactory). Private enterprises were allowed to
participate in infrastructure such as telecommunications and the Poti-Port. The strategy and regulatory
framework for the restructuring of the Poti-Port and the telecommunications sector were developed. The
process to concession two berths at the port has begun, but has been slowed by a legal dispute over
ownership of one of the berths. An international tender was issued for the sale of shares in Georgia
Telecommunications and Georgia Electro Communications. However no formal application was received
by the deadline. In light of the unfavorable investment climate, the Government is considering re-launching
the tender at a later date or putting the companies under private management contracts.

Completion of privatization of medium and large enterprises (Marginally satisfactory). The
SAC3-supported program required completion of zero-price bidding (auctions) for 244 companies. Most
non-infrastructure companies scheduled for privatization have been sold to local investors or are under
liquidation/bankruptcy procedures. Sixteen of 29 Tier-1 industrial enterprises were sold to private interests
(mostly through management buy-outs) and 8 were placed in liquidation/bankruptcy procedures. Total
sales were low at only US$1.5 million, owing partly to the debts assumed by the purchasers. In addition,
twenty six out of 29 Tier-2 have been sold or are under liquidation/bankruptcy procedures.

Hospital restructuring (Satisfactory). The program also supported restructuring of the hospital



                                                     - 8 -

sector and implementation of the first phase. The Hospital Restructuring process, although
processing slowly in the capital, has been implemented in a few locations in Tbilisi. As a result of
restructuring process 12 hospitals have been closed, bed capacity was reduced by 989 beds, 886
medical personnel were laid off and severance packages paid by the Hospital Restructuring Fund
from the privatization proceeds. Four facilities were slated for privatization, but none has
attracted interest. Additional auctions are planned. The second phase of hospital restructuring
has been approved. Despite the court challenge mentioned above, the restructuring process has
moved beyond Tbilisi to several regions and this has largely been at the request of the hospitals
which see an advantage in terms of financing and consolidation of duplicate services.

Annex 1 Table B summarizes the outputs of SAC3by components.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. As a result of SAC3, the Government made strides in making the budget process a more credible
exercise by adhering more closely to targets, in particular, for social expenditures. However, social sector
fiscal management measures have not been internalized, and do not address efficiency and equity aspects,
in part, due to the lack of a strategic phase in the budget preparation process. The Georgian government
did gain a greater appreciation of the requirements of a favorable business climate. This is exemplified in
efforts to simplify licensing and in the establishment of the Enlarged Investment council. The procurement
and hospital measures will, to some extent, allow for greater benefits from limited financial resources. The
public procurement sub-component, which involved training and reorganization of the State Procurement
Agency, was important because competitive bidding as a force for cost control was introduced. The impact
has been minor thus far because only a small percentage of the Government budget is actually contracted
out. The hospital restructuring sub-component was effective, and is fully owned by the Ministry of Health,
but its institutional development impact may suffer as a result of the court challenge to its second phase.
Certification has not yet had a significant impact, because supporting legislation is not in place; it is
actually a longer term process than could be carried through by a single SAC, taking several years to be
effective. Limited institutional capacity was achieved at the Ministry of State Property Management. The
SRS project has to some extent reinforced the institutional development impact and is ongoing at the time
of this ICR.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A number of external factors worked to delayagainst the impact of the SAC3 supported program. The
Russian crisis of 1998, described in the introduction, had adverse effects that lingered into the earlier part
of the program, making fiscal targets more difficult to attain. Second, the presidential elections of 2000
created uncertainties in the economy. The issues surrounding these elections led to a delay in establishing a
new IMF program, which was caused by fiscal slippages. Third, there were rising tensions over border
security issues in 2002. These factors no doubt reduced the investor interest in some of the larger
enterprises that had been slated for privatization, forcing a delay in most cases. In addition, the overall



                                                     - 9 -

downturn in the world economy since 2001, also affected privatization prospects for strategic concerns, for
example in the telecommunications sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government has always supported the program, and has been willing to intervene where implementing
agencies caused snags in implementation. For example, when government agencies reintroduced additional
licensing procedures that, for a time, undermined the benefits of licensing simplification, the Government
nullified the new requirements and introduced a revised law on licensing. The Government also intervened
when the State Department for Land Management attempted to maintain complete control of land sales and
leasing. However, the Government has not been able (or willing) to resolve the land dispute over one of the
berths at Poti port, already spanning over two years, which continues to delay the concession of important
port services.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The continuity of senior counterparts at the MOF (three changes of minister), Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry (MOETI), Ministry of Justice (MOJ) and the Ministry of State Property Management
(MOSPM) could have been much better. Turnover caused significant disruption to implementation. It was
also unfortunate that a key reform champion at the MOF was reassigned during an early phase of SAC3.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original credit amount was SDR44.3 million (US$60 million equivalent). The entire credit
amount was disbursed in three tranches. The credit was made on standard IDA terms with a term of 35
years, a 10-year grace period, and a variable IDA service charge of 0 to 50 basis points on the undisbursed
balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA. The borrower was the Government of Georgia.
The total credit amount of approximately US$60 million provided significant budgetary support roughly
equal to 10 percent of the annual consolidated budget (though the credit disbursed over three years). This
assistance was especially helpful in light of the arrears that were accumulating prior to effectiveness of the
credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the SAC3 supported program is rated unlikely. This rating may be harsher than
reality, and in fact, a rating of "uncertain" would be more accurate, though not available for ICR ratings.
Still, a "likely" rating is not proposed for reasons that follow. The Government has satisfactorily continued
its reform program and carried out the all core conditions, but serious governance problems threaten the
sustainability of outcomes. In addition, rising domestic discontent and border issues create concerns of
political instability. Along with the general weakness of institutions, by Bank standards, Georgia is
considered a challenging country in which to implement a reform program because of high levels of
corruption. Weak governance is also seen in the lack of cohesion between the Executive and Legislative
branches. The situation is likely to worsen in the coming two years as Georgia enters a new political cycle
starting with Parliamentary elections in October 2003 and Presidential elections in April 2005. Still, the
three years of SAC3 implementation have witnessed some progress in improving the climate for business,
respecting budget plans, and privatizing the country's largest entities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As stated by the Public Expenditure Review (PER-November 2002), what matters most in public
expenditure management is not the level, but the efficient management of scarce public expenditures. To
address the efficiency concerns, Georgia will need to lengthen its planning/budgeting time horizon, increase
predictability, the information base, and improve incentives for budget management. On the revenue side,



                                                      - 10 -

the Government needs to focus more on the way revenues are mobilized than on increasing the amount
mobilized. It is important to PSD that revenue mobilization be predictable, transparent and sustainable.
As further evidence of overall weakness of public expenditure management, the PER points out that there is
little link between the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), currently under preparation, and the
budget process.

The fact that privatization of key enterprises has not been carried out is also a concern for sustainability,
because it is not only the unfavorable climate for international investment in such sectors as
telecommunications, but also Georgia's high level of political instability. The future of Bank adjustment
operations is also by no means clear. Although it is for the Government and the Bank to come to agreement
on a new program and a possible SAC4, the lack of an immediate follow-on program may lead to at least a
partial loss of what has been achieved. The Bank and the Government will have to decide whether it would
be advisable to wait until the conclusion of at least the October 2003 Parliamentary elections before a
follow-on operation is prepared. The Presidential election cycle will begin shortly thereafter with the
election to be held in April 2005. In any case, the most important development for continued, sustainable
reform, and a recommended focus for a follow-on SAC would will be improved governance.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank worked with the Government to support a program aimed at privatization,
preserving social expenditures and decreasing the cost of business entry and operation. These were
appropriate priorities that were emphasized in the CAS. The Bank did underestimate the time it would take
to carry out the program. The Bank envisioned a 16-month program (effectiveness to close), but, after
three extensions, the program lasted nearly two and one half times as long, or 39 months. The extensions
were in part due to delays in privatization, for which the climate was not favorable, and in certain reforms
(such as certification, accreditation reforms), which were too complex for the Georgians to undertake in
such a short time. In this respect, the Bank's design input was unrealistic. Arguments have also been
raised that the Bank should have concentrated more resources on capacity building in expenditure
management and tax administration. However, there was already a large USAID project geared to those
activities and a substantial World Bank TA (the SRS), both of which faced constraints in reaching their
goals, partly because of weak governance. Given some of the difficulties posed by SAC3 design and
timeframe for implementation, "moderately satisfactory" would be more accurate in assessing Bank
performance at lending.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The extensions were necessary to fulfill tranche conditions, and it was better to implement
the conditions than to terminate. For each extension, the Bank did require progress milestones that
demonstrated the Government's commitment to carry out the remainder of the program. There was a
period of time (January to June 2001) when Bank performance was less than satisfactory because of
frequent changes of task manager (three) and absence of a country economist for several months. The
Bank has had a single task manager since June 2001, allowing more regular supervision of the credit.
Bank supervision has since been This task manager has shown fflexibleility working with the Government
on its in Georgia's compliance rating particularly by taking into account the extremely difficult
environment for privatization. In this area the Bank, was able to stop plans to establish a joint venture for
a coal mine, which would have led to increased energy costs. On certification, the Bank recognized the
need to have a longer time frame and further technical assistance to establish a system of standards
consistent with WTO, and instead focused on narrowing the scope for mandatory certification and stopped
attempts by the Standards Agency to unduly increased its role through legislative changes. The Bank also


                                                    - 11 -

worked well in helping the Government overcome an effort by SDLM to wield too much power in the land
market.

The Bank coordinatedworked well with the IMF which approved a three-year Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) in January 2001, which supported macroeconomic stabilization, a key to the
success of the SAC3-supported program.         The PRGF program remained on track in 2002 despite
increasing internal and external tensions, and the IMF supported the SAC3 targets for social sector
spending. Increased defense expenditures and shortfalls in revenue and donor support have however
delayed the payment of expenditure arrears, as envisioned under the IMF program.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Although the design of SAC3 and time horizon was less than optimal in retrospect, the Bank
generally supervised the operation well such that all conditions were met.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Government engaged in a sustained dialogue with the Bank leading up to the operation.
Counterparts worked with the Bank on economic and sector work for telecommunications, PSD and
privatization. The result was a broadcomprehensive reform program that, although difficult to implement,
has moved Georgia a several steps toward improving the regulatory environment for PSD and improving
social expenditures.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government carried out all tranche conditions, though three extensions were needed.
This performance is satisfactory in light of the negative external factors discussed in section 5, including
the politically charged atmosphere leading up to the 2000 elections. The Government also took measures to
rescind the efforts of government agencies, including at the local level, to issue their own licensing
requirements, and overrode SDLM's power play in order to have a more meaningful land reform law and
implementing regulations.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. In fact IA performance was only "marginally" satisfactory (again, not a rating available for
ICRs) for a number of reasons. There was a broad range of performance among the implementing
agencies. For example, the Ministry of Health performed well and leveraged their downsizing and secured
support from the MOF to support severance packages. However, other IA did not perform as well. On
licensing, various central and government agencies put the program at risk by issuing licensing
requirements which were against the spirit of the 1999 licensing law. The MOJ to address this problem by
amending the law. The Standards agency also attempted to enact changes on the 1986 certification law
which were in conflict with the commitments made by Government to adopt a voluntary system in line with
WTO and EU practices. The SDLM initially worked to undermine land reform and attempted to create
serious conflicts of interest. Working with the MOF was good at times, but difficult at others because of
the frequent changes in management.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Despite difficult circumstances, the government carried out all conditions of the credit.

8. Lessons Learned

SAC3 would have been better served by a TA project that supported not only discrete activities, but
aimed at true capacity building, which is essential in a country with relatively weak institutions. The



                                                    - 12 -

Structural Reform Support (SRS) project went to the Board at the same time as the SAC3, and supported
its key reform areas. Unfortunately, the SRS was not as effective in helping SAC3 achieve its full potential
because it focused too much on civil works and discrete measures such as preparation for privatization.

A twothree-tranche operation with a significantly longer implementation time would have better
suited the Georgian reform programas not optimal. The three-tranche approach did not add much value
to the reform process and limited flexibility in adapting the program to changing circumstances. For
example, several conditions of second tranche were repeated in the third tranche (budgetary allocations to
social sectors, non-infrastructure privatization, business climate) and some were weak, such as the
preparation of reports on the business climate. On public finance, it might have been appropriate to focus
on tax and customs administration, but that was not in the program. Likewise, it might have been better to
target large state-owned enterprises not slated for privatization, such as the railways, which needed closer
oversight and financial accountability.

The Bank needs to be more realistic in estimating implementation time, particularly for a three
tranche operation with many conditions. The more than doubling of implementation time showed a
substantial underestimate at appraisal. It might be argued that it is better to plan for a short time frame to
keep reform moving as briskly as possible, and request extensions only under strong extenuating
circumstances. However, the Bank runs the risk of giving Borrowers the impression that extensions are
always available, and the Bank loses credibility. Thus, a slowing of reform might be the actual result as
Borrowers realize that they can relax on implementation and accelerate their efforts shortly before the next
scheduled closing date, in order to secure an extension.

The Bank needs to spend more time raising ownership of the program at the level of implementing
agencies.    While significant consultations took place with higher level Government officials at the
preparation stage, the repeated problems caused by implementing agencies suggest that the more could
have been done to engage their participation at this stage, thus diminishing risks to program implementation
resulting from high turnover of ministers, for example.

The quality of governance may dictate the impact and the sustainability of the operation. Although
the Government carried out all conditions of all three tranches, sustainability is highly questionable because
the achieved capacity building was weak and there was little cohesion between the main branches of
government. There was high staff turnover and limited absorptive capacity. These disadvantages were
directly related to weak governance.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                       Assessment of Implementation of Structural Adjustment Credit III


    1. Chief Impacts and Achievements

    In regard to measures undertaken within the framework of Structural Adjustments credit three main
    directions can be identified, They are the following:

    a) Measures, targeted at improvement of business environment:




                                                    - 13 -

Reform of licensing system was started. In this regard jointly with the World Bank experts was carried
out review and examination of currently existing licensing system. As a result of the above mentioned
study existing drawbacks were identified with purpose of elimination of which was prepared and
adopted the law on "Issuance of Licenses and Permits for Entrepreneurial activities," which is in
compliance with international standards. The law defines those spheres of activities, which shall be
subject to licensing. Also, the law determines entities authorized to issue licenses as well as related
procedures and principles.

Within the framework of the program, the reform of the system of certification of production and
services has begun. A corresponding strategy has been elaborated and adopted. An integral part of the
above mentioned reform processes is abridgment of the list of goods and services, subject to
certification, which has already been carried out partially, as the list has been abridged by 60%.
Transformation from mandatory certification to voluntary certification is envisaged. Completion of the
reform is planned by the end of the year 2003.

With purpose of improvement of business environment were simplified rules of registration of legal
persons. Excessively bureaucratic requirements were eliminated.

b) Measures, targeted at strengthening of private sector:

Within the framework of the given program important measures were undertaken in the area of
establishing private ownership on land and development of adequate legislative basis necessary for
promotion of formation of land market. As a result of the above mentioned efforts a farmer is entitled
to utilization of land and it can be subject of purchasing, sales, mortgage and insurance. Land reform
promoted processes of formation of land as equity. As of December 31, 2000 are registered about 7500
instances of sales and acquisition of land.

 Within the framework of the program were implemented measures targeted at privatization of
state-owned enterprises. Enterprises were divided into three categories in accordance with their
relevance. Privatization of most of the enterprises was carried out. Thus, 244 enterprises belonging to
III category were privatized; Out of enterprises belonging to II category 29 and out of enterprises
belonging to I category 26 were privatized.

c) Measures targeted at rationalization of public expenditures.

In this regard a major achievement is adoption of the law on "State Procurement", which represents an
effective anti-corruption instrument enactment of which is a substantial contribution into economic and
effective usage of budgetary resources.

Within the framework of the program were identified main priorities to be financed from the state
budget, of which the social system is a main priority. Allocations aimed at keeping 13% of the total
budget for education and 7% for the healthcare sector.         Targeted financial assistance to single
pensioners (family benefits) has begun. For this purpose 14 million GEL is provided on annual basis.
The budget execution for the social sectors improved and no further arrears were accumulated.


2. Impediments to implementation of planned activities:

a) Lack of coordination between governmental structures of Georgia.


                                                - 14 -

b) In the process of planning of certain activities and measures public mentality was not duly taken
into consideration. As a result some entities and organizations implemented planned measures due to
being compelled to do so, rather than fully realizing content and objectives of such measures and
efforts.
c) Negative impact of external economic shocks, which contributed to economic instability. Also, a
large proportion of government revenues are directed to service the external debt.


3. We must proceed with directing consistent efforts towards the spheres discussed above. Apart
from that, information must cover rating as well.

In the event, if Structural Adjustments Program shall be extended, we consider, that it should be
directed at three main spheres:

a) Strengthening of management of public expenditures and introduction of mechanisms of program
financing. Also, improvement of mechanisms of forecasting of state budget revenues.
b) Reform of state administration and implementation of institutional reforms.
c) Further improvement of business and investments climate. Simplification of legislative framework
regulating small business and removal of administrative barriers.
d) Institution building and support of executive bodies, in particular the newly established Ministry of
Finance. The most attention should be given to customs, tax department, as well as treasury and
external debt management.

4. Quality of Implementation by the Bank.

Quality of implementation by the Bank is assessed as satisfactory, though in certain instances Bank
experts did make mistakes. The first draft of the Law on Licensing was elaborated with assistance of
the World Bank experts, though after its approval and adoption follow-up mission of the Bank
identified certain contradictions and inaccuracies in the law, due to which it was revised and adopted
again. The same has happened in regard to the Law on State Procurement.


5. Quality of Implementation by the Borrower:

Quality of implementation by the borrower is also assessed as satisfactory. The above assessment is
provided by the fact that all objectives, set within the framework of the Structural Adjustments Credit
were not reached.

6. Irreversibility of Processes.

Measures, undertaken within the framework of Structural Adjustments Credit are irreversible and the
government is directing its efforts at strengthening of achieved results and further expansion of the
scope of reforms. Thus, in the sphere of reform of the system of licensing two by-laws are being
prepared. The Ministry of Economy of Georgia with the purpose of identifying currently existing
problems is carrying out monitoring of implementation of reforms in the sphere of licensing and
evaluation of their impact on activities of businessmen on regular basis. The reform of certification
system is proceeding and completion of these reforms is planned by the end of the year 2003. Also, the
government is proceeding with provision of targeted financial assistance of single pensioners.




                                                - 15 -

    Footnote: This note summarizes the comments received from the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Finance,
    the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade; and the Bank of Georgia. These comments are in files.

(b) Cofinanciers:

    Comments Royal Netherlands Embassy Tbilisi

    Review SAC-III Georgia

    In general terms the embassy shares the view of the SAC-III performance.

    It contributed to reduce macro-economic imbalances to a certain degree and improved the environment
    for private sector development with regard to the legislation and regulatory framework. It is also worth
    mentioning that under the present conditions it is quite an achievement that the Georgian government
    has been able for the last two years to improve budget expenditure to the social sectors (basic health,
    education and social protection), including reducing arrears in this field.

    Nevertheless due to weak governance and a lack of political commitment on both the government and
    the parliament it is doubtful if the achieved results will be sustainable.
    With a view on the upcoming parliamentary elections in October 2003 there is a tendency on the
    Georgian side to slow down reforms and of fiscal slippage.

    The legislation and regulatory framework for encouraging the private sector development are in place,
    the business climate as such in Georgia has not improved. On the contrary, the impression is - mainly
    expressed by foreign companies and investors ­ that the business climate is deteriorating. The main
    problem is a lack of proper implementation of legislation and non-performance on law-enforcement as
    a result of lack of political commitment (for fair competitiveness, transparency etc.) and rampant
    corruption.

    Establishment of adequate legislation is a first step for reforms, proper implementation is a necessary
    second step. Lessons learned from the SAC-III are, that the time-frame should not be too tight and that
    future programs should pay more attention to political reality with regard to implementation of
    reforms.

    In this respect complementary technical assistance for enhancing the implementation of future
    Structural Adjustment Credits (or in future the PRSC) should be considered.

    Jos Weijland ­ Royal Netherlands Embassy - Tbilisi

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

    Not Applicable




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Macroeconomic Framework                         Satisfactory macro-economic framework in       Board Presentation Condition
                                                place

                                                Satisfactory macroeconomic performance (in Second Tranche Condition
                                                particular meet macro-economic program
                                                fiscal revenue and tax arrears reduction
                                                targets)

                                                Satisfactory macroeconomic performance (in Third Tranche Condition
                                                particular meet macro-economic program
                                                fiscal revenue and tax arrears reduction
                                                targets)
Public Finance

Strengthen expenditure management               - The Government has included in the 1999      Board Presentation Condition
                                                budget 14.3 million GEL for the poverty
                                                benefit
                                                 - The share of health expenditure amounts to
                                                7.3 percent of the consolidated 1999 budget
                                                and the share of education expenditure
                                                amount to 13 percent.
                                                 - The monitoring mechanism for the
                                                above-mentioned expenditures has been
                                                established and is operating
                                                Satisfactory execution of health, education
                                                and poverty benefit expenditures

                                                 - Adequate execution of the 1999 budget       Second Tranche Condition
                                                 - Adequate allocations to health, education
                                                and poverty benefit in the 2000 budget

                                                 - Adequate execution of the 2000 budget       Third Tranche Condition
                                                 - Payment of all outstanding arrears to health
                                                education and poverty benefit
Private Sector Development

Improve the quality of the business             Satisfactory implementation of the new         Second Tranche Condition
environment                                     procurement regime by selected central
                                                ministries

                                                 - Satisfactiory implementation of the         Third Tranche Condition
                                                licensing reform
                                                 - Satisfactory implementation of the new
                                                procurement regime
                                                Streamline business registration procedures Board Presentation Condition
                                                by eliminating the requirement to obtain a
                                                stamp/seal from the local police and other
                                                administrative entities; the decree of NBG
                                                prohibiting commercial banks to open new
                                                accounts for new businesses without a seal;
                                                and the requirement to visit the Statistic
                                                Department. Limit the number of signatures
                                                for the issuance on a tax ID number to one.
                                                Widely publicise these changes in the media.
Promote land and real estate markets            - Land registration performed for more to      Board Presentation Condition
                                                2000 enterprises
Privatization of non-infrastructure enterprises - Completion of zero-price bidding for 244     Board Presentation Condition
                                                companies

                                                - Submission of a report demonstrating         Second Tranche Condition
                                                satisfactory implementation of the non
                                                infrastructure privatization program




                                                                   - 17 -

                                         - Submission of a progress report              Third Tranche Condition
                                        satisfactory to IDA demonstrating
                                        implementation of the non-infrastructure
                                        privatization program. (e.g., auctions results
                                        for all enterprises in Tier III have been
                                        publicized and Tier I and II enterprises have
                                        been either privatized or assigned to the
                                        Resolution unit).
Hospital restructuring                  Agreement on the hospital restructuring plan Board Presentation Condition

                                        Implementation of the restructuring plan in
                                        line with the steps agreed upon with IDA        Second Tranche Condition

                                        Implementation of the first phase of the
                                        restructuring plan and preparation of an        Third Tranche Condition
                                        action plan satisfactory to IDA for the
                                        implementation of the second phase


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Macroeconomic Framework                 A Program Monitoring Committee composed Board Presentation Condition
                                        of key officials for each of the program
                                        components has been established
Public Finance

Strengthen the Revenue administration   - Adoption of reorganization decree for the     Board Presentation Condition
                                        STDG
                                        - Job descriptions and new performance
                                        monitoring systems setting objectives and
                                        performance targets, have been established
                                        for management and technical staff


Strengthen expenditure management       - Adoption of reorganization decree for the     Board Presentation Condition
                                        Ministry of Finance
Private Sector Development

Improve the quality of the business      - Enactment of a licensing law satisfactory to Board Presentation Condition
environment                             IDA
                                         - Enactment of a procurement law and
                                        adoption of implementing regulations
                                        satisfactory to IDA

                                        - Issuance of licensing implementing            Second Tranche Condition
                                        regulations satisfactory to IDA
                                         - Undertake quarterly surveys to monitor
                                        licensing burden and impact of licensing
                                        reform; prepare action plan addressing key
                                        issues and submit the results to IDA
                                         - Adoption of an institutional strengthening
                                        plan for carrying out state procurement

                                         - Enactment of Laws on Fees, Certification     Third Tranche Condition
                                        and Accreditation and issue respective
                                        implementation regulations satisfactory to
                                        IDA
                                        Submit to IDA a report summarizing the          Second Tranche Condition
                                        results of the review of the Enlarged
                                        Investment Council, main issues discussed
                                        and action plan to address them

                                        Submit to IDA bi-annual reports summarizing     Third Tranche Condition
                                        the results of the review of the Enlarged
                                        Investment Council, and the implementation




                                                             - 18 -

                                           of the action plan to address the issues
                                           identified
Promote land and real estate markets       Enactment of an amended Law on                 Board Presentation Condition
                                           Administration and Disposition of
                                           State-owned Non-agricultural Land" and
                                           issuance of implementing regulations
                                           satisfactory to IDA
Private participation in infrastructure    - Amendments to the privatization law          Board Presentation Condition
                                           (satisfactory to IDA)
                                            - Adoption of the key sets of principles for
                                           Telecommunication and Poti-Port
                                           privatization satisfactory to IDA

                                            - Hiring of financial and legal advisor to    Second Tranche Condition
                                           assist in the privatization of
                                           telecommunication enterprises; submission
                                           to IDA non-objection a satisfactory
                                           privatization strategy and timetable and a
                                           regulatory framework for the
                                           telecommunication sector
                                            - Submission to IDA non-objection a
                                           satisfactory development strategy and
                                           regulatory framework for Poti Port

                                            - Recruitment of financial/legal advisors for Third Tranche Condition
                                           the implementation of the development
                                           strategy for Poti Port including structuring
                                           concessions arrangements for port
                                           operations
                                            - Offer for sale the telecommunication
                                           companies Georgia Telecommunications and
                                           Georgia Electro Communications

1End of project




                                                               - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
BOP/Budget Support                                          60.00           60.00              100


Total Baseline Cost                                         60.00           60.00
                        Total Project Costs                 60.00           60.00
                  Total Financing Required                  60.00           60.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00        60.00          0.00         60.00
BOP/Budget Support                (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
Total Financed by IDA
   Total                          0.00              0.00        60.00          0.00         60.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
a/ Or SDR79.1 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00



                                                - 20 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             60.00             0.00             60.00
  BOP/Budget Support                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Total Financed by IDA
      Total                                0.00               0.00             60.00             0.00             60.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  b/ Or SDR79.1 million.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
BOP/Budget Support            60.00                                 60.00                               100.0




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

     NOT APPLICABLE




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1997-1998                 1    Task Team Leader

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05-17-99                  1    Task Team Leader                    S               S
                                        1    Urban Planned
                                        2    Consultants
                                        1    Sr. Telecom Enginner
                                        1    Lead Country Officer
                                        1    Lead Private Sector Devp. Spl.
                                        1    Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spl.

 Supervision
              1999 - 2000               1    Task Team Leader                    S               S
                                        3    Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                                        7    Consultant
                                        1    Program Assistant
                                        2    Lead Technical Specialist
                                        2    Sr. Country Economists
                                        1    Lead Country Officer

              Second Tranche            1    Task Team Leader                    S               S
                                        1    Senior Advisor
                                        2    Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spcl.
                                        1    Program Coordinator

              April 17 to               1    Sector Manager                      S               S
              April 24, 2001            1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Economist
                                        1    Public Sector Management Spl.
                                        3    Consultants

              July 30 to                1    Task Team Leader                    S               S
              August 3, 2001            1    Program Coordinator
                                        1    Public Sector Management Spl.

              Feb. 15 to                1    Task Team Leader                    S               U
              Feb. 26, 2002             1    Public Sector Specialist
                                        1    Health Specialist
                                        1    Economist
                                        2    Consultants


 ICR
              FY2003                    1     Task Team Leader                   S               S
                                        1     Consultant (E)




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            49.0                         198.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 14.1                           43.9
  Supervision                          116.6                         570.8
  ICR                                   10.4                           29.2
  Total                                190.1                         842.9
a/ Estimate




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document For a Proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit in the Amount of SDR 44.3 million
(US$60 million equivalent) to Georgia, June 4, 1999.

Development Credit Agreement June 30, 1999.

Memorandum of the President on a Country Assistance Strategy for Georgia, September 22 1997.

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)




                                                  - 27 -

- 28 -

