Document of
The Worldl B~amnk
DEULLF~ E~~LP~7                T(FOI OFIFCECAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2006a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR A
REVISED AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 28, 1977
ThFis do¢ammen bas a restrh¢ted its g thetrou nod mey be used by recipients only an the performance of
their ocE¢aD duties. Ilts conlteunts many rnot othegise be disclosedl without Wolrld BznDk authoirizationl.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                      = Birr 2.07
Birr 1.0                                     = US$0.483
Birr 1 million                               = US$483,000
ABBREVIATIONS
AVA         -        Awash Valley Authority
AVC         -        Awash Valley Corporation
AVDA        -        Awash Valley Development Agency
EELPA       -        Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
MAESCO      -        Melka-Sadi Agricultural Estate Company
VADA        -        Valleys Agricultural Development Authority
FISCAL YEARP.
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA FOR A
REVISED AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$25.0 million on
standard IDA terms for the Revised Amibara Irrigation Project. This
credit would replace Credit 418-ET in the amount of US$17.0 million,
approved by the Executive Directors on June 7, 1973, which would be
cancelled. The proceeds of the credit would be passed on to the Awash
Valley Development Agency (AVDA) under a project financing agreement
at 6% per annum repayable over 50 years including an eight year grace
period on interest and principal. The African Development Fund and
the European Development Fund would participate through parallel financ-
ing in amounts equivalent to 5.0 million African Development Fund Units
of Account (about US$5.5 million) and US$16.9 million, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in March 1975, and
its report (790a-ET, dated December 1, 1975) has been circulated. This
report was the subject of discussion with the Provisional Military
Administrative Council (PMAC) in July 1975. These discussions provided
an opportunity to emphasize the Bank's interest in supporting the
Government in its pursuit of more rapid and equitable development, while
making clear the Bank's view that these objectives could only be realized
if certain critical policy issues were recognized and acted upon. In
April 1976, the Government announced its "National Democratic Revolution
Program," following which detailed reviews of sectoral programs were
begun. A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia during February/March
1977, and an economic updating report is presently under preparation.
The preliminary findings of this mission are reflected in the following
paragraphs.
1/ This section is substantially the same as that of the Ethiopia -
Road Sector Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Country Objectives and Strategy
3.        Ethiopia is ruled by a military government (the Provisional
Military Government of Socialist Ethiopia) which espouses socialism. In
the economic sphere, this involves raising the living standard of all
Ethiopians, especially the poor, through state control of the major
industries and transport organizations,the financial system and foreign
trade, and through the mobilization of the mass of the people to increase
production. The National Democratic Revolution Program gives priority
to the Agricultural sector while industry will be developed to meet the
"needs of the masses". Agricultural production by peasant farmers and
by state farms is to be encouraged; the financial institutions are to be
streamlined; and incentives are to be maintained in the private sector.
Also among its aims are: free education, improved health services and
the provision of wider employment opportunities. The development of
urban centers away from Addis Ababa and Asmara, and, within the urban
sector, the development of productive activities as well as the provision
of services, are likely to receive emphasis.
4.        In September, a Government statement revealed further details
of Government strategy. Short- and long-term plans are, the statement
said, being drawn up. The short-term plan will concentrate on immediate
economic and social problems of unemployment, shortage of consumer goods
and inflation. The long-term plan will attempt to increase agricultural
production both through the use of modern inputs and through efforts
to reorganize the farming system; to reorganize trade by putting essential
goods under the control of state trading corporations and cooperative
shops; and to promote the construction industry and reorient the banking
system so as to eliminate urban housing shortages.
Economic and Social Reforms
5.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced
in line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the
majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural
land has been made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and
user rights of up to 10 hectares have been allocated to former tenants
and to others personally willing to cultivate the land. In nomadic
areas, traditional grazing rights were protected. Former commercial
farms have either been handed over to peasants for individual or collective
cultivation, or have been retained as state farms.
6.        The second main feature of the land reform was the formation
of peasant associations. By February 1977, over 24,000 associations
with 6.7 million members had been formed; it is estimated that this
membership represents a substantial majority of rural households. These



- 3 -
associations decide on limited security and judicial matters through
elected committees. They are responsible for land redistribution and
management and for the establishment of cooperatives. Representative
associations are also being established at woreda (sub-district) and
awraja (district) levels. To help implement the land reform and the
establishment of peasant associations, the Government in late 1974 sent
all university and higher secondary students into the rural areas for
one year (the "zemetcha" campaign). The land reform appears to have
received popular support in most areas, especially among former
tenants.
7.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses was restricted to one per family; extra houses were
nationalized. Urban dwellers' associations ("kebeles") have been
established to parallel the peasant associations and with similar powers.
About 1,500 such associations have been established in 600 towns through-
out the country, 290 of which are in Addis Ababa. They are intended to
undertake construction of schools, clinics and roads and to establish
market centers and cooperative shops. Kebele co-operative shops are
being used for distribution of certain essential goods in short supply.
They already have a financial basis since they collect rents for
nationalized houses up to a certain level. Elections of kebele officials
were held in November 1976.
8.        Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some
owned by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975. All banks have been
reorganized and placed under the direct control of the National Bank
of Ethiopia. The financial sector now comprises two state commercial
banks, two specialized credit institutions (the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank and the Housing and Savings Bank), the
Ethiopian Insurance Corporation and small-scale credit co-operatives.
All nationalized manufacturing plants are organized into sector cor-
porations under the Ministry of Industry. State farms have been placed
under the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement. Joint ventures bet-
ween the state and friendly countries will be permitted in both agriculture
and industry.
Compensation
9.        The Government has stated that compensation will be paid to
the former owners (both local and foreign) of nationalized enterprises.
In February 1976, it established a commission to decide how compensation
should be determined and to process claims. The commission has so far
produced no concrete results, but is believed to be making an



effort to carry out its task. A number of claims have been received by
the Commission and are under review.
Basic Economic Situation
10.       The reforms have taken place against a backgrcund of desperate
poverty and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita
GNP' of about US$100 in 1975, is classified by the UN as one of the 25
least developed countries in the world. The population, estimated at
about 28 million in 1975, is predominantly rural (about 90%). Some 7%
of the population is literate; there is one physician for every 70,000
people and only 19% of the children of primary school age are actually
enrolled. In many highland areas, soils have become seriously depleted
as population pressure has forced people to cultivate ecologically un-
suitable land. The lack of transport infrastructure is such that only
about one quarter of the population is within one day's round trip on
foot from an all weather road. During the drought of 1972/73, which is
estimated to have taken 100-150 thousand lives, the lack of transport
hampered relief operations. The net effect of all these factors is
that there has been little or no improvement in living standards for
the rural population for many years. Indeed, prior to land reform,
living standards in many areas of the country were probably declining.
11.       Ethiopia is not without natural resources.   Gold, platinum,
copper and potash exist, and there has been considerable petroleum
exploration in recent years. However, none of these minerals has been
proved to exist in sufficiently large quantities to be exploited on a
large scale; and in any case the development of agriculture appears
likely to be the only way of spreading the benefits of development
sufficiently widely.
12.       Ethiopia continues to face formidable constraints to her
development. The low level of development itself implies low savings
and investment, the absence of infrastructure and the merely token
presence of organized government in many parts of the country. Much
of Ethiopia's skilled and trained workforce has left the country and
has not been replaced because of the closure of higher educational
institutions. The level of public savings remains low in relation to
the programs of public spending likely to be generated to meet demands
for social services, as well as military spending. There is the pros-
pect of a serious medium- or long-term foreign exchange constraint
since Ethiopia must import most resources apart from food (which it
still requires in the short-term), either as raw materials or in
manufactured form.



- 5-.
13.       Ethiopia has always faced external security difficulties and
internal dissension. Since the revolution, the internal security
situation has become increasingly difficult over a wider geographic
area, although the possibility still exists to continue development
activities in most of the country. The conflict with movements desiring
Eritrean independence dates back 15 years, but appears no nearer a
peaceful resolution. External difficulties could arise with Somalia
over the future of Djibouti, which is due to achieve independence this
year.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
14.       In February 1977, Lieutenant-Colonel Mengistu Hailu-Mariam,
formerly first vice-chairman of the ruling military council (the Dergue)
became Chairman of the Council and Head of State, following the execution
of former Chairman Brigadier-General Teferi Bante and six other Dergue
members. The seven were accused of being connected with an underground
Marxist group, the Ethiopian Peoples' Revolutionary Party. Executions
of suspected opposition supporters and assassinations of government and
trade union officials supporting the government (presumably by opposition
groups) have occurred frequently over the last year.
15.       Despite these   political difficulties, the regional
security problems mentioned earlier, and the upheavals attributable to
the major economic and social reforms referred to, the economy has per-
formed surprisingly well. Preliminary national accounts data show
that real GDP increased by 0.6% in 1974/75 and 3.0% in 1975/76. When
account is taken of the loss of some 30% of industrial production which
formerly originated from the Eritrea region and of stagnation in private
investment, this result is not unimpressive. The Government has approxi-
mately doubled its own rate of capital spending over the past two years,
a result of improved project implementation in the roads sub-sector
and of heavier emphasis on agriculture. The distribution of assets
and income has improved. Despite some weakening in the underlying
external position, Ethiopia has maintained an extremely high level of
foreign reserves. Major reorganizations of Government and the economy
in general are taking place.
16.       The land reform has caused a large but unquantifiable redis-
tribution of assets and income towards former tenants. Because of
favorable weather conditions, prompt action by government agencies to
maintain input and credit supplies and the positive effect of the land
reform on peasant incentives, grain production was maintained or
increased in the 1975/76 harvest season except on some of the state
farms. Despite this increase in peasant production, the supply of grain
to the main urban centers fell short of requirements and caused a sub-
stantial rise in urban food prices. This appears to have resulted



- 6 -
from an increased level of rural food consumption, higher on-farm food
stocks and dislocation in the marketing and transport system. A second
result of the land reform appears to have been a shift in the pattern
of agricultural production away from export crops except coffee, towards
grain. Coffee deliveries for export increased during 1976. Thirdly,
there has been an expansion in rural purchasing power resulting in
increased demand for government services of all kinds, principally
education, health and agricultural extension services as well as for
mass consumption items such as textiles, leather goods and salt.
Similar results have followed from the urban land reform except that
high food prices have constrained growth of urban real incomes.
Despite considerable unrest among the urban working class, the Government
has conceded relatively limited wage increases, and has permitted no
increase so far in Government salaries, other than for those at the
minimum.
17.       The organization of trade has been disrupted by the Eritrean
situation,by harassment of merchants suspected of hoarding and profiteering
and by the general uncertainties confronting the private sector. However,
the nationalized manufacturing industries have performed better than
expected, having succeeded in increasing production outside Eritrea in
most sectors.   These industries are reaching the stage where major
increases in capacity are being considered.
18.       Government revenue has been increasing but less rapidly than
expenditure. Up to the end of FY76, the main expenditure increases have
been in military, general administration and development (capital) expen-
ditures. However, revenues only increased by 15% in FY75 and by 9% in
FY76, so that net domestic borrowing, mostly from the banking systems
now covers some 22% of total government spending, whereas two years ago
it was negligible. This recourse to deficit financing coupled with the
urban grain deficit referred to earlier is having inflationary consequences.
However, the Government has taken some positive measures on the revenue
side over the last year, notably the enactment of new land use fees,
agricultural income taxes and a substantial increase in the rate of
surtax on coffee exports to take advantage of high world prices. It also
suspended other export surtaxes which were likely to discourage production
and has been tightening its tax administration procedures. A currency
reform,enacted in September 1976, has also helped contain inflationary
pressures. The Government envisages improving its revenue position through
appropriation of the surpluses of nationalized enterprises and, in the
longer run, by greater use of local taxation. The Addis Ababa retail
price index was 28.6% higher in 1976 than in 1975 compared with 7-8% per
annum increases over the previous three years, but this mainly reflects
the grain price increases referred to earlier which may be temporary.



- 7 -
19.       Ethiopia's balance of payments position weakened slightly
during 1975. Although official reserves increased slightly (by US$10
million over the whole year), this was principally due to a substantial
increase in foreign borrowing; the current account balance moved into
substantial deficit (US$46 million) compared with surpluses of US$76
million and US$56 million in 1973 and 1974, respectively. Much of this
deterioration was due to a decline in the volume of coffee exports
caused by the outbreak of coffee berry disease. Preliminary estimates
for 1976 show the current account balance in surplus once again, princi-
pally because of the increase in coffee prices, but also reflecting higher
volume of coffee exports than in the previous year.   Most other exports
fell. There was also an increase in public sector net foreign borrowing
and in net inward transfers. Net reserves at the end of December, at
US$326 million, cover about 11 months' imports c.i.f. at the 1976 rate.
External Assistance
20.       Following the land reform, a basis exists upon which the new
Government can build an accelerated development effort, with emphasis
on the rural areas. At the same time, we do not expect coffee prices
in the medium-term to continue at their present high level. Moreover,
there are indications that the volume of imports, the growth of which
had slowed down over the last two years, is now starting to increase.
For these reasons, Ethiopia will need a substantial volume of external
assistance in the future. Ethiopia's poverty, its stated desire of
making greater use of local rather than imported resources and the need
to ensure a high level of net transfer from external assistance indicate
a strong case for local cost financing, provided such financing adds to,
rather than substitutes for,efforts to raise domestic savings, especially
in the public sector.
21.       Unlike many other African countries which were formerly
dependent, Ethiopia has no traditional source of technical and financial
assistance. The Bank Group has been and is currently providing a relatively
high level of assistance. During 1971-74, IBRD accounted for 20.2% and
IDA 17.4% of gross disbursements of public medium- and long-term
term loans. IDA's share is expected to increase substantially during
the next few years as disbursements under IDA credits committed during
1974-75 take place. As of end 1975, the IBRD's share of total public
debt outstanding and disbursed was 17.8% and the share of IDA was 18.8%.
As for public debt service, the IBRD's share was 34.6% in that same
year, while IDA's share was 2.3%. IBRD's share of total outstanding
debt is expected to decline to about 7% by 1980 but, because of the



- 8 -
relatively low levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors,
IDA debt outstanding as a percent of outstanding external public debt
is expected to be about 40% by 1980. The ratio of debt service to
exports was 7.6% in 1975, and is expected to fall to about 5% by 1980
because of the growing proportion of concessional aid in total debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
22.       Since 1950, the Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has totalled
US$396 million, comprised of 22 IDA credits totalling US$287 million
and 12 Bank loans totalling US$109 million. The IFC has made five
commitments in Ethiopia totalling US$15.7 million. More than one
half of the amount of lending (US$238 million) was committed in the
fiscal years 1972-76. In addition to the substantial increase in the size
of its operations in the last five years, the Bank Group has softened
its terms to Ethiopia; since FY73, our entire lending has been on IDA
terms.
23.       Until the late 1960s, we assisted the construction of trunk
roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In the late 1960s, our
program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and education, and in the
past five fiscal years we have made eight credits for agricultural
development totalling US$107.8 million and two credits for education
totalling US$33.0 million. In addition, our last twc road credits
(332-ET in 1972 and 552-ET in 1975) have placed emphasis on the con-
struction of agricultural roads. This program reflects the increased
opportunity for agricultural lending brought about by improved sectoral
knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and education in
the Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly assisted
by the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa, which has played a major
role in project identification and preparation in the agricultural sector.
24.       Using the rate of disbursements as a measure, the pace of
implementation of Bank Group projects in Ethiopia has improved. Dis-
bursements out of IDA credits totalled US$12.4 million in 1974, US$24.9
million in 1975 and US$39.1 million in 1976. As a result of the recent
political changes some delays in construction works have been experienced
as private contractors have been unwilling to bid owing to uncertainties,
fears concerning possible nationalization and difficulty in obtaining
finance from credit institutions. The operations of some Bank-financed
projects, Lower Adiabo (Cr. 516-ET), and Rangelands Development (Cr.663-ET),
have been adversely affected by security problems. Cost overruns have



- 9 -
affected two Bank Group financed projects -- the Addis Ababa Water and
Sewerage Project (Loan 818-ET) for which a US$5.5 million African
Development Fund loan has been arranged to cover the sewerage component
of the project, and the Amibara Irrigation Project (Cr. 418-ET) for
which the Government has requested supplemental IDA financing as part
of the proposed redesigned project. The Government has replaced the
former management of some Bank-financed projects by pecple who might
sometimes be technically less well qualified but have more Government
backing; such management changes have on occasion unsettled project
implementation.
25.        On the other hand, the political changes have involved a
stronger commitment to development. In many cases, project management
is improving and Bank-financed institutions are adapting to the changed
circumstances without losing effectiveness. There has been no general
deterioration in project implementation in Ethiopia. Moreover, there
is now every prospect that clearer guidelines from the Government are
emerging and that the uncertainties which gave rise to problems in
certain of our projects will be reduced. Annex II contains a summary
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1977
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In addition to its
lending program the Bank is pursuing a number of activities to support
the Government's development efforts including the secondment of an
advisor in project identification and preparation to the Planning
Commission.
26.        There are undoubtedly risks associated with operating in
Ethiopia at present, arising out of political uncertainties and security
problems. Furthermore, policies and programs within which the Bank can
operate have not always been formulated in any precise manner. There
have been difficulties in project work, but we consider these to have
been less than might have been expected given the revolutionary changes
of the last three years. New projects will be proposed for IDA financing
only where there is reasonable assurance of effective implementation in
line with our normal criteria. The Government's development strategy
which is both growth- and equity-oriented is one which the Bank strongly
supports.
27.        Because of the fundamental importance of agriculture, we
are, in preparing projects, emphasizing support for implementing the
reforms which have been announced in the agricultural sector. More
generally, we expect many of our other projects to reflect increased
emphasis on the rural sector; in education, the Government is planning
a program, which we propose to support, to make education more relevant
to development and more equitably available; the highways program is
paying ever increasing attention to rural roads; and we are attempting
to determine how we can most effectively be involved in rural water
supply. Simultaneously with the proposed credit, we are presenting for
your consideratior a credit for our first road sector project in Ethiopia,
and a proposed credit for a grain storage and marketing project may be
ready for consideration before long.



- 10 -
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN ETHIOPIA
28.       Ethiopia may be divided into six basic ecological regions which
vary considerably with regard to topography, climate, soils, natural
vegetation and agricultural potential. The central part of the country
is mostly high plateau, 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea level and dissected
by gorges and broad valleys; this plateau is surrounded by extensive low-
lands, most of which are inhabited only by nomadic pastoralists. While
no detailed land use data is available, it is estimated that about 50%
of the land is permanent pasture, 10% is cultivated, 20% is barren desert
or swamps, 10% rivers and lakes and 10% forests. The wide climatic and
ecological diversity allows a large variety of crops to be grown. In much
of the highland area the agricultural potential is good for crops ranging
from coffee, cotton, maize and bananas in the lower elevations, to wheat,
barley, sorghum, teff, oilseeds and pulses in the higher, cooler locations.
29.       Agriculture contributed about 48% of GDP in 1975/76, and provides
a livelihood for 85% to 90% of the population. Average total annual family
output (at farm prices) is about Birr 600 (US$300), and three-quarters of
this represents subsistence consumption. Cereals, coffee and other crops
accounted for 80% of gross agricultural output while livestock and livestock
products for the remaining 20%. The main agricultural exports are coffee,
oilseeds, pulses and hides and skins. Exports of meat, live animals, pulses
and oilseeds have expanded in recent years up to 1974/75 but fell last year;
the volume of coffee exports, however which fell after 1972/73 due to wide-
spread outbreaks of coffee berry disease, recovered slightly last year.
30.       Agricultural productivity is, in general, quite low.  Methods of
cultivation used by most traditional farmers have remained unchanged over
many centuries, and about two-thirds of the country's farm population operate
holdings of less than one hectare of crop land. In the past, the Government's
main attack on the problems of improving peasant farming was through a series
of comprehensive package projects in certain specific areas and the Minimum
Package Project (Cr. 416) which attempted a wider national coverage. These
programs focus on grain production and the encouragement of the use of
fertilizer and improved seeds through the coordination of extension, input
supply and credit. They have been extremely successful in terms of increased
output, numbers of participating farmers and credit repayment. The Government
is now in the course of redesigning the minimum package concept, to achieve
still wider coverage under a second phase program and to reflect the Govern-
ment's desire for greater self-reliance and involvement of the peasant
associations.
31.       The most urgent and vital problem confronting Ethiopian agriculture
is the advanced and accelerating erosion and consequently low and decreasing
agricultural potential in large part of the Northern Highlands which are
estimated to be inhabited by 1.6 million farm families. If the erosion con-
tinues unchecked in this area of marginal to moderate rainfall, within a
relatively short period (10-20 years) it will be impossible to reverse the



- 11 -
dowml'ard trend, and this area will become a permanent deficit area with an
increasing need for relief. A major effort to solve this problem is being
planned within a frame of future phases of the minimum package program, and
the organization of peasant associations under the land reform proclamation
may have enhanced the chances of undertaking effective rehabilitation work.
32.       During recent years agricultural output in Ethiopia has increased
cuite slowly, and the country has moved from a status of a net exporter of
cereals in the post-World War II period to self-sufficiency or to slight
grain deficits due in part to the rapidly increasing demand resulting from
urbanization.  As a result of the changed conditions following land reform,
the Government created the Agricultural Marketing Corporation in mid-1976
as a wholesale trading organization dealing in grain, oilseeds and pulses.
The purpose of establishing this Corporation was to assure stable producer
and consumer prices; maintain adequate producer incentives; and assure
an adequate food supply in all parts of the country. This effort would be
supported by the proposed credit for a grain storage and marketing project
referred to above (para 27).
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
33.       About 60,000 ha are now irrigated in Ethiopia, and the technical
possibilities for expanding this area are immense. Reconnaissance data
suggest that the soil and water resources in the Blue Nile Basin would permit
the year-round irrigation of about 500,000 ha. With the addition of poten-
tially irrigable areas in the Awash and Wabe Shebelli basins, a total of
some 750,000 ha could be brought under irrigated production in the long term.
The Awash River Basin is the only area in Ethiopia where large-scale water
resource development has been carried out thus far. The Basin covers about
115,000 km2 and contains some 175,000 ha of irrigable land. Development
has been accomplished largely by private capital, with Government, bilateral
and international participation under loose water allocation and control
arrangements. As of 1976, some 20,000 ha had been irrigated in the upper and
middle valleys and 32,000 ha in the lower valley. Production has been mainly
of high value cash crops, such as sugar, cotton, citrus and vegetables for
export or import substitution.
34.      A United Nations Development Programme study of the Awash River Basin,
carried out from 1961-1964, recommended the early irrigation development
of the Ifelka-Sadi and Amibara areas (see map). These areas are located in the
middle valley of the Awash River in the central eastern part of Ethiopia,
about 175 km east of Addis Ababa. Their topography consists of plains which
are generally flat and well suited to gravity irrigation. The soils are
suitable for a wide range of annual and perennial crops, although soil salinity
and alkalinity could become critical under irrigation without adequate provision
for drainage. The climate is semi-arid-with an average rainfall of 550 mm



- 12 -
occurring in two seasons. The area has good road and rail connections
with Addis Ababa and the ports of Assab and Djibouti. An all-weather
road runs to Addis Ababa and the Assab where port facilities are available.
Development of the area was entrusted to the Awash Valley Authority,
which was renamed the Awash Valley Development Agency (AVDA) in mid-1976;
it is a Government public authority created in 1962 to administer and
develop the natural resources of the Awash River Basin. In 1976 the
Valleys Agricultural Development Authority (VADA) was also created within
the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate and oversee the water resource
development of all river valleys in Ethiopia; this Authority thus
supervises the activities of AVDA, the Agency with direct responsibility
for implementing projects in the Awash Valley.
35.       The traditional inhabitants of the middle and lower Awash Valley
are Afar nomads. In the Melka-Sadi and Amibara areas there are about 7,500
Afars (some 1,500 families) who occupy the area and its environs including
the Alledeghi Plain for a portion of each year; these nomads own about
15,000 to 20,000 head of camels, cattle, sheep and goats. The rapid
increase duirng the period 1965-70 in the number of large farms utilizing
the waters of the Awash River for irrigation of valley land began to have
a serious impact upon the availability of dry season grazing for the
indigenous Afar herders. In order to alleviate this problem, the Ethiopian
Government determined to resettle the Afars in the middle and lower Awash
Valley, and AVDA was assigned the responsibility for developing a settle-
ment program. Small pilot settlement projects were started in 1967, and
over a period of seven years, the number of families in Amibara and
increased slowly to about 500, each assigned a 2.5 ha irrigated plot.
Performance of Afar settlers in crop cultivation has refuted earlier
negative generalizations about their ability to adjust to sedentary living.
36.       Irrigated development in the Melka-Sadi and Amibara areas at
present consists of 4,100 ha. Of this about 1,300 ha are being farmed
by the State Farm Development Authority and 1,300 ha in high value crops
(mainly bananas) by Melka-Sadi Agricultural Estate Company (MAESCO);
1,200 ha are being used by AVDA for the settlement of Afars, and 300 ha
are utilized by the Melka-Warer Agricultural Research Station. All these
cultivated areas are being irrigated by pump irrigation from the Awash
River. They have attracted up to 5,000 full time and seasonal workers
from the upland areas who have established communities on or adjacent to
the ongoing farm developments.
37.       Cotton at present is the main crop in the Middle and Lower
Awash Valley. In 1973/74, this area produced some 70,000 tons of high
grade medium staple seed cotton, about 80% of the country's total cotton
crop. Yields have consistently exceeded 30 quintal/ha under mechanized
farming conditions. Domestic production of cotton has increased over
the years and is now almost adequate to meet local demand. Inspite of
increased domestic demand for cotton, it is expected that Ethiopia would
become a net exporter of cotton in the near future.



- 13 -
The Original Amibara Irrigation Project
38.      An IDA appraisal mission visited the project area in October 1969 and found
that further studies, particularly on soils, were required before appraisal
could be completed. After completion of additional investigations, a 14,600 ha
gravity irrigation project including the Melka-Sadi and Amibara areas was
appraised in October 1971. Subsequently, after consultation with IDA, the
Government decided to lease about 4,600 ha of the upstreatr project area in
Melka-Sadi to MAESCO, in order to speed up construction and to utilize private
capital and expertise in land development. This change restricted the
irrigation development under the IDA project to about 10,000 ha in the Amibara
area, and resulted in a shift in the proposed site of the diversion weir from
Melka-Sadi downstream to Melka-Warer, which is located at the upstream tip
of the proposed 10,000 ha project area in Amibara. A further mission reviewed
the modified project in December 1972 and an IDA credit of US$17 million was
approved in July 1973 (Cr. 418) for a US$23 million project to be implemented
by AVDA    The credit was not declared effective,however, until August 1974, due
to delay in parliamentary ratification of the Credit Agreement.
39.       Meanwhile, in early 1974, AVDA    consultants reviewed the project's
cost estimates using current bids for earth moving works in Ethiopia and applying
these to the engineering designs for the proposed project. They found that there
had been a rapid escalation in construction costs and estimated that project
costs had risen 2-1/2 to 3 times the estimates used in the appraisal report.
This escalation occurred during a time of world-wide inflation in the wake of the
1973 oil crisis. The price contingencies included in the original project
cost amounted to only 16% of base costs and were clearly inadequate to cover the
large escalations. Discussions were therefore held with Government and the
consultants to work out alternative project plans. The consultants proposed
a gradual development of the Amibara area based on pump irrigation. The
principal advantages of pump irrigation were the comparatively lower initial
cost and the opportunity to phase investment and development to adjust to the
capabilities of AVDA to implement the project. The lower initial cost of the
pumping scheme, however, was offset by higher annual operating costs --
particularly for fuel, repairs and replacement costs -- and the difficulties
of pump maintenance which could impair the reliability of the water supply
and crop yields.
40.       An IDA mission visited Ethiopia in February 1975 to review
the status of the project and to determine the best means for development
between the alternative schemes of gravity and pump irrigation. The mission
was of the opinion that several important aspects of the alternate pumping
scheme had not been completely or adequately resolved and that a gravity plan
with less elaborate designs would still be preferable. Discussions with
Government and the completion of further studies by the consultants confirmed
these views, and IDA concluded that a reappraisal of the project was necessary



- 14 -
in order to fully evaluate the latest proposals. Reappraisal was
carried out in January/February 1976. At that time, it became evident
that as a result of land reform and Ethiopia's new policies regarding
nationalization of large-scale enterprises, the Government intended
to take over the already developed MAESCO farm. This development
opened a third alternative to the project, which was to include the
MAESCO farm in the project area once again, and to construct a diver-
sion weir for gravity irrigation upstream at Melka-Sadi, as was
envisaged under the initial proposal before MAESCO was granted its
concession. The shift in the weir site also offered the advantage
of lowering the cost of the weir and allowing the ultimate expansion
of the system over a considerably greater area than would otherwise
have been possible.
41.       The proposed project was therefore reappraised on the basis
of gravity irrigation with a diversion weir at Melka-Sadi. It would
still provide for irrigated development mainly for cotton production,
and the project area would now cover 10,300 ha in the Melka-Sadi and
Amibara areas, as compared with 10,000 ha in the Amibara area under
the original IDA project.
42.       Although the revised project concept is similar to the
original project in that it would provide for the development of
approximately 10,000 ha by gravity irrigation, the two projects
differ in their technical design due mainly to the re-location of
the weir and the accompanying changes in the project. The base cost
of the original project in 1972 was about US$17 million; if this
project were to be undertaken today, the base cost as of February 1977
would be about US$45 million, an increase of US$28 million. A rough
comparison may be drawn between these estimates and the cost of the
revised project. The base cost of the revised project minus the new
components added at reappraisal ($3.0 million for housing, machinery
and equipment for state farms, and funds for environmental controls)
plus an allowance for the already completed components, is estimated
at US$33 million; it can thus be seen that a saving of some
US$12 million was achieved through design changes. Price and physical
contingencies under the original project were estimated at US$6
million. Contingencies under the revised project are US$21 million.
Thus, the revised project is estimated to cost $67 million, $34 mil-
lion more than the original one.



- 15 -
After reappraisal, arranging for closing the financing gap required
several months. EEC, ADF, IDA and the Government have now agreed in
principle to a financing plan subject to necessary approval by their
appropriate decision-making bodies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
43.       A report entitled "Ethiopia - Appraisal of the Revised
Amibara Irrigation Project" (No. 1337-ET) is being circulated separately.
A Credit and Project Summary is provided as Annex III to this report, and
a supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex IV. This project
was prepared by AVDA with assistance from a consulting firm employed
under the original IDA credit (Cr. 418-ET) and reappraised by IDA in
January/February 1976. Negotiations took place in Washington in March
1977 with the Ethiopian delegation headed by Ato Kebede Temesgen, Head,
Credit and Investment Department, Ministry of Finance.
Purpose
44.      The purpose of the proposed project is to develop irrigated
agriculture in the Melka-Sadi and Amibara plains in the Middle Awash
River Valley. It would make a significant contribution towards
supporting Government's development strategy by increasing crop
production for domestic consumption, by building up a cadre of trained
and experienced personnel for further development of irrigation, and
by providing an important source of foreign exchange through the
expansion of cotton production for export promotion or import sub-
stitution.
Description
45.       The Project would provide gravity irrigation for 10,300 ha
in the Melka-Sadi and Amibara areas. It would include settlement of



- 16 -
some 800 Afar families (about 4,000 people) on 2,000 ha (of which
about 480 families have already been settled on 1,200 ha); development
of 4 state farms; construction of Project Headquarters, workshop, stores,
staff housing and purchase of operation and maintenance equipment, includ-
ing vehicles. Specifically, the project would provide for:
(a) a diversion weir on the Awash River;
(b) gravity irrigation and drainage networks to serve a
total of 10,300 ha;
(c) flood protection dykes;
(d) roads along the main canals and drains, including
unsurfaced tracks along secondary canals;
(e) project headquarters and management;
(f) establishment of four state farms (a total of 6,700 ha) and
for 2,000 ha of settlement;
(g) technical assistance including engineering supervision
and recruitment of technical personnel; and
(h) institution of environmental controls.
All project works would be completed in seven years with construction
beginning by late 1977.
46.       Works already implemented under the original IDA credit include
construction of a link road from the Awash-Tendaho Highway to the Melka-
Warer townsite, a feasibility study for the future Bolhamo and Angelele
projects, the construction of four wells to open new grazing areas on
the Alledeghi Plains, some office and staff housing facilities for AVDA,
and bush clearing on about 2,000 ha.
Detailed Features
47.        Diversion Weir, Irrigation and Drainage.   The Project would
provide gravity irrigation for an area of some 10,300 ha of which 2,800 ha
area already under pump irrigation would be converted to gravity. The works
to be constructed would include a low cost diversion weir across the Awash
River upstream from the Melka-Sadi area, a main canal, a distribution
network, drainage and flood protection dykes. The diversion weir would be



- 17 -
of the rockfill type about 4 meters high with a central o-verflow section.
A main canal, about 26 km long, would receive its supply directly from
the weir; delivery to the irrigated area would be by gravity through
earth canals. The distribution network would consist of secondary and
tertiary earth canals conveying water to farming units of approximately
10 ha each.
48.       Two main drains would remove excess rair and irrigation water
from the project area. Secondary, tertiary and field drains, with
spacing similar to that of the irrigation network would remove surplus
water from the fields and convey it to the main drains. Drainage waters
would be discharged into natural drainage channels leading to the
Cadda Billen Swamp downstream from the project area. On the basis of
present knowledge of groundwater levels and soil permeability, it is
likely that after about five years from the implementation of irrigation,
additional water-table control facilities may have to be installed. The
design of the main drains would take this into account. The timing
and area to be served by these additional facilities would be determined
by drainage investigations and water table monitoring initiated under the
project (Project Agreement, Section 3.03 (b)). The cost of constructing
such facilities has been included in the economic analysis, but not in
the project financing. Should ground water levels rise so as to adversely
affect the productivity of soils in the project area and if financing
were not available at the time, Government would bear the cost of installing
additional water table control facilities (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.01).
49.       Flood Protection Dykes.  Portions of the project area are
subject to annual flooding from high water in the Awash River. To reduce
the severity of the floods, a dyke has been constructed along the river
banks to protect the lands already developed. This 27 km dyke on the
western edge of the project area would be improved by raising the existing
dyke embankment over about 8 km of its length; also an additional 16 km
of new dyke would be constructed. An eastern dyke of about 32 km in
length would be constructed to protect the project area from run-off from
the Alledeghi Plains. The dykes would be up to 2 meters in height and
would protect the project from floods having a frequency of less than
once in five years. For floods of greater magnitude some portions of
the dyke may be breached thereby flooding an area of some 1,500 ha. It
is expected that in the event of flooding there would be time to plant
another crop after the flood recedes.
50.       Roads.  The project would include provision for the construc-
tion of approximately 90 km of roads along the main canals and drains.
In addition, about 100 km of unsurfaced tracks would be constructed
as part of the tertiary irrigation network.



- 18 -
51.       Project Headquarters.  The project would provide for the
construction of a Project Headquarters at or near the present AVDA
facilities at the Melka-Warer research station, as well as offices, a
workshop, stores, staff housing and related facilities for all portions
of development including initial operation and maintenance facilities.
Some offices and staff housing have already been constructed under the
original credit. Provision would also be made for vehicles and related
costs.
52.       Establishment of State Farms and Settlements.   The project
would provide for the establishment, on undeveloped land, of two state
farms of 1,700 ha each in Amibara and of two state farms of 1,650 ha
each in Melka-Sadi on land adjoining the MAESCO farm. Funds would be
included for on-farm development (i.e., bush clearing, land levelling,
construction of field canals and drains, etc.), as well as for related
farm buildings, staff housing, farm machinery, equipment and vehicles.
Farm development would be phased over a four year period to coincide
with construction of the irrigation network. The project would also
assist AVDA in the completion of its ongoing settlement program (para 35).
Some 320 additional Afar families (1,600 perscns) would be settled on
800 ha which have not yet been developed. The settlers would be organized
in groups of 40 families; each group would be allocated 100 ha or 2.5 ha
per family. Adequate credit for agricultural production would be provided
to these settlers (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04). In order
to provide alternative grazing areas for livestock which would be dis-
placed from the project area, AVDA would continue its construction program
of deep water wells in appropriate locations and institute sound livestock
management practices in these areas (Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
53.       Technical Assistance.  Since mid-1973 AVDA has employed Sir
William Halcrow and Partners (UK) as its engineering and technical
consultant for the Amibara Project. They are responsible for carrying
out detailed engineering designs, preparing tender documents, analysis
of bids and recommendations for award of contracts, supervision of civil
works construction and on-farm development, and establishment of an
operation and maintenance unit. These services would extend over the
seven-year project period. The project would also provide for a number
of qualified technical personnel to help AVDA with project implementation
and to train qualified Ethiopian counterpart staff. These personnel
would include: a project manager, a senior agriculturalist, an exten-
sion and training officer, a water management engineer, an 0 & M engineer,
an 0 & M mechanical supervisor, an agricultural mechanical supervisor,
an agronomist/entomologist and a farm manager for the state farms. AVDA



- 19 -
will fill these positions with experts whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA. The duties
of these personnel will include assisting AVDA in establishing a training
program for farm management staff (Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
54.       Environmental and Health Measures.   The environmental changes
which would be induced by the project would have both positive and
negative aspects. Where malaria and schistosomiasis are endemic, the
introduction of flood control, drainage and land levelling would sub-
stantially reduce swampy areas and so decrease the present natural breeding
areas for the vectors of these diseases. However, the drainage and
irrigation systems would be likely to become new health hazards, because
they would inevitably harbor these disease vectors. Funds would therefore
be provided under the project for control measures against schistosomiasis
and other water borne diseases. Government would ensure that adequate
medical, sanitary and training facilities are provided for the project
area (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
55.       Project Cost and Financing.   Total project cost excluding taxes
and duties (about $4.55 million) is estimated at $56.8 million of which
US$1.8 million (US$1.3 million from original IDA credit and US$0.5
million from Government) have already been disbursed under the original
project (para 46). Foreign exchange requirements are estimated at
$30.3 million, or about 53% of total project costs. Estimates for the
remaining civil and on-farm works were based on completed engineering
designs, and all base prices were estimated at prices prevailing at
the time of appraisal in January/February 1976 plus estimated price
escalation to February 1977. Total project costs include a physical
contingency of about 13% and price contingencies of about 44% (represent-
ing annual price contingencies varying between 13% and 5% per annum
for civil works and 9% and 7% per annum for equipment, machinery and
supplies). Total (physical plus price) contingencies thus amount to US$20.7
million or about 58% of the base cost of the redesigned project, excluding
works already completed.
56.       The financing of the project costs would be shared in the
following amounts and proportions:
---------------US$ million--------------------
Original               Revised
Proiect      %         Prniect     %
IDA                                       17.0      75         25.0        44
Government                                 5.8      25           9.4       16
European Development Fund                  -                   16.9        30
African Development Fund                   -                     5.5       10
Total
22.8     100         56.8       100



- 20 -
The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to Government. It would
cover about 44% of the project costs. It is estimated that IDA would finance
about $21 million of foreign exchange costs and $4 million of local costs.
The IDA contribution would finance the major portion of the irrigation
and drainage systems and the roads; it would also finance the consultant
costs and some of the buildings and housing at Project Headquarters. The
African Development Fund contribution of 5.0 million African Development
Fund Units of Account (about $5.5 million) would finance the western flood
dyke, the environmental controls, project supervision supplies, the equip-
ment, vehicles, buildings and housing for the state farms, and part of the
buildings and housing at Project Headquarters. The European Development
Fund contribution of $16.9 million would finance all on-farm development,
all farm machinery, and the equipment, vehicles, buildings and housing for
the settlement. Together the three agencies would finance 84% of the project
costs with the Government contributing 16%. The proceeds of the IDA credit
would be channelled through Government and onlent, together with Government
funds allocated for project development, to AVDA at 6% per annum repayable
over 50 years including an 8 year grace period on interest and principal
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)). Funds provided by the
other financing agencies for the operation of state farms would be made
available by Government to the State Farm Development Authority. The
effectiveness of the proposed financing agreements with the other financing
agencies would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)).
Procurement
57.       Contracts for all civil works to be financed by IDA (construction
of the weir, main canal, main drain, distribution network, eastern flood
dyke and all roads) would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Contracts for
the construction of the buildings and housing at Project Headquarters
financed by IDA (about $400,000 including contingencies) would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association. Due to the conditions
prevailing in Ethiopia at present, it is unlikely that foreign bidders
will tender for civil works contracts, and no domestic preference has
therefore been provided. Invitations to express interest fox civil
works construction have been called for internationally and six local
contractors capable of undertaking the work have expressed interest in
competitive bidding. Bids will be carefully reviewed by the Borrower's
consultants particularly with respect to the construction capabilities
of local contractors. Consultant services would be obtained on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursement
58.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a seven-
year period against:



- 21 -
(a) 63% of total cost of civil works, for irrigation,
drainage and flood protection, roads, buildings,
housing and deep wells to be financed by IDA;
(b) 100% of foreign cost of technical assistance; and
(c) amount required for refunding of 1973 credit (Credit 418-ET).
Disbursements would be fully documented. On the date of credit effective-
ness, the Association would withdraw from the credit account and repay
to itself the amount of Credit 418 withdrawn and outstanding as of that
date, including all unpaid charges thereon; the unwithdrawn balance of
Credit 418 would be cancelled as of the same date (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 2.02 (b).
Accounts and Audit
59.       AVDA is subject to annual audit by the Office of the Auditor
General which is satisfactory to the Association. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that AVDA would ensure that: (a) separate
accounts for the project would continue to be maintained in a manner
satisfactory to IDA; (b) AVDA and project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) within six
months of the close of financial year, certified copies of the audited
financial statements and the auditors report thereon would be forwarded
to IDA (Project Agreement, Section 4.01 and 4.02).
Project Execution
60.       The Ministry of Agriculture, acting through its subsidiary
agencies, would have general responsibility for all aspects of project
development. The Valleys Agricultural Development Authority (para 34),
which oversees the development of all river valleys in Ethiopia, has
delegated overall responsibility for the administration and development
of the natural resources of the Awash Valley to its sub-entity, the
AVDA, which would be immediately responsible for the major part of
project implementation. An Amibara Project Office has been established
within AVDA, a qualified. Ethiopian Project Executive Director has been
recruited to head this office, and recruitment of key staff is now under-
way. A Project Coordinating Committee has also been established within
AVDA to advise the Executive Director with regard to technical details
of project implementation and to consider certain overall policy issues.
The State Farm Development Authority has been designated the operator
of all large scale state farms in the Awash Valley, and would operate
the four new farms (para 52) of the project; since 1975 it has been
operating the former concessionaire farms immediately downstream from
the project area.



- 22 -
61.       To strengthen AVDA's financial autonomy to enable it to act
as an autonomous development agency capable of project implementation,
the Government would allow AVDA sufficient financial independence to
carry out its duties effectively. In the first week of each fiscal
quarter, AVDA would receive the budgetary funds allocated to it for
the quarter. In order to provide AVDA with flexibility in carrying out
its operations, assurances were obtained that transfer of funds from
one activity to another in AVDA's budget would be permitted as necessary
to facilitate the smooth implementation of the project (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
Water Supply
62.       In order that the project would receive adequate provision
of water, assurances have been obtained from the Borrower that the flow
of water in the Awash River would not be depleted below the minimum
requirements for the Project (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).
On its part, AVDA has undertaken to: (i) carry out a continuous survey
of irrigated areas and water diversion requirements for purposes of
irrigation throughout the Awash Valley and, on the basis thereof, establish
in advance monthly estimates of such diversion requirements; (ii) establish
a monitoring system and install water recording gauges on all major diver-
sions on the Awash River to ensure efficient use of available water flows
(Project Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)).
Agricultural Production
63.       Cotton is at present the main crop in the Awash Valley, and
is expected to be the predominant crop for the foreseeable future in the
Project area. At full development total incremental seed cotton production
from the four state farms and new settlement areas would reach almost
22,000 tons per annum. Irrigated land would be phased into production
at an increasing rate, over a four year period, beginning in the fourth
year of the project. Rotations with oilseed, grain and/or legume crops
may be introduced in order to maintain soil fertility. In addition to
producing cotton, the new settlement areas are expected to produce 420
tons of maize and 60 tons of beans per annum, mostly for home consumption.
The MAESCO farm currently produces bananas and sweet peppers mostly for
export. However, the value of MAESCO's production and of that on other
land already developed has not been included in the benefits ascribed
to the project, although the cost of converting these areas from pump to
gravity irrigation has been included.



- 23 -
64.       AVDA would collect charges from settlers and state farms in
order to obtain revenues at least sufficient to cover all of its operating,
maintenance and administrative costs relating to the irrigation facilities
included in the project. In addition, it will recover the investment
cost of these facilities, taking into account the relationship of the
investment recovery rate of settlers' and state farms' production incen-
tives and capacity to pay. The adequacy of these charges would be
reviewed periodically in consultation with the Association (Project
Agreement, Section 3.02). To this end it has been assumed that settlers
and state farms would pay within one year after land is irrigable, an
annual operation and maintenance charge of not less than Birr 95 per
ha to cover the cost of operating and maintaining the irrigation scheme.
In addition, it is assumed that an annual water/land charge of not less
than Birr 200 per ha for settlers and Birr 800 per ha for state farms
would be collected from the beginning of the fourth year i.e. at full
development, following the introduction of irrigation. The revenue
from the above charges would recover all Project costs at about 7%
over 50 years.
65.       Under existing legislation, (i) income tax would be levied
at a rate of 10% on settlers with a net annual income over Birr 1,200
but not exceeding Birr 3,000 and at a rate of 70% on state farms
whose net annual income is expected to be above Birr 33,000; (ii) land
tax would be levied at a rate of Birr 4 per ha for settlers and
Birr 2 per ha for state farms. Government's incremental cash flow
from the project in constant terms would then approximate Birr 230
million (US$110 million equivalent) over the estimated life of the
project.
Economic Benefits
66.       The major benefits from the project would be the opening of
the Middle Awash Valley, one of Ethiopia's most promising agricultural
areas, for commercial farming; better employment for the rural population
of the area (about 4,000 settlers and 12,000 workers); settlers per
capita income would increase, at full development from Birr 60 to
Birr 420 and full time workers would earn about Birr 500 annually; and
foreign exchange earnings from the export of cotton. The potential
for export of cotton is good and the prospects for the export of
other high value agricultural products clearly exists. Although other
crops with higher value are being grown successfully in the project
area, the project analysis was made on the basis of cotton production
alone.
67.       The overall economic rate of return for the project over
50 years would be 13%. The project would not be particularly sensitive



- 24 -
to changes in the basic parameters. An increase in project costs
by 20% would reduce the rate of return to 11.1%, while a decrease in
production, yields or prices by 20% would reduce it to 8.9%. A delay
in project benefits by one year would reduce the rate of return to
11.5%.
Risk
68.       The principal risk in the implementation of the physical
aspects of the project would be the uncertain political situation for
contractors who would be involved in the project. However, local
contractor interest in competititve bidding has so far been keen. The
irrigation system is a relatively simple one and no difficulties are
foreseen in its construction. Final designs have been completed and
the tender documents prepared. Furthermore, both the construction and
operation of the irrigation system will be supervised by a firm of
consultants who have been working with AVDA for the past four years.
Likewise, the settlement scheme is not expected to encounter any problems
which would be severe enough to prejudice its success.
69.       AVDA has been working with the Afar people in this area for
many years, and some 500 families have already been settled and are
actively engaged in crop cultivation. Given the experience in the area
and the wide acceptance of this program by the Afar people, the settle-
ment of the remaining 320 families should proceed as expected. The
risks associated with the development of four new state farms would be
minimized by the availability within the State Farms Development Authority
of a number of field personnel experienced in large-scale crop cultivation
in the Awash Valley. The Authority has retained the services of the
former owners of several large private farms in this area. These people
would provide the experienced managerial skills necessary to the profitable
operation of the new farms and to the training of new personnel. In summary,
given the proven agronomic potential of the area, and the experience already
accumulated, the risks to the revised project are not as great as would
normally arise in a combined settlement and state farm irrigation project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and AVDA,
the recommendation of the Committee provided for under Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution
approving the proposed development credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 25 -
71.       An additional condition to the effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement is that Government has signed the respective
financing agreements with the other financing agencies and that
conditions of effectiveness under these loans or agreements had been
met (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 28, 1977






1g f4 pagea
TAKLE 3A
ETHIOPIA              - SCINL tISE     TORS OATA SHEET
LASS  AMA ITOUNJRU$                                                --    ----
ETHIOPIA                               REFERENCE COUN4TRIES (1970)
TOTAL       1221.9                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       768.6                         1960       1910     ESTIMAT*              AWALTA        aJZi        mAz"
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         40.0        10.0      100.0                 70.0            ..       140.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION CMID-YR, MILLION)               20.0       24.6        27.9                  2.8         14.0         11.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           18.0       20.0        23.0                  4.0          6.0         19.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            29.0       3.3.0       33.0                   .         46.0         206A.
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE C/THOU. AV)             51.2       50.3        49.4                47.7         48.9         49.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE I/THOU,AVI              32.9       26.7        25.8                 23.8        20.2         17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/HOU)            84.0/         ..           .                    .            .5.0~
LIFE EXPEC-TANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)          33.5       38.5        41.0                38.5         41.6         47.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .         2.9         2.9                  3.0          3.4          3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CXI
TOTAL                                     1.6        2.1         2.5                  2.4          2.2&         3.1
URBAN                                      ..        9.9j&       6.5                  6.1          5.5          6.5
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)               6 . 4.      9.7       11.3                 25.6         11.8          9.9
AGE STRUCTURE C(PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          43.1        43.0        43.6                46.5         45.0         48.4
15 TO 64 YFARS                          54.3        54.3        53.7                 51.8        52.0         48.0
85 YEARS AND OVER                         2.6        2. 7        2.1                  1.9          3.0          3.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.8         0.8        0.9                  0.9          0.9          1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     ..                   1.2&                 1.24         1. 5/4       1.11b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)               .           .          .                     ..                    66.1
USERS CX OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 .           .          .
EMPLOYMENT
TOiTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND) I.                               10200.0Oa             1100.0      4500.0       5100.0 /
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE Cl)             88.0        85.0         .                  82.0         80.0         90.0 /
UNEMPLOYED CX OF LABORt FORCE)                .          ..         .                  2O.0OA
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST    5X OF HOUSEHOLDS                .            .         .                     ..                     20.2 /
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..                    .                     .        49.2/        52.6
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  ..                    ...                              5.171        3.97.
LOWEST   401 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 .                       ..                             14./         117/
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS                 .            .         .
1 OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS               .            .         .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               88910.0     73300.0     69220.0k            21420.0      14200.0       7810.0t'
POPULATION PER NUJRSING PERSON               ..    260          28.0~ 2004                       17.            1000
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              3000.0     2980.0      3080.01j              580.0        9300/        70.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF 
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREM4ENTS)            88.0       92.0        93.q/&               77.0         91.0        101.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 66.0        69.0        72.65/               57.0        63.0          71.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            24.0/4      25.0          .                 27.0/4       24. O/       29.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                  .            .         .
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            6.0       180         19.                  10.0         33.0        64.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          1.         40           .0/4406.                                       ./
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
CFlikST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0        12.0        12.0                 12.0         12.0         13.0
VOCAT tONAL ENROLLMENT
Ct OF SECONDARY)                        20.0         4.0         3.0                   .           1.0          2.0Oa
ADULT LITERACY RATE CE)                      ..          *          .0                    .         15.0         30.0
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOM IURBAN)                    2.7/j        ..          .                    .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (2)                                                                                   36 ..  .
ACCESS TO ELECtRICITY
Cl OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    5S.Ofj        .           .                    .         26.OL"A
RtStAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY Cl)                         .           .          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS CPER THOU POP)              4.0         8.0        7.0                 18.0           .          46.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                ./         2.0        2:0%                 2.           2.0          9.0
ELECTRtICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)               5.0 o     21.0        25.U                 10.0           .          66.0
NEWSPRINT CKG/YR PER CAP)                     .         0k          0.03                0.2          0.2          0.5
------------------------   ~-                                          - --- --- ---  --
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVE-RSE



Page 2 of L. pages
Unlearn otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 19,70 betseen 1968 and 1970, and for tost Recent gstmAate betuse
1973 and 1975.
-e Kenya has been selected as en objective country because it is a neighbering developing country eceowhet fu~rther up the incom-e sale than Ethiopia
with sel.lar ecologlcal conditions.
ETUOPIA               1960     /a  1963;    A   1965;     A   1961-63;     /d  Addis Ababa only;      /a  Data refer to bousbol.d,u.
197   /  1965-701    Ab   Includingsiwss
MOST BRUNT flTTfl    sZ     La  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 years and over to total labor force;          b  of which -rura
labor force is 9 slUicn;       In  1972;    /d  Includes aidwilea;      /.  1969-n average;
jf 1971.
smw~~~u          1970    /a  Ratio of population tinder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        A   Urban only;     /c  Includingaiw     es
Td  196L-66.
Sma                   1970     /a  Under revislon;     &   Difference between, UN rat of natural increase and IBRD population growth rate tie t. dl-f-
feret cesusbase;    s  Ratio of popuLlation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor feces;         b16-8
/*  Including aiwveal;           GOvernment only;     La  196h-661     a~ Data refer to households;      /I   Urban only.
LUlL            ~~~~1970  /a  Regitered onlY;          Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;       ~  c  Labor
force in age group 15-59 yewar;      /d  Urban;     /a  Registered, cot all preoticing in the counhry;        4LIncluding
assistant medical offio.sro    La  Including aidaives;          Total secndary includes taeacher training at the third
R6, January 26, 1977
rINIrnE OTIS INDCATORM
Land Ares (thou ka2)                                                               Poulasition cot oursios poreoc - FPopuLtion divided by cuoher of practicing
Total -Tots1 -orecec..i.         eied     n  endj ti.ad osarl si                          sod fosa1o grodos to   on     "cr-inod   or 'cord fled' nurse, sod
Aori..- Klus tre...s  estiaste of ogricultrol ores usued tuesporsily or              aunilisry paroeue1 with traicing orr-perionoc.
perosnotly for crops, postoron, ostket b bitohen gardeno or to lie              P.osoaiMro  pot Is-piral hod - Population dioidvd by utnhbr of hospital bode
(cHew.                                                                            evoislebl  is public sod private gener.   an .d specialiced hoepocol and
rehabilitation c          -cr . ncldec coreitg boss sod ostablleh-oci  for
GNP per tppits fill) - GNP por c.pito sedtei.eo oc O-rrnt c nrbot pricc              cutodial cod pro-eni-s care.
cslcuscted by sane covo..roon    nihod so World loch Atlso  (1973-75            Per capit. suoly of oscis       % of reuoieroentn) - Couputed frou, .orgy
hasie), 1960, 1970 and 1971 dots.                                                 oqoto-Iet of net food supplies ovalIable in contey per c-purs por da.-
available soppile   ctspriue d-untic production, ioports Ieecooporcs.
Poculation sod vital statistiCS                                                      sod changes in crock. cot supplios eoclode aetiaI feed      seedse qosori-
Pspolotion fold-yr-   illioc) - As of July firet.    if cot ...aiblabi,              ties used in food prneossing and Iu-- in disiributinice      reqeitr...nie
-eroge of co    end- y-r as-ti-t-, 1960, 1970 and 1975 dots,                      worn esthoated hy FAO base.d on phyntologicol oceds for     orn. l activity
and health run.uiderieg onoiro-ntnIi tonpnnrure, body weIghts.       g    n sd
Population density - cot square lk   - Mlid-ynsr Ppoplation pot squaro bil-          eon distrihurione of popuisticn, sod al11sslg lOT. for .uste it bose-
-otar (100 h-ctaes) of toca1 ore                                                   holId monl.
Popolation dAnnuity - nor square Its of agric. land - Conpoted so shove for        Per cspita supply of Prrntei   (crass per day) - Protei      ntotent of per
agiotrlelnd only.                                                          caPit. set supply of food per day; nor supply of food is defined as
Viral statistics                                                                      shoe, r-qairen-ots for all -notrins .stblisbod by tOgDA Econneic
Crud. birth r.                                                  R .... r.~~~~~~~~teuanh lerico  provide for o nininsc  ai1osanc  of 60 grooss of totaf
Crdebit  ro e o  th-os -d, -nrao   - Acn-a1 lice births pnr thou..and         protein per day, and 20 grasn   of acisal sod puise protein, of which
of nid-y-ar populonoo; tnn-yesr srithnnt-c     --rg-n ending ic 1960 sod            10 grono shcssd he .eina1 pretnin, those etand-rd     are lose.r than chose
1970, and fire-year aversic endIng      1971 for moa t recen.t esti-at,            of 75 grsas  of total proteic and 23 crass of animal protein su -0
Crude death rat crrhasussd. -srs-          AunoulI doatha per ibooso.nd of nid-       4Wrag    for rho wurld, propound EhyPrsn in rho Third World food Sorny.
peer pouain_osyu             r   thec    -vr g-~ ending in 1960 and 1970 g,,d                                         1  esuI, s.s     Prnorso -t,rry vf foes
t-y-pera..rongo nndfig en 1975 for .stou     reent n-t-te.                     ,.,IJiiasiirsa              and phie -I gras    p-Ttfay
fsfsur ortalit rate /thou) ..Annua  deatsh of Infots od-r eon. yesr uf           rt    /thoo   a en- I-b - Annual deaths per thoo...od in ufe grou.p
egf::.o pr thoossd line birthls,                                                     - yearn, tc nbildr-o in this ago group, suggected aanidic-ter of
Lie Ponan. v   rY- birth fYro) - Averag  osaber of y-as of lifn re-naing          na1ntritton
at birth, esually five-year --nrgeu ending in 1960. 1970 and 1975 for
developing ononire                                                             Edu..ation
Cross reproduction rate - Average nonber of live daugshterossccsen will             Adjusted ocrclnent recic - pri.ry -choo1 - toro11ecit of all age-a
ber in he r norma   reproductive period if shesprsue         presen   ege-         p-eretcgo of priosry school-geg    ppupsltion, in-iudne rhtldre- aged
pofIc fortulity rates, o-oly five-ye ar averages cending in 1960,              6-11 yearn but odj-sced for differ-ot feuftbo of privary ou        sn
1977 sod 1975 foe deonlopiog conrefor coontries with universal educa.tion, eoro11nent cay enceed 1007,
Popuiation grawib rats    )-tot      - Caspound sonusl grcwtb raeis of sid-           since n-   pupils ace helm. yr above the officisi school age.
yea    ouaion for 1950-60, t'1960)-70 end 1970-~75.r                            Adjustled onaiu   arrtiu    nosns)erpd   shoo,l -eCatputod as shov,
Populartion grow1:th race _I -cbso- C_atuprd liegrwhatvfoi                            seodry eduostion reqsi-e        t mat fou    yer    uf epprued pri,ary
popuistion, different definitions of    rbon areas may   ffect nopara-              iastrutrion, provides g-n-s1, -octions1 or teacher training
hility of dais anong usuncrion.                              ~instructions for pupils of 12 Ls 17 ynars of ago, corrspondooce
Urbes pocloio (1ofrtgi) -           tisoi of urban  nto tal. popolanion,              costses arc ge..nrally eucluded.
diff.erentdefinition.oef urbo     raros  nay affect c-parability of data                fsbyn cr.      vi.d.f    tr ond seod levels) - Total yosrs of
onn "osire.                                                               s1IIosling     , ,etscodary level, voostrIoe   ieet-otln may ho pa-
se srutue eru    s -. t Children (0-14 years), corbing-ege (15-64 y-sr),         nat      rcnIetely ..ucioded.
and retired (80 yearn and over)sn percentages of old-year population.           Vosationel esrol1nestCLf%  of scodry) - Occetionsi institutions
Aee dependeney ratie  - Rstic of popo1ation under 15 and 61 end over to               include t-choi-1, industrial or other p-rogam      which operate
those of egos 15 througsh 64.                                                      Independently or as daparnunts of secondery inotitutinen..
Ecanonic depende..cy rsstio  - tartso of population under 15 and 65 end over         dult lieayrate Cl) - Litnrate adults (ohle to read ass) onto) as
toteiho       oc I   sheg  gropb1-64 years.                                        Percentage of totel adult population aged 15 yeero and ovnr.
P iyolnie- -ceetoro (-Inaltive.thoa) - Cuoultive osober of
ocptors of birth-nonrol device     under auspice   of notionel fasily          gas sing
plnigp     rcgr     si.ce inception.                                             Pdreen,s per reca (orben) - Averoge number of p-rsov    pn-coni
Pail osoin -g usrs      M of marid soen       -Percetages of married                coccupied c   .nveniono1 dwellings in urban ures., dwellings euc ludc
wat-on of obild-heoring age(l-      yer)wh       -s birth-control devises          non-perocet structures and unoccpied parts.
to all carried -aso   in sam    e59  group,                                     OccuPied dw  llngs without pine    ae     %   - Occupied c.ov-ociona1
deigoin urban sod rural aroo without in-rde or outs-de piped
E.cotenaeot                                                                           wtatr fscilitien as perc-tage of all occpied deselliocs
Total labor force (theo-nsd) - Econoically active peroon,       including           Access ta electricity (% of all dwellings) - Conventional s)uolliegs
sesnd forces sod   neplayed hut ...clading heu-ewOve     students, etc.,            with electricity in living qusttern ase percent of tctai dwellings in
dofinition   in vrions cotries -r not        -Paoprable,                           urbsn sod rura   aras
Labor force inaJ.    lrr     %   - igric-ltura.l labor force (in fuming,            RaralIdwe11ino conte        oeetiity Cl,          -Coputed as above for
foren, .hunting and fishing) as percents go of total labor force                   rursl dwell   S.gn ony.
unnelcyod C   of labor ferue)    g.-lncplsyed ste osoally defined us persons
who are sble sed.willing to tske s Job, out of a Job on e given day,             Comaunction
remaind our of     Job, and neebing work for a specified nininom    period       Redie re...i-sr   (per thou cup) - All types of receivers for rsdio broad-
nor .nceoding sue wee; map not be conparable betwee      c-ntrlos due to           coost to general pubIc. per thousand of pupolation, suuo
differe.nt definitions of usePlsyd and nource of dsta. e.g.' enplcy-               onlice..sad receivers in ossotriss and in ye-re when registration of
net uffi-e eretistics, snPls nurveyn, conpulsory unopleysent ineuran-e            radicoe a tons. in effect, dats for recnt years may nobet ho    -parshle
sinc    out coutries abe1inhod licensing.
Inco,ae dIstrbibution - Percntnrge of private i-ntne (both in ...sh end bind)       Pass1enger.ca    (par than  pop) - Psoenger cars canPrise nrntr oars
reevd brichest 5%, risheor 20%, poorest 20%. sod poorent 40% of                 nearing less thsn eight pars ons; eccIode-oblsc          hearses sod
heuseho1ds.                                                                        nititary vehIcl;
Electricity (bob/r npcr      j   Annual -osuption of induetria1, c-
Dierributdio sf.lend ownrship - Per.eesisges of lsnd awnd by wesithiest               miaril, public and private eletricity in kilsatt bourn per copits
I0  so pan  rat 10% of lssd atonrs                                                 ges..rally based as prodnotion dais, without ai11wsnce for Ilos.e. in
gridn but showin for ;inporro and ecpsrts of electricity.
gsth an ntritionOsost(k/rPrcn                                                                                 - Per caPita -snu-I coneoptio     in kilograma
PoltioM coo- olSyocis   - PepeIation divided by number of precticing                estnasted frus donenic production plus nor iaperts of nwnpritr.



AEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPlNT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual        Estimated   Proected      1965-   1973-  1975-   1980-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/        1973   1974    1975    1976   ISW     1YM3    1973    1975    1980   1985    1973    1975    1980
Annual Data    at 1967-1969- rices & Exchange Rates Averase Annual Grovth Rates   As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestie Product     1906.8  1933.8  1945.7  2004.1  2397.1  2933.9  4.1     2.3     4.0    4.1    98.1    99.4    98.5
Gains from Terms of Trade (+) 37.3   27.0   10. j    8.6    36.8   30.8                                   1.9     0 6     1.5
Gross Dometic Income       1944.1  1960.8  1956.4  2012.7  2433.9  2964.7  3.9     3.0     4.0    4.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)         194.0   198.9  223.6   201.9   336.0  407.4   -3.2    29.2     4.2    3.9    10.0    11.4    13.8
Exports " (import capacitY) -244 1 -2Du   -184.1 -192.1 -261.7 -309.7      1.6     4;7     3.0     3.4  -12.5    -9.4   -10.8
Resource Gap                -50.0   -8.2    39.5     9.8    74.3    97      .       ,7                   -2.5     2.0     3.1
Conaumption Expenditures   1680.6  1763.2  1805.3  1829.5  2206.7  2690.2  3.5     6.4     3.6     4.0   86.4    92,2    90.7
Investment " (incl.         213.5  189.4   190.6   183.2   301.5  372.2    2.1    -2.6     8.3    4.3    10.9     9.7    12.4
Domestic Savings            263.5   197.7  151.1   173.4   227.3   274.5   6.9   -22.1     8.0     3.8   13.5     7.7     9.3
National Savings            267.7  220.3   166.2   213.8   229.7   264.7   6.1   -18.1     5.7     2.9   13.7     8.4     9.4
IMCHADISE TRADE 2/                  Annual Data at Current Prices                                         As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods            65.3    48.1   44.6    55.8   103.2                                           30.0    13.2    17.2
Fuels                    21.6    58.0    63.2   71.6   117.6                                            10.0   18.6    19.7
Intermediate Coode       56.7    77.8   91.4   100.6   158.2                                           26.0    27.0    26.4
consusmption Goods       74.2   111.6  139.7   148.9   219.4                                           34.0    41.2    36.7
Total Merch. Imports    217.8   295.5   338.9  377.0   598.4                                           100.0  100.0   100.0
(cif)
Exports
Primary Products        187.5   195.7  164.6   260.8   267.4                                           78.1    68.6    67.2
Manufactured Goods       52.6    80.1   75.5    82.0   130.4                                           21.9    31.4    32.8
Total Marcb. ExPorts    240.1     5.    240.1  342.8   397.8                                          100.0   100.0   100.0
(fob)
Tourism & Border Trade   ..
Merchandise Trade Indices              Average 196R-69 = 100
Export Price Index      165.37  206.76  195.27 212.40  254.13  340.73
Import Price Index      140.09  179.77  183.86 195.80  218.37  306.88
Terms of Trade Ind"     118.05  115.02  106.20 130.84  116.37  111.03
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR It  Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates Average Annual Growth Rates  As Percent of Total
Agriculture                890.8   885.9  868.7   896.8  1175.6  1415.2    ..      0.4    3.    3.9   50.4    48.4    48.3
Industry and Mining        293.8   292.2  287.8   280.1   401.6  496.1             2.9    4.3   4.4    16.7    16.0    16.5
Ser-vices                  579.9   612.0  638.4   672.2   856.7  1053.5     .      5.4    b31    4.3   32.9    35.6    35.2
Total                     1764.4  1790.0  1795.0  1849.1  2397.1  2933.9   *-      23     4.0   4.    1       1       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE (Millionsl' 1972/73   1973/74   1974/75      1975/76 1/   1976/77-/                       As Percent of GDP
of Birr) (Central                                                                                   1973/74  1975/763!
Government)
Current Receipts            556.8      618.9     711.4      793.9        844.9                          11.2   13.4
Current Expenditures        476.7      529.5     737.8      858.8         927.1                          9.6   14.4
Budgetary Savings            80.1      89.4      -26.4      -64.9         -82.2                           1.7  -1.1     .
Other Public Sector
Public Sector Investment    129.9      134.3     192.4      248.7        424.9                            2.4   4.2
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS 1/
(As 7 Total Current Expend)
Actual          Prelim.     Est.
1973/74   1974/75  1975/76     1976/7 at
Education                    20.4      18.9     16.8        19.4.
Other Social Services         7.4      8.5       6.3         8.3
Agriculture                   2.8      3.3       3.7         3.8
Other Economic Services      10.9      11.8      7.1         8.0
Administration & Defense     49.7     48.6      56.5        47.6
Other                         8.8      8.9       9.6        12.9
Total Current Expenditures  100.0    100.0    T10.0        100.0
1965-   1973-   1975-  1980-
SELECTED INDICATORS 1/              1973   1975    1980    1985
(Calculated from 3-year
averaged data)
Average ICOR                         3.2    4.7     3.0     3.1
Import Elasticity                   -0.8   11.2     1.1     1.0
Marginal National gavings Rate       0.2   -1.0     0.1     0.1
Not applicable
Not available
1/   Ethiopian fiscal years.
2/   Calendr years.
3/   Provisional.
.j/  Budget.                                                                                       EACPIB
4/  Budget.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~April 11, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual               Estimated           Projected                       Growth Rate
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          1972    1973    1974     l9/-    1976    1977     1978    1979    1980    1985     1972-1980
Exports (incl. NFS)               246.8   341.9   372.3    342.6   420.0   444.4   475.9    519.9   571.5   950.0        11.1
Imports (incl. NFS)               236.7   271.8   357.5    414.9   486.9   525.7   590.7    659.9   733.7  1250.4        15.2
Resource Balance (X-M)             10.1    70.1    14.8    -72.3   -66.9   -81.4  -114.9   -140.0  -162.2  -299.9
Interest (Net)                     -6.1    -3.0      9.4    15.3  ) 12.0    23.3     19.8    13.5     4.8   -26.9
Direct Investment Income          -13.1   -16.9   -20.6    -29.1  )        -15.0   -12.0    -10.0   -10.0   -10.0
Workers' Remittance                  -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -          -
Current Transfers (net)            17.7    25.7    51.9     39.9    56.4    10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Balance on Current Account          8.6    75.9    55.6    -46.2           -63.1   -97.0   -126.5  -157.4  -326.9
Private Direct Investment           9.7    31.0    36.2     19.1     ..    -45.0   -45.0    -45.0     5.0      5.0
Official Capital Grants              -       -       -        -               -        -       -       -       -           -
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                    32.9    38.6    36.0     80.8     ..     86.6    78.8     86.9   181.0   383.4        23.8
-Repayments                      -13.3   -13.2   -11.5    -14.6           -18.8   -16.9    -17.0   -15.0   -29.9         0.2
Net Disbursements                  19.6    25.3     24.5    66.2     ..     67.8     61.9    69.9   166.0   353.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i.        -1.1   -13.5   -10.1     -9.4     ..                                     Actual         Eeti  ted
Change in Net Reserves            -34.1  -105.3   -88.9    -10.4    14.8                             1972    1973    1974     1975
DEBT A" DaLT "&VIQE
Publile Debt out. & iebsurseA  226.4    257.6   284.1    389.9
GRANT AND LOAN C0o*ITENTS                                                 Interest on Public Debt       8.1     8.9     9.7     11.4
Official Grants & Grant-like         -       -       -        -        Repayments on Public Debt    13.3     13.3    11.5     14.6
Total Public Debt Service    21.4     22.2    21.2    26.0
Public M&LT Loans                                                       Other Debt Service (net)       -       -       -        -
IBRD                             10.8      -       -        -        Total Debt Service (net)      21.4    22.2    21.2     26.0
IDA                              34.3    53.0    52.9       -
Other Multilateral                 -       -        -     14.2      Burden on Export Earnings (x)
Governments                      19.4    26.6     42.5    48.2
Suppliers                          -       .1       .1      .4        Public Debt Service)                       7
Financial Institutions             -      6.0       -       -         Total Debt Service )          8       6.5     5.8      7.6
Bonds                              -       -        -       -         TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.    14.0    11.4    11.5     13.0
Public Loans n.e.i.                -        -       -      7.0
Total Public M&LT Loans              85 5.7         95.6    69.8      Average Terms of Public Debt
EXTERNAL DEBT               Actual Dqbt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975      Int. as % Prior Year DO&D     3.6      3.5     3.4      3.0
Disbursed Only            Percent         Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D    5.9     5.1     4.0      3.6
World Bank                         69.4                   18.2
IDA                                73.4                   19.2        IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral                 14.2                    3.7        IBRD as % Public Debt O&D      28.3     26.2    23.4     17.8
Governments                       193.2                   50.7        IBRD as Z Public Debt Service 28.9      33.7    39.0     34.6
Suppliers                           0.6                    0.2
Financial Institutions             25.2                    6.6        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                -                      -         IDA as % Public Debt O&D       14.7     17.6    19.3     18.8
Public Debts n.e.i.                 5.4                    1.4        IDA as % Public Debt Service     1.3     2.2     2.4      2.3
Total Public M&LT Debt            381.4                  100.0
Other M&LT Debts                     -                      -
Short-term Debt (diab. only)
not applicable                                                     e   staff estimate
not available                                                      -   nil or negligible
...  not available separately                                           --  less than half the
but included in total                                                  smallest unit shown
EACPIB



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A.                         STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Amount
Loan or                                                           (US$ Million)
Credit                                                     (less cancellation)   Undis-
Number    Year    Borrower              Purpose                 Bank     IDA     bursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                                       93.3
Five credits fully disbursed                                             34.8
605-ET    1969    BTE 1/       Telecommunications IV             4.5              0.5
243-ET    1971    Ethiopia     Education II                               9.5     3.2
269-ET    1971    Ethiopia     Dairy                                      4.4     2.6
818-ET    1972    AAWSA 2/     Addis Ababa Water Supply
and Sewerage                  10.8               1.1
290-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Coffee Processing                          6.3     3.6
304-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Agricultural & Industrial
Development Bank                        11.0     0.9
332-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Highways V                                17.0     6.6
365-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Livestock II                               5.0     3.7
416-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Agricultural Minimum Package              21.0     4.5
417-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Education III                             10.0     9.4
418-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Amibara Irrigation                        17.0    15.7
453-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Telecommunications V                      21.4    15.7
485-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Drought Areas Rehabilitation              10.0     8.3
486-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Wolaita Agriculture II                    12.0     9.8
516-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Lower Adiabo                               9.5     8.5
552-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Highways VI                               32.0    19.0
553-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Education IV                              23.0    20.6
554-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Telecommunications V (2nd Tranche)        16.0    16.0
603-ET    1976    Ethiopia     Rangelands Development                    27.0    26.9
Total                                                 108.6   286.9   176.6
of which has been repaid                           39.6      0.7
Total now outstanding                                  69.0   286.2
Amount Sold                          6.0
of which has been repaid          6.0               -        -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                    69.0   286.2
Total undisbursed                                       1.6   175.0   176.6
1/ Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
2/ Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2
ETHIOPIA
B.                              STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                                  Type of              Amount
Year                  Obligor                           Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I                  Textiles     1.5      1.0       2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.                   Paper                 1.9       1.9
1968     HVA Metahara, S.C.                             Sugar       5.5      3.5       9.0
1970     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II                 Textiles     0.4      0.2       0.6
1973     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III                Textiles     1.5      0.2       1.7
Total Gross Commitments                                    8.9      6.8      15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                5.7      3.1       8.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          3.2      3.7       6.9
Total Undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA 1/
Ln. No. 605 Telecommunications IV Project: US$4.5 million Loan of June 3,
1969; Date of Effectiveness: September 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to December 31, 1974, subsequently
to December 31, 1975, then to December 31, 1976, and then to
December 31, 1977.
The project is physically complete. However, the three
microwave routes, though carrying commercial calls, have not yet been
finally accepted because of some component failures. US$0.45 million
still remaining is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Cr. No. 243 Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976, postponed to December 31, 1977.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily with 54
institutions completed or near completion, including the Academy of Pedagogy
and its teachers institute. Of the remaining institutions, completion of 11
is well under way. In June 1976, assistance for completion of three addi-
tional primary teacher training institutes as well as for extension of an existing
junior secondary teacher training institute have been included in the project;
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
those additions are scheduled for completion during 1977. The education
survey has been completed and technical assistance for four programs
progresses quite well. Latest project cost estimates show savings in the
credit account of iUS'C.71 million due to bilateral technical assistance.
The Government wishes to use the savings for upgrading junior to senior
secondary schools and will shortly present its detailed proposal for IDA
approval.
Cr. No. 269 Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million Credit of
August 30, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 1, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project called for the development of 350 dairy farms near
Addis Ababa and the improvement of milk marketing and processing. A total
of 41 dairy farms were provided with loans under the project; however, this
program came to a halt with the introduction of the land reform in April
1975, and lending procedures for providing long term loans to the farming
community have not as yet been formulated. It is intended that future loans
will be made to peasant associations and state farms. International tenders
have been obtained for expansion and renovation of the Addis Ababa dairy
plant, and the contract is being awarded. Milk output at the Addis Ababa
dairy plant has gone down and serious efforts are required to increase milk
supply. Government has decided to establish a new Animal and Fisheries
Development Authority and this would absorb the Dairy Development Agency.
Cr. No. 290 Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of March 20,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project was to increase Ethiopia's coffee export earnings
by improving processing methods and in particular to construct 100 coffee
washing stations, 400 km of roads, provide credit for the rehabilitation of
private coffee washing stations, fund a coffee research program and be
involved in a survey of Ethiopia's coffee economy. To date, the project has
only constructed six stations and about a half of the roads program, mainly
due to initial staffing and procurement delays and subsequently due to
political changes which made various project concepts and financing un-
workable. A September 1976 supervision mission's findings indicate that
because of significant increases in coffee prices the project remains econo-
mically and financially viable in spite of substantial cost escalations.
The Project Implementation Unit have the necessary key personnel and resources
to carry out the project with a reduced target of about 58 coffee washing
stations, but the closing date requires a 12 months' extension to December 31,
1978. The balance of IDA funds will be sufficient for this purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 818 Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$10.8 million
Loan of May 2, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: September 8, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The water supply component is substantially complete, ahead of
schedule and of good quality, disbursements for this component are expected
to continue until the closing date. Financing of the first phase of the
sewerage component has been facilitated by a supplementary loan from the
ADF equivalent to US$5.5 million and by a Government loan equivalent to
US$2 million. Completion is expected by March, 1978, 15 months behind
schedule. Financial and management problems are aggravated by the country's
political climate.  Lack of progress in revising    tariff is due to AAWSA's
delay in submitting a tariff proposal to the Government, as well as the
Government's reluctance to consider tariff increases. Government action on a sub-
stantial tariff increase is being urged by the Bank.
Cr. No. 304 Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US$11.0
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: October
25, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976, postponed to
December 31, 1977.
The funds provided by the credit have been almost fully committed,
including the reallocation of $1.4 million to the industrial portion from the
agricultural portion which has proceeded more slowly. An additional $1.5
million of the agricultural portion has been redesignated to finance an
Emergency Tractor Ploughing and Seed Distribution Program. The World Bank
has recently signed a Project Agreement as Executing Agency for a UNDP project
to provide a financial advisor to AIDB for two years to advise in the planning,
organization and control of its financial operations.
Cr. No. 332 Fifth Highway Project; US$17.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 24, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976, postponed to December 31, 1977.
Three of the four roads under the Fifth Project have been completed,
one by a domestic contractor assisted under the project, and the fourth is
expected to be completed by end 1977, all within the contract prices. Other
project components have been or are being satisfactorily implemented.
Cr. No. 365 Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit of April 2, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1973; Closing Date: July 15,
1977.
The project has been effective for over three years but has not
yet completed its first year construction program. However, the construction
program has recently been stepped up, and marketing and abattoir operations
are scheduled to commence by end-1976. The project faces managerial problems
and future operations may suffer unless management is soon strengthened.
Because of cost overruns, the scope of the project has been reduced, and
available funds are expected to be exhausted by end-1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 416  Agricultural Minimulm Package Project:  US$21.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977.
The project lost some of its momentum during the 1975/76 growing
season as a consequence of staff turnover in ECODD, some management problems,
continuing ramifications of the land reform and general unrest in several
provinces. The flow of information from the extension areas to Addis Ababa
has also suffered. Although adequate fertilizer for the 1975,/76 growing
season was made available to ECODD marketing centers, the extent of actual
sales to farmers is not known. Similarly, 1975/76 data on credit recovery,
yields and production and future fertilizer requirements have not been
clearly determined. About 100 junior staff positions are still vacant in
ECODD. However, road and storage construction has started as well as other
activities such as soil conservation, livestock improvement, horticulture
and home economic programs, all of which are progressing well. Due to
high fertilizer costs, disbursements are ahead of schedule and are expected
to be complete by the closing date.
Cr. No. 417 Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After initial delays, project implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily. Most civil works are scheduled for completion by early to
mid-1977. Consequently disbursements are expected to rise rapidly in the
near future. Government has requested deletion of the Orthodox Church
Training Center and proposes substitution of 180 community skill training
centers as part of its rural development program; this request was favorably
endorsed during appraisal of a proposed fifth education project. Preparation
of furniture and equipment lists, tender and contract documents is complete.
Technical assistance programs and fellowship for the AHI are being implemented
satisfactorily. The Government is providing adequate financing and final
total project cost may remain within the appraisal estimate including
contingencies.
Cr. No. 418 Amibara Irrigation Project; US$17.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness; August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
Initially 14 months delay in credit effectiveness was wair-ly caused by
a delay in parliamentary ratification of the credit. Meanwhile, project
consultants estimated a 3-4 times increase in project cogts, ard questions
were raised whether the project was still financially feasible and economically
viable. Consultants prepared alternative proposals, and an IDA mission
visited Ethiopia in February 1975 to examine the alternative ways cf
constructing project works and implementing the project. A basic gravity
irrigation scheme was chosen and reappraised in February 1976. A supple-
mental financing plan of US$34 million has been arranged with Government,
IDA, African Development Fund and European Development Fund participation.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 453 Telecommunications V Project (First Tranche); US$21.4 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 23,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Following initial delays of about 6-12 months due to management
and staff changes, procurement and initial installation work, the project
has been steadily progressir.g. The Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
is now endeavoring to make up for the initial delays by accelerating the
subsequent works.
Cr. No. 485 Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Implementation of most sub-projects is underway, although seriously
behind schedule. The progress of implementation is difficult to estimate
since quarterly progress reports are not being prepared. A shortage of staff
in the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission's Finance Department is similarly
causing delays in preparation of financial statements of expenditure, which
in turn has delayed requests for disbursement. Future supervision attention
will focus on proposals for reorganization of the project's overall management
and accounting. The closing date will have to be postponed.
Cr. No. 486 Second Wolaita Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to staff unrest and difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness,
initial project implementation was slow. Some senior staff were replaced in
1975 and although the project is understaffed, it is now gaining momentum.
Despite supply problems, construction of roads and cooperative marketing center
stores is on target but other construction activities are behind schedule.
Farmers' interest in the project is growing steadily with 140 Peasant
Associations out of the 273 in the Wolaita Awraja involved in the project. Farm
inputs supplies for the 1975/76 season increased by 32% compared with 1974/75.
The livestock component is still lagging behind, mainly due to staff shortage.
Credit recovery remains low with total repayments amounting to about 60%.
Cr. No. 516 Lower Adiabo Development Project: US$9.5 million Credit of
October 18, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The security situation in the project area has deteriorated
during recent months causing the project difficulties in obtaining supplies
and preventing both ECODD extension and IDA supervision missions from
visiting the project area. Progress had previously been made with village
cooperative society formation, land use planning and farm development, but
work on building construction, borehole development, and cooperative ranch



ANNEX II
Page 8
development is not known to have started as yet. We propose to ask the
Government to set up a reporting system which, in the absence of supervision
missions, would enable us to obtain at least some information on a continuing
basis. The future of the project will be reviewed in this light in due course.
Cr. No. 552 Sixth Highway Project; US$2.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Three of the
four roads have been let to contract, with the contract prices all within
appraisal estimates; the fourth road is being constructed by force account.
Contracts for the road maintenance equipment and weighbridges have been
awarded and most of the equipment has been delivered. Plans are in hand
for the construction of rural roads workshops for the provinces of Wellega
and Illubabor.
Cr. No. 553  Fourth Education Project:   US$23.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The Project Unit is making very satisfactory progress. The
construction program is well advanced and most facilities will be completed
by mid-1977. Procurement of furniture and equipment for different project
facilities is'proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 554 Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche); US$16.0 million
Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Following initial delays of about 6-12 months due to management
and staff changes, procurement and initial installation work under the project
has been steadily progressing. The Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
is now endeavoring to make up for the initial delays by accelerating the sub-
sequent works.
Cr. No. 603 Rangelands Development Project: US$27.0 million Credit of
January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is somewhat behind schedule. However, most key
staff have been recruited and tenders for the construction of Project Head-
quarters buildings in two of the three rangeland areas are being prepared.
Some vehicles have been purchased. A road and stockpond construction program
using non-project funds made good progress in the Southern Rangelands project
area but has had to be stopped because of deteriorating law and order. There
are some indications however, that security is being restored in the South
and the Project can operate freely in the Jijiga area and in the central part
of North East Rangelands. Veterinary staff have been recruited in two areas



ANNEX II
Page 9
and discussions are being held with pastoralists regarding their organizational
role in the development. Some delay is inevitable during the ongoing reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture and its associated institutions. This is not
expected however to seriously affect Project implementation.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA - REVIS±D AMIbAkA iRRIGAliuA i?ROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            Ethiopia
BENEFICIARY:         Awash Valley Development Agency (AVDA)
AMOU'NT:             US$25.0 million equivalent.   These funds would replace
Credit 418-ET in the amount of $17.0 million which
would be cancelled.
RELENDING:            6% for 50 years, including 8 years grace on interest
and principle.
PURPOSE:             To provide supplemental finance for implementation
of a revised version of the original Amibara
Irrigation Project (Cr. 418). The project would
assist the development of irrigated agriculture
in the Middle Awash Valley.
PROJECT               The Project would provide gravity irrigation for about
DESCRIPTION:          10,300 ha.  It would include settlement of some 320
Afar families (about 1,600 people) on 800 ha; the
development of four state farms; the construction of
Project Headquarters, workshop, stores, staff housing
and related facilities for all portions of the develop-
ment; and the purchase for AVDA of operation and main-
tenance equipment, including vehicles. Works to be
constructed under the project include:
(a) a diversion weir on the Awash River;
(b) irrigation and drainage networks to serve
a total of 10,300 ha;
(c) flood protection dykes;
(d) roads along the main canals and drains;
(e) Project Headquarters and related facilities;
(f) on-farm development for the establishment of
four state farms and for 800 ha of settlement area;
(g) technical assistance including engineering super-
vision and recruitment of technical personnel; and
(h) institution of environmental controls.



ANNEX III
Page 2
ESTIMATED COST:                Total Project cost (excluding $4.55 million of
duties and taxes) of which $1.8 million has
already been spent under the original project.
Estimated foreign exchange requirements are
$30.3 million, or 53%.
(US$ Million)
Local         Foreign         Total
Irrigation and Drainage                   5.2           6.1           11.3
Roads                                     2.1           2.3            4.4
Project H.Q. and Settlement               1.8            1.5           3.3
State Farms                               5.7           4.6           10.4
Technical Assistance                      1.3           5.1            6.4
Environmental Controls                    0.1           0.1            0.2
Total Base Cost                          16.3          19.7           36.0
Contingencies:  Physical (13%)            2.5            2.3           4.8
Price (44%)               7.7           8.3           16.0
Total Project Cost                       26.5          30.3           56.8
FINANCING PLAN:                                (US$ Million)
Original         New
Project        Proiect        %
IDA                   17.0          25.0          44
Government             5.8           9.4          16
EEC                     -           16.9          30
ADF                                  5.5          10
Total                 22.8          56.8         100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:             IDA            (US$ Million)
Fiscal Year            Annual          Cumulative
Prior to 1977            1.3               1.3
1977                 0.4               1.7
1978                 2.0               3.7
1979                 2.8               6.5
1980                 4.9              11.4
1981                 6.5              17.9
1982                 4.0              21.9
1983                 2.0              23.9
1984                 1.1              25.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:
Contracts for all civil works to be financed
by IDA (construction of the weir, main canal,
main drain, distribution network, eastern flood
dyke and all roads), would be on the basis
of international competitive bidding in
accordance with World Bank guidelines. Buildings
and housing at Project Headquarters, of which
IDA's share would be about $400,000 including
contingencies, would be constructed after local
competitive bidding.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                  (a)  A consultant  firm would be responsible for
engineering design, procurement of civil
works contracts, supervision of construction
and establishment of operation, maintenance
and extension services.
(b) The consultant firm would over seven years
provide     nine key staff, including a
Project Manager, and would train qualified
Ethiopian counterparts.
ECONOMIC:
RATE OF RETURN:                        13%
APPRAISAL REPORT:                      Report No. 1337-ET dated April 20, 1977
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division



ANNEX IV
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
REVISED AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time -taken to prepare project: about two years
(b) Preparation by: AVDA's consultants, employed under original project
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: early 1974
(d) First Bank Mission: February 1975
(e) Appraisal Mission departure: January 1976
(f) Negotiations: March 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: August 31, 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Should additional water-table control facilities be
required to be installed in the project area, the
Government would make available to AVDA the funds
needed to meet the costs of installation (para 48).
(b) Adequate agricultural credit would be provided on
reasonable terms to settlers in the project area (para 52).
(c) Adequate medical, sanitary, training and other social
services would be established and maintained in the
project area (para 54).
(d) The proceeds of the credit would be relent to AVDA at
6% p.a. for fifty years, including eight years grace
on principal and interest (para 56).
(e) On the date of credit effectiveness, the Association
would withdraw from the credit account and repay to
itself the amount of Credit 418 withdrawn and outstanding
as of that date, including all unpaid charges thereon; the
unwithdrawn balance of Credit 418 would be cancelled as
of the same date (para 58).



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(f) The Government's contribution to project costs would be made
available to AVDA in the first week of each fiscal quarter;
appropriate arrangements would be made to ensure the trans-
ferability of these funds among various AVDA budget items as
required (para 61).
(g) The flow of water in the Awash River would not be depleted
below the minimum requirements of the project (para 62).
(h) The Government has signed the respective loan agreements with
the African Development Fund and the European Development
Fund (Condition of Effectiveness, para 56).
(i) AVDA would monitor ground water levels in the project area
to ascertain whether water table control facilities would
need to be installed (para 48).
(j) AVDA would continue to construct deep water wells adequate
to support livestock relocated from the project area (para 52).
(k) AVDA would establish a monitoring system of Awash River Valley
irrigation requirements and water flows (para 62).
(1) AVDA would collect charges from settlers and state farms
sufficient to cover all operating, maintenance and administrative
costs relating to irrigation facilities, as well as to recover
the investment costs of these facilities in accordance with
the settlers' and state farms' production incentives and
capacity to pay (para 64).



IBRD 10313R1
ETHIOPIA                                                                           APRIL 1977
REVISED AMIBARA
IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                            *
°4<ts X  Project area
seesee    Future main canals
Existing canals                                                                      #0'
---      Future main drains                          Q      Awash                       -
---      Existing drains 
w_6"niii  Flood protection works                                                    AY
Roads
>-+    Airstrip
Township area
Railways                                           Existing
International boundaries  \X                      se
II-  ~~~        Forms 
0~~~~~~~~~.
0~ 2                          8               au 8    .                      &
KILOMETERS                ,  . m++>°t            t       t 
0      2           4      6    5     JiAV/a1                     z    N                                          b
I 2Melka Ware
MILES                            ICResearCh
MAEX SC
pump station   _2    Ai](;    MAESC0          /OW                            e                 washStstion"a.
iS  w  y t~~~ de w e lo p ment   /<>                        o~~~~ \'Awosh Dams Iland if
* /E 7HI0                                        PIAsm-
approx.  300 ha .     . s. >_ _ y , 7   5     0                    A        L   Db1
~~-Me Ika Sad  The boondarie.s shoo,n on this map dorenoof ma
(310           ~~~~diversion weir  imply endorsement or acceptance by the  . 'e - SOMALiA
10                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank and its affiliates         7-



