. 7 7-<.~
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 707 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Revised Amibara Irrigation Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 7, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 707 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 7, 1977, between ETHIOPIA (herein-
after called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCI-
ATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a development credit agreement
(Amibara Irrigation Project) dated July 5, 1973, between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the 1973 Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend a development
credit (Credit No. 418 ET, hereinafter called the 1973 Credit) in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000) to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth in the 1973 Credit Agreement;
(B) supplemental financing to cover the estimated increase
in the .ost of carrying out the project described in Schedule 2
to the 1973 Credit Agreement as well as certain modifications of
said project and of the arrangements for its execution are now
necessary;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
part of the supplemental financing required for the project as so
modified and described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (herein-
after called the Project);
(D) the Association is willing to provide such assistance
and to consolidate the amount withdrawn and outstanding of the
1973 Credit by extending a new Credit for the Project in an amount
in various currencies increased to the equivalent of twenty five
million dollars ($25,000,000), as hereinafter provided;
(E) the Borrower has contracted from the European Economic
Community (hereinafter called EEC) a grant (hereinafter called the
EEC Grant), provided out of the resources of the European Develop-
ment Fund, in an amount equivalent to fourteen million nine
hundred ninety six thousand Units of Account of the European
Development Fund (EDF U.A. 14,996,000), to assist in financing
Parts D (i), (ii) and (iii), and E (ii) and (iii) of the Project,
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the EEC Grant Agreement) dated July 19, 1977, between the
Borrower and the EEC;
(F) the-Borrower has contracted from the African Development
Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (hereinafter called the ADF


﻿- 2 -
Loan) in an amount equivalent to five million Units of Account of
the African Development Fund (ADF U.A. 5,000,000), to assist in
financing Parts A (ii) (b), C (ii), D (iii), E (i) and (iii), and
G of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the ADF Loan Agreement) dated
March 18, 1977, between the Borrower and ADF;
(G) Parts A through D, E (ii), F and G of the Project will
be carried out by the Awash Valley Development Agency with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to said Agency the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided, and part of the EEC Grant and
the ADF Loan;
(H) part of the proceeds of the EEC Grant and of the ADF
Loan will also be made available by the Borrower for the carrying
out of Parts E (i) and (iii) of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Awash Valley Development Agency;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "AVDA" means the Awash Valley Development Agency (for-
merly the Awash Valley Authority), an agency of the Borrower
established and operating pursuant to the AVDA Regulation;
(b) "AVDA Regulation" means the Awash Valley Development
Agency Establishment Regulation No. 53/1977 of July 4, 1977,
issued pursuant to the Valleys Agricultural Development Authority
Establishment Proclamation No. 118/1977 of July 4, 1977, of the
Borrower, as such Regulation may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and AVDA, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement;
(d) "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AVDA pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(e) "Project Area" means the Amibara/Melka Sadi area des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(f) "Settler" means any inhabitant who occupies a portion of
the Project Area set aside by AVDA for purposes of Part D of the
Project;
(g) "State Farm" means the state farms to be established
in the Project Area under Part E of the Project; and
(h) "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the


﻿-4-
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
1973 Credit withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the 1973
Credit shall thereupon be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1987, and ending January 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, Parts E (i) and (iii) of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AVDA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Project
Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable AVDA to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available to AVDA the proceeds
of the Credit as well as the Borrower's contribution to the cost
of the Project, except Parts E (i) and (iii) thereof, under a
project financing agreement to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and AVDA under terms and conditions which shall have been
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association and to be
substituted for the project financing agreement dated July 10,
1974, between the Borrower and AVDA; such terms and conditions
shall include, inter alia: (i) that the proceeds of the Credit
shall be relent by the Borrower to AVDA for a term of fifty years
(including eight years of grace) from the date of this Agreement,
at an interest rate of six per cent (6%) per annum; and (ii) that
interest on such loan during the grace period shall be added to
the principal amount thereof and be repaid, thereafter, as part of
such principal amount.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project
Financing Agreement in such manner as to ensure the carrying out
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. Without any limitation to the generality of
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) not
later than in the first week of each fiscal quarter, make availa-
ble to AVDA the funds, other than the proceeds of the Credit, to
be provided by the Borrower to AVDA pursuant to the Project
Financing Agreement for such fiscal quarter; and (ii) make appro-
priate arrangements to ensure that transfers from one item of
expenditures to another in AVDA's budget will be made as required
for the prompt and efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports and work
schedules for Parts E (i) and (iii) of the Project in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progr-ss of Parts E (i) and (iii) of the Project
(including the cost thereof); (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in said Parts of the Project; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning said Parts of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. If, after the completion of the construction of
the drains included in Part A (i) of the Project, it becomes
necessary to install additional water table control facilities
in the Project Area in accordance with Section 3.0    (b) (ii) of
the Project Agreement, the Borrower hereby undertakes to make
arrangements, to be agreed with the Association, to make available
to AVDA the funds needed to meet the cost of installing such
facilities.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary, including inter alia adequate releases of
water from the Koka Dam, to ensure that the flow of water in the
Awash River is not depleted below the minimum that is required for
the Project Area as a result of any other requirements.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause adequate medical,
sanitary, training and other social services to be established and
maintained in the Project Area. Such sanitary services shall


﻿-7-
include, inter alia, the development of a domestic water supply
and a pollution control system for wastes discharged into the
Awash River.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall make appropriate arrange-
ments to ensure that Settlers in the Project Area are provided
adequately with agricultural credit facilities and extension
services.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the works and
facilities included in Part E of the Project to be operated, main-
tained and, whenever it becomes necessary, replaced in accordance
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, economic and financial
policies and practices; and (ii) provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the State Farms cooperate
with AVDA in the carrying out of Part G of the Project in respect
of the part of the Project Area cultivated by State Farms and
comply with any sanitary and environmental directives issued by
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the fallowing additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) AVDA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of AVDA under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the suspension of AVDA's opera-
tions unless arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall
have been made for the assumption and performance of all the obli-
gations of AVDA under the Project Agreement upon said suspension.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that AVDA will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Project Financing Agree-
ment.


﻿- 8 -
(d) The AVDA Regulation or the Proclamation referred to in
Section 1.02 (b) of this Agreement shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of AVDA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the EEC Grant or the ADF Loan made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the EEC Grant Agreement or the
ADF Loan Agreement, respectively; or
(B) the ADF Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such   suspension, cancellation,    termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligation
under such Agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
AVDA under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower and to AVDA; and
(b) any event specified in: (i) paragraphs (b) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement; or (ii) paragraph (e) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement, shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of AVDA
has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action;
(b) the execution of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and AVDA, respectively, has been duly
authorized by all necessary governmental and corporate action;
and
(c) all conditions, if any, precedent to initial dis-
bursements under the EEC Grant Agreement and the ADF Loan Agree-
ment, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
by, and executed on behalf of, AVDA, and is legally binding upon
AVDA in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Project Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized by, and executed on behalf of, the Borrower and AVDA,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and AVDA in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date February 6, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) (i)
of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFINANCE                         21147 MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be


﻿- 11 -
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of Americ-:,
as of the day and year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By Is/ Ato Mohammed Hamid Ibrahim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works under         14,200,000         63%
Parts A (i), A
(ii) (a), B,
C (i) and D (v)
of the Project
(2) Consultants and            7,000,000         100% of foreign
experts' services                            expenditures
(3) Refunding of              1,800,000          Amount due
1973 Credit
(4) Unallocated               2,0O0,000
TOTAL 25,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 13 -
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasona-
ble opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the development of the Amibara and
Melka Sadi plains area, situated on the Eastern (right) bank of
the Awash River in the middle Awash Valley, about 175 km East of
Addis Ababa and about 50 km downstream of the village known as
Awash Station.  The Project is designed to provide gravity irri-
gation for about 10,300 ha of which about 7,500 ha are presently
undeveloped and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection
The construction of:
(i) a diversion weir on the Awash River, irrigation
canals and drainage channels to serve the Project
Area; and
(ii) flood protection dykes: (a) along the Western edge
of the Project Area; and (b) along the Eastern
edge of the Project Area.
B.   Roads
The construction of a link road from the Project Area to the
Awash-Tendaho highway and of a graveled service road network along
the main canals and drains and an unsurfaced network along second-
ary canals in the Project Area.
C.   Project Headquarters and Management
(i) The construction of buildings for AVDA project
headquarters, including offices, a workshop,
stores, staff housing and related facilities;
(ii) the construction of AVDA field supervision facil-
ities;
(iii) initial operation and maintenance of the facilities
to be constructed under Parts A through D of the
Project; and
(iv) training of AVDA staff.


﻿- 15 -
D.   Settlement Program
Settlement of about 800 families on 2,000 ha to be developed
in the Amibara section of the Project Area, including:
(i) construction of buildings and staff housing;
(ii) on-farm development works, including field canals
and drains, land clearing, stone removal and land
leveling;
(iii) agricultural development of the settlement area,
including provision of farm machinery, equipment
and vehicles;
(iv) extension services and training for settlers; and
(v) provision of alternative grazing areas for live-
stock relocated from the Project Area, including
construction of deep wells.
E.   State Farms
Establishment of State Farms on about 3,400 ha in the Amibara
section of the Project Area, and about 3,300 ha in the Melka Sadi
section of the Project Area, including:
(i) construction of buildings and staff housing;
(ii) on-farm development works, including field canals
and drains, land clearing, stone removal and land
leveling; and
(iii) agricultural development of said areas including
provision of farm machinery, equipment and vehi-
cles.
F.   Studies
A feasibility study for a second-stage project.
G.   Health Control Measures
Control measures against schistosomiasis and other water
borne diseases in the Project Area, such as prevention of silta-
tion and of the growth of aquatic weeds.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


