Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
LOAN NUMBER 7972-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors Second  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 23, 2010 
Page  2
-2- 
 
Page  3
LOAN AGREEMENT
 
Agreement dated November 23, 2010, entered into between DOMINICAN 
REPUBLIC
 (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04.  
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Page  4
-2- 
 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000) shall be converted from the 
initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  5
-3- 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the B
orrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of, namely, that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months a
fter the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 18, 2012. 
 
Page  6
-4- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its 
Ministerio de Hacienda
.
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 
 
Tel: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  7
-5- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Roberto Saladín 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the 
Program, aimed to enhance performance of social sectors to promote human capital for 
the poor, include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through its Vice-
President’s office (acting as head of the 
Gabinete 
 
de
Coordinación de Política Social
), has issued Resolution No. 01-10, dated 
 
August 2, 2010 and Resolution No. 02-10, dated August 6, 2010, approving: (i) 
 
the regulations governing the function of the CCT Interagency Committee and 
 
CCT Intersectoral Committee; and (ii) the organizational development plan for 
 CCT 
Solidaridad 
Program (which includes the updating of the organizational 
 
structure and personnel roles in accordance with the defined processes for the 
 
implementation of the redesigned CCT 
Solidaridad 
Program), which shall be 
 
implemented by November 2011. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through its Vice-
President’s office, in a letter dated October 1, 
 
2010 has confirmed the approval (through an act of agreement from the 
Comité 
 Técnico 
Intersectorial
 dated September 30, 2010) of the Action Plan 2010-2011 
 
issued by the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program of the 
Gabinete de Coordinación de 
 Política 
Social
,
stating that, by December 2010, 90 percent of beneficiary 
 
households receiving transfers will be registered in a Primary Care Unit and/or 
 
school or have received a letter warning of potential suspension due to 
 
incompliance; and defining the procedures and timeline (beginning in January 
 
2011) for the systematic verification of co-responsibilities in education and 
 
health, with the objective of linking at least 80 percent of the transfers to the 
 
beneficiaries of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program based on the verification of co-
 responsibilities. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Education, has issued: (i) Resolution No. 
 
8, dated August 20, 2010, formalizing the introduction of learning outcome tests 
 
(with reference to Mathematics and Spanish) for students in the first cycle of 
 
basic education; and (ii) Resolution No. 6, dated August 12, 2010, establishing 
 
evaluation standards to be used both in public and private schools for students in 
 
the second cycle of basic education. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through its Vice-
President’s office (acting as head of the 
Gabinete 
 
de
Coordinación de Política Social
), has issued Resolution No. 03-10, dated 
 
August 6, 2010, instructing to adopt, by December 1, 2010, measures to improve 
 
the level of access to information for beneficiaries of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 
Program payment card, allowing said beneficiaries to be informed about: (i) the 
Page  9
-7- 
 
total amount of the cash transferred to them; and (ii) the available balance on 
 
their cards through the use of a toll-free telephone line. 
 
5. 
The Borrower through its Council of Ministries, has (a) approved the Multi-
 
Annual National Plan for the Public Sector 2010-2013 which contains the 
 
medium-term guidelines for social protection policy with projections as to the 
 
coverage, estimated budget, and financing bases, including the quantification of 
 
the service coverage gaps in education and health linked to the CCT 
Solidaridad
 
Program including: (i) initial, basic, and the first cycle of middle school 
 
education; (ii) primary health care and an increase in the enrollment in SENASA 
 
among beneficiaries of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program not covered by any social 
 
security scheme; and (iii) nutrition, including the provision of micronutrients for 
 
pregnant women and children under two years of age; and (b) submitted the draft 
 
2011
Budget Law including these cost projections to the Borrower’s Congress, as 
 
evidenced by the letter from the Ministry of Economy to the Borrower’s Vice-
 
President dated October 1, 2010, confirming the approval by the Council of 
 
Ministries, and submitting a copy of said Multi-Annual National Plan, as well as 
 
confirming the submission of the draft Budget Law to the Borrower’s Congress. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has made available: (a) sufficient resources to meet the output 
 
targets of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program that had been calculated and agreed for 
 
2010 as reflected in Article 26 of the 2010 National Budget Law and the 
Nota 
 
Técnica
 issued jointly by the Ministry of Economy, the 
Gabinete de 
 
Coordinación de Política Social 
and the Ministry of Finance in October 2010; (b) 
 
strengthened procedures to ensure the predictability in disbursement for budget 
 
users, as evidenced by Article 26 of the 2010 National Budget Law; and (c) 
 
adequate measures to monitor and publish the use of such resources, as 
 
evidenced by the resolution issued by the CCT Intersectoral Committee and 
 
dated September 20, 2010, establishing that the results of the execution of said 
 
budget are presented to the CCT Intersectoral Committee on a quarterly basis and 
 
published on the web page of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program or of the Ministries 
 
of Public Health and Education.    
 
7. 
The Borrower, through separate official letters from its Ministries of Public 
 
Health and Education, addressed to the Ministry of Economy and dated August 
 
30, 2010 and September 30, 2010 respectively, has agreed on the implementation 
 
of the institutional strengthening measures that are needed to ensure preparedness 
 
for the introduction of performance agreements for the Ministry of Public Health 
 
and the Ministry of Education. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through SESPAS (now Ministry of Public Health), has signed 
 
separate internal performance agreements (
Convenios de Gestión
)
with each of 
 
the following Borrower’s regional health services: 
Metropolitano
;
Valdesia
;
Norcentral
;
Enriquillo
;
Nordeste
;
Este
;
El Valle
;
Cibao Occidental
;
and 
Cibao 
 Central
.
Page  10
-8- 
 
9. 
The Borrower, through: (i) an internal letter issued by the Vice Minister of 
 
Treasury and dated October 1, 2010, confirmed the implementation of the 
 
Consulta Amigable
 project (to be carried out from September 2010 to June 
 
2011), which aims at creating a web-based interface to make available, over the 
 
internet, data on the national budget c
ontained in the Borrower’s integrated 
 
financial management system; and the publication (beginning on September 30, 
 
2010) on the Minister of Finance’s website (www.digepres.gob.do
)
of
monthly 
 
interim reports on the execution of the Borrower’s national budget; and (ii) an 
 
administrative agreement between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of 
 
Economy  signed on August 18, 2010, established the development of a pilot 
 
system to link budget information to performance indicators through the web-
 
based interface described in (i) herein. 
 
10. 
The CCT Intersectoral Committee has issued a resolution dated August 12, 2010, 
 
approving a pilot project to monitor the availability, and improve the 
 
accountability of, health and education inputs linked to co-responsibilities of the 
 CCT 
Solidaridad 
Program
,
through the use of “community scorecards” allowing 
 
to gather information on the services provided, which shall be implemented by 
 
April 2011, with the purpose of gradually expanding (starting in June 2011) said 
 
pilot project based on its results. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan
 
Allocated
 
(expressed in Dollars)
Single Withdrawal Tranche
 
149,625,000
 
Front-end Fee
 
375,000
 
Amount due pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT
 
150,000,000
 
Page  11
-9- 
 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
 
is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with 
 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
1. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain, an account in 
 
Dollars (Foreign Currency Deposit Account) at the Borrower’s Central Bank, on 
 
terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account; and 
 
(b)  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount 
is accounted for in the Borrower’s National Treasury, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall confirm to the Bank:  
 
(a)  
the name, number of, and the foreign currency amount received in, the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account; and 
 
(b)  
 the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the Foreign Currency 
Deposit Account, and the equivalent amounts credited to the account 
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Section. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
F. Audit.
 
1. 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  12
-10- 
 
(a) 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; and  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is November 1, 2011. 
 
Page  13
-11- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
 
Installment Share
 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
March 15, 2018
 
5.00%
 
September 15, 2018
 
5.00%
 
March 15, 2019
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2019
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2020
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2020
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2021
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2021
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2022
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2022
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2023
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2023
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2024
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2024
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2025
 
0.00%
 
September 15, 2025
 
0.00%
 
March 15, 2026
 
3.33%
 
September 15, 2026
 
3.33%
 
March 15, 2027
 
3.33%
 
September 15, 2027
 
3.33%
 
March 15, 2028
 
8.33%
 
September 15, 2028
 
8.33%
 
March 15, 2029
 
10.00%
 
September 15, 2029
 
10.00%
 
March 15, 2030
 
10.00%
 
September 15, 2030
 
10.00%
 
Page  14
-12- 
 
March 15, 2031
 
5.00%
 
September 15, 2031
 
5.00%
 
March 15, 2032
 
5.00%
 
September 15, 2032
 
5.02%
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
Page  15
-13- 
 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  16
-14- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions
1. 
“CCT Interagency Committee” means the Borrower’s permanent committee 
established pursuant to Resolution No. 02-09, dated March 12, 2009 (issued by 
the head of the Borrower’s 
Gabinete de Coordinación de Política Social
 ), which 
aims at coordinating the policies and actions developed by the 
Gabinete de 
Coordinación de Política Social
 in the social protection sector. 
 
2. 
“CCT Intersectoral Committee” means the Borrower’s permanent committee 
established pursuant to Resolution No. 01-09, dated March 12, 2009 (issued by 
the  head of the Borrower’s 
Gabinete de Coordinación de Política Social
 ), 
which aims at coordinating any initiatives in the sector of health, education and 
nutrition in connection with the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program.  
 
3. 
“CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program” means the Borrower’s conditional cash transfer 
program for poor Dominican households as part of the Borrower’s social 
protection system and created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 536-05, dated 
September 26, 2005. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group
 
Description of Item
 
112
 
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse
 
122
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
 
Page  17
-15- 
 
525
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials
 
667
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
 
718 
 
718.7
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors
 
728
 
728.43 
 
Tobacco processing 
machinery
 
897 
 
897.3
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems)
 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates)
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
5. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
II.D.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
6. “
Gabin
ete de Coordinación de Política Social
”
means the Borrower’s set of 
secretariats in charge of organizing and coordinating the Borrower’s social sector 
and social assistance programs, and governed by the Borrower’s Presidential 
Page  18
-16- 
 
Decrees No. 570-05, dated October 12, 2005, No. 1082, dated September 3, 
2004, and No. 1251, dated September 22, 2004. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated October 5, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
9. “SENASA” 
means 
Seguro Nacional de Salud
,
the Borrower’s social security 
entity. 
 
10. “SESPAS” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance.  
 
11. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  19
-17- 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  
 
