Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5920 
Operation Name 
Second Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors 
Development Policy Loan (DPL) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (25%); General education sector (25%); Other social 
services (25%); General public administration sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P121778 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Avenida México No. 45.  
Gazcue, Santo Domingo 
Dominican Republic 
Apartado Postal 1478 
Tel: (809) 687-5131  Fax: (809) 688-8838 
Date PID Prepared 
August 9, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 22, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 18, 2010 
1.
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Despite recent improvements in this decade, the Dominican Republic (DR) still faces challenges in 
ensuring access to quality education and health for most of its population, especially its poorest 
citizens. Access to pre-school and secondary school is limited (31 and 53 percent, respectively) and 
unequal, with important divergence in enrollment based on household income. In health, the 
confluence of high levels of service coverage and stubbornly high levels of maternal mortality (150 
per 100,000 deliveries in 2007) suggests substantial shortcomings in the quality of delivery of 
health services, particularly at the first level of care. Preventive interventions such as ensuring 
access to micronutrients for mothers and children remain an important challenge, particularly for 
the poorest groups. Low human capital accumulation, particularly among the poor, relative to 
comparable countries is partly a result of the scarce public resources being allocated to the crucial 
health and education sectors.  
 
The PASS Program, a three-loan series, was prepared in the context of the wave of 2009 crises 
(food, fuel and financial). Based on the experience of the 2003 financial sector crisis, the DR 
Government feared that this wave of crises would increase poverty and unemployment and create 
additional fiscal pressures that would reduce already limited social sector spending, while also 
potentially undermining planning efforts to improve equitable access to quality education and health 
services. As a result, the DR Government seized the opportunity to promote long overdue reforms 
in both social policy and the quality of public expenditure, as described below (Sections 2 and 3). 
 
Reforms supported by the first PASS operation (approved by the Board in November 2009), 
combined with other instruments, were able to preserve the human capital of the poor in the short-
Page  2
term. Critical steps have also been taken to initiate major reforms to enhance social protection and 
the quality of public expenditure. The redesign of the social safety net framework, especially the 
Solidaridad
 program, has been combined with improved targeting of the fiscal resources dedicated 
to social transfers for extremely poor families and the progressive coverage of supply-gaps in 
education, health and nutrition. Consistent with the Government’s national priorities and the PASS 
program vision, PASS2 aims to further institutionalize these gains to ensure the sustainability of 
progress and move beyond
 preservation
 of human capital during the crisis to 
enhance
 the human 
capital assets of the poorest citizens. To do this, PASS2 advances deeper into new processes and 
areas of reform.  
 
2.
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The PASS series’ four inter-related objectives remain consistent in the proposed second operation, 
to support policies which are expected to: (i) enhance the performance of social sectors to promote 
human capital (health, nutrition, education) for the poorest citizens, through a fundamental redesign 
of
the Government’s Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT) program, 
Solidaridad
,
and its articulation 
with critical actions in health and education; (ii) improve budget management to support the 
performance of these social sectors within the CCT program; (iii) support the gradual introduction 
of
Performance Agreements in social sectors; and (iv) enhance transparency and accountability to 
users by strengthening the  enabling environment for a better informed demand for improved public 
sector performance in the social domain. 
 
3.
Preliminary description 
 
The proposed Second Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS) DPL is the second 
of
a
programmatic series of three DPLs in the Dominican Republic, envisaged to span over three 
years, to improve results in social sectors (mainly social protection, education and health). It will 
support selected policy actions to: (i) further advance the conceptual, institutional, and operative 
revamp of the CCT 
Solidaridad
,
including the systematic verification of new CCT co-
responsibilities, institutionalization of gains in intersectoral and interagency coordination and 
support for the implementation of the organizational development plan for 
Solidaridad
;
(ii)  
improve the articulation of the redesigned CCT with the supply of  health and education services 
received through the new 
Solidaridad
 co-responsibilities by enhancing the record keeping, 
monitoring, knowledge and practices of health staff, particularly in maternal-infant care and 
continuing to improve monitoring of student outcomes in education; (iii) strengthen the targeting 
and quality of service of the 
Solidaridad 
program and the transparency and competitiveness of the 
Solidaridad payment mechanism; (iv) enhance the sustainability of planning and budgeting for the 
Solidaridad
 program and associated supply-side gaps; (v) continue to promote the gradual 
introduction of performance agreements in social sectors; (vi) promote full disclosure of the 
Government budget information to improve public access and understanding of the budget; and (vii) 
support the Government’s approval of full-fledged social auditing and complaint mechanisms with 
enhanced community participation for the redesigned 
Solidaridad
 program. 
 
4.
Environment Aspects 
The
 
actions supported by the PASS series are not likely to generate significant positive or negative 
effects on the environment, forests, and other natural resources. 
 
5.
Tentative financing 
 ($m.) 
Page  3
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6.
Contact point 
Contact: Carine Clert 
Title: Sr. Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-4913 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: cclert@worldbank.org 
 
