Page  1
Approved by: ___________________
Yvonne M. Tsikata
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5994 
Operation Name 
Second Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (39%); Health (33%);General education 
sector (28%) 
Project ID 
P121778 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Avenida Mexico No. 45 
Gazcue 
Dominican Republic 
Tel: (809) 687-5131 
Fax: (809) 688-8838 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda y Economia 
Avenida Mexico No. 45, Gazcue, Dominican Republic 
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 14, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 27, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
November 18, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Despite recent improvements in this decade, the Dominican Republic (DR) still faces challenges 
in ensuring access to quality education and health for most of its population, especially its 
poorest citizens. Access to pre-school and secondary school is limited (31 and 53 percent, 
respectively) and unequal, with important divergence in enrollment based on household income. 
In health, the confluence of high levels of service coverage and stubbornly high levels of 
maternal mortality (150 per 100,000 deliveries in 2007) suggests substantial shortcomings in the 
quality of delivery of health services, particularly at the first level of care. Preventive 
interventions such as ensuring access to micronutrients for mothers and children remain an 
important challenge, particularly for the poorest groups. Low human capital accumulation, 
particularly among the poor, relative to comparable countries is partly a result of the scarce 
public resources being allocated to the crucial health and education sectors.  
 
Page  2
The PASS Program, a three-loan series, was prepared in the context of the wave of 2009 crises 
(food, fuel and financial). Based on the experience of the 2003 financial sector crisis, the DR 
Government feared that this wave of crises would increase poverty and unemployment and 
create additional fiscal pressures that would reduce already limited social sector spending, while 
also potentially undermining planning efforts to improve equitable access to quality education 
and health services. As a result, the DR Government seized the opportunity to promote long 
overdue reforms in both social policy and the quality of public expenditure, as described below 
(Sections 2 and 3). 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The PASS series’ four inter-related objectives remain consistent in the proposed second 
operation, to support policies which are expected to: (i) enhance the performance of social 
sectors to promote human capital (health, nutrition, education) for the poorest citizens, through a 
fundamental redesign of the Government’s Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT) program, 
Solidaridad
,
and its articulation with critical actions in health and education; (ii) improve budget 
management to support the performance of these social sectors within the CCT program; (iii) 
support the gradual introduction of Performance Agreements in social sectors; and (iv) enhance 
transparency and accountability to users by strengthening the  enabling environment for a better 
informed demand for improved public sector performance in the social domain. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Reforms supported by the first PASS operation (approved by the Board in November 2009), 
combined with other instruments, were able to preserve the human capital of the poor in the 
short-term. Critical steps have also been taken to initiate major reforms to enhance social 
protection and the quality of public expenditure. The redesign of the social safety net framework, 
especially the 
Solidaridad
 program, has been combined with improved targeting of the fiscal 
resources dedicated to social transfers for extremely poor families and the progressive coverage 
of supply-gaps in education, health and nutrition. Consistent with the Government’s national 
priorities and the PASS program vision, PASS2 aims to further institutionalize these gains to 
ensure the sustainability of progress and move beyond
 preservation
 of human capital during the 
crisis to 
enhance
 the human capital assets of the poorest citizens. To do this, PASS2 advances 
deeper into new processes and areas of reform.  
 
The proposed Second Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS) DPL is the 
second of a programmatic series of three DPLs in the Dominican Republic, envisaged to span 
over three years, to improve results in social sectors (mainly social protection, education and 
health). It will support selected policy actions to: (i) further advance the conceptual, institutional, 
and operative revamp of the CCT 
Solidaridad
,
including the systematic verification of new CCT 
co-responsibilities, institutionalization of gains in intersectoral and interagency coordination and 
support for the implementation of the organizational development plan for 
Solidaridad
;
(ii)  
improve the articulation of the redesigned CCT with the supply of  health and education services 
received through the new 
Solidaridad
 co-responsibilities by enhancing the record keeping, 
monitoring, knowledge and practices of health staff, particularly in maternal-infant care and 
continuing to improve monitoring of student outcomes in education; (iii) strengthen the targeting 
and quality of service of the 
Solidaridad 
program and the transparency and competitiveness of 
Page  3
the Solidaridad payment mechanism; (iv) enhance the sustainability of planning and budgeting 
for the 
Solidaridad
 program and associated supply-side gaps; (v) continue to promote the gradual 
introduction of performance agreements in social sectors; (vi) promote full disclosure of the 
Government budget information to improve public access and understanding of the budget; and 
(vii) support the Government’s approval of full-fledged social auditing and complaint 
mechanisms with enhanced community participation for the redesigned 
Solidaridad
 program. 
 
4. Financing 
 ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The implementation of PASS DPL2 will continue to rely on the close coordination of the Bank 
team with the respective institutions responsible for the PASS reforms, namely the Ministry of 
Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Social Cabinet, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry 
of Education.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits.
 
The PASS DPL series is expected to lead to: enhanced performance of the social sectors to 
promote the human capital accumulation of the poor; improved budget management for the 
enhanced performance of social sectors linked to the 
Solidaridad
 program; the gradual 
introduction of Performance Agreements in social sectors; and enhanced transparency and civil 
society oversight.  
 
Risks.
 
Economic:
 Actual recovery remains largely dependent on improvements in the volatile external 
environment (including the notable risk of a potentially widespread global debt crisis). A higher 
than expected deficit in the electricity sector could potentially affect Government solvency and 
contribute to a fiscal financing gap. 
 
Institutional:
 A risk exists in a possible shift in institutional priorities over time, exacerbated by 
intersectoral coordination challenges within the Government. Another risk is presented in the 
institutional and administrative capacity and financial constraints to implement the targeted 
reforms. Delays in closing supply gaps in education, health, and nutrition would present a social 
risk of penalizing families for non-compliance with Solidaridad co-responsibilities, when the 
non-compliance is due to a lack of available services. 
 
Natural Disasters:
 The Dominican Republic remains vulnerable to multiple natural disaster 
risks—particularly floods and hurricanes.   
 
Page  4
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Analysis of the policy actions and program outputs supported by the PASS program do not pose 
any likely negative social or poverty consequences. Minor social risks exist related to the 
penalization of Solidaridad households for non-compliance with new co-responsibilities in 
education, health, and nutrition, if these households are not able to comply with these conditions 
due to a lack of access to required services, where supply gaps currently exist. To mitigate this 
risk, the PASS program has included the estimation of existing supply gaps along with the 
allocation and execution of funds to cover these gaps before enforcing the verification of co-
responsibilities. A Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) has also been undertaken to 
identify effective strategies to overcome these risks. Early PSIA findings show significant 
potential for positive impacts from the newly conditional cash transfer program, 
Solidaridad
,
to 
incentivize human capital accumulation among the poor. Additional positive externalities exist in 
improving the targeting of social programs, establishing results-based financing mechanisms, 
improving budget and program transparency, and developing complementary health and 
education actions to strengthen intersectoral synergies.   
 
The
 
actions supported by the PASS series are not likely to generate significant positive or 
negative effects on the environment, forests, and other natural resources. PASS DPL2 activities 
do not diverge significantly from the original, planned activities. One minor change, removing 
the trigger on the design of an action plan to improve vaccination rates for children under five at 
the first level of care, has eliminated the only activity estimated to have a (moderate) 
environmental effect (i.e., generation of medical waste). In developing medium-term projections 
of social protection coverage, budget envelopes and revenue sources that include coverage of 
identified supply gaps, in education, health, and nutrition services, the PASS-related reforms 
may indirectly imply expansion or new constructions of schools and health care facilities. Any 
potential negative environmental impacts of these policies will be mitigated through the use of 
the existing comprehensive environmental analysis methodology used under the WB DR Early 
Childhood Education project.  
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Carine Clert 
Title: Sr. Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-4913 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: cclert@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Page  5
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
