 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14805

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 09/15/2015

               Country: Dominican Republic
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                 3
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                 3
             Series ID: S125806
       First Project ID : P125806                                                Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Do-3rd                      Project Costs (US$M):                      70.0                  70.0
                          Perform.&accbilty Of
                          Socsctrs Dpl
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       70.0                  70.0
      Sector Board:       Social Protection        Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                  11/17/2011
                                                             Closing Date:              11/30/2012          11/30/2012
          Sector(s):     Other social services (51%); General  education sector  (17%);  Health (17%); Central
                         government administration (15%)
         Theme(s):       Social safety nets (50%); Other accountability/anti-corruption (15%); Public expenditure;
                         financial management and procurement (15%); Education for all (10%); Health system
                         performance (10%)
    Second Project ID :P121778                                                     Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name: Second Performance            Project Costs (US$M):                     150.0              150.0
                         And Accountability Of
                         Social Sectors Deve
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      150.0              150.0
      Sector Board:      Social Protection           Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                  11/23/2010
           Cofinancers:                                      Closing Date:              11/01/2011          11/01/2011
          Sector(s):     Other social services (39%), Health (33%), General education sector (28%)
         Theme(s):       Social safety nets (50%), Health system performance (29%), Education for all (21%)
       Third Project ID :P116972                                                   Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name: First Performance And         Project Costs (US$M):                     150.0              150.0
                         Accountability Of
                         Social Sectors Deve
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      150.0              150.0
      Sector Board:      Social Protection           Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                  11/17/2009
           Cofinancers:                                      Closing Date:              12/10/2010          12/10/2010
          Sector(s):     Other social services (39%), Health (33%), General    education sector (28%)
         Theme(s):       Other public sector governance (36%), Health system performance (29%), Education for all
                         (21%), Social safety nets (14%)
Evaluator:                Panel Reviewer:        ICR Review                   Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Lev Freinkman             Robert Mark Lacey      Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2
2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Program Document (PD, p. 45), the Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS)
    Development Policy Lending (DPL) series of three operations had four inter-related objectives: a) to enhance the
    performance of social sectors to promote human capital (health, nutrition, education) for the poorest citizens,
    through a fundamental redesign of the Government’s Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program, Solidaridad,
    and its articulation with critical actions in health and education; b) to improve budget management to support the
    performance of these social sectors within the CCT program; c) to support the gradual implementation of
    Performance Agreements in social sectors; and d) to enhance transparency and accountability to users in social
    sectors by strengthening the enabling environment for a better informed demand for improved public sector
    performance in the social domain.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The policy reforms supported under the PASS series were grouped in the four policy areas consistent with the
    program’s objectives. These policy areas remained unchanged during the course of the program.

    (I) Enhancing the performance of social sector agencies to promote equitable access to human capital

    This policy area supported the reorganization of the country’s social transfer program Solidaridad into a
    full-fledged and efficient conditional cash transfer (CCT) program and simultaneously providing for expansion of
    services to CCT beneficiaries, including in education and health.

         Reforms in transfer administration included introduction of new transfer eligibility rules (linking them to
          recipients’ use of health and education services), changes in management responsibilities across key
          government agencies, establishing an integral system of monitoring and evaluation, introduction of
          verification mechanisms to ensure beneficiaries’ compliance with their new co-responsibilities, and
          improvements in targeting mechanisms.
         New supply side policies including improvements in monitoring of learning outcomes in primary and
          secondary education, introduction of the new system of budget transfers to subnational governments aimed
          at efficiency improvements in public spending in education, and setting-up a new registration system for
          primary health visits. In addition, the government expanded the non-cash benefits to CCT recipients by
          broadening the network of businesses that accept the debit card of the program and improved the recipients’
          access to the information on their transfer amounts and balances.

    (II) Improving budget management to support the performance of the CCT program
    This policy area aimed at boosting budget allocations for social sectors to meet the entitlements introduced under
    the CCT program and ensuring that the budget for CCT is executed as programmed. The main actions included
    the development of multi-annual projections of supply gaps in health, nutrition and education, adoption of
    adequate annual budgets to cover these gaps, and strengthening public financial management (PFM) procedures
    to ensure implementation of these budgets in a disciplined way.

    (III) Supporting the introduction of performance agreements in social sectors
    This policy area was focused on enhancing performance orientation of the budget and management processes in
    social sectors. The performance management agreements were introduced in the Ministries of Education and
    Health, backed up by performance-based budgeting and aimed at strengthening incentives for better decision
    making and stronger accountability for public spending. In parallel, a system of internal management agreements
    was introduced between the Ministry of Health and regional Departments for Health Services to adopt elements
    of result-based management.

    (IV) Improving transparency and oversight in the CCT program
    This policy area was intended to strengthen public demand for improved performance in social sectors. In
    particular, the program promoted disclosure of information on both the national budget and CCT program budget
    performance through a web-based tool. It also supported the introduction of a social auditing scheme to
    strengthen accountability for the provision of educational and health services at the community level.
d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The financing for this series totaled US$370 million. PASS1 was appraised in September 2009, approved for
   US$150 million equivalent by the Board on November 17, 2009, was declared effective and disbursed on
   December 1, 2009, and closed on schedule on December 10, 2010.
   PASS2 was appraised in September 2010, approved for US$150 million equivalent by the Board on November 1,
   2010, was declared effective and disbursed on December 21, 2010, and closed on schedule on November 1,
   2011.
   PASS3 was appraised in September 2011, approved for US$70 million equivalent by the Board on November 17,
   2011, was declared effective and disbursed on February 8, 2012, and closed on schedule on November 30,
   2012.

   The Country Partnership Strategy (page 33) originally envisioned that the PASS series would include four
   operations. PASS4 in the amount of $70 million equivalent was expected to be disbursed in 2012, but eventually
   was dropped. The ICR (p.16) provides two reasons for this discontinuation: a) deterioration of the macro/fiscal
   framework (the IMF program was discontinued in early 2012 – see Section 3b below), and b) an assessment that
   sustainability of the government’s social policies supported by the PASS program had been achieved, making
   additional policy-based lending unnecessary.

   The PASS program was strongly aligned with that of other development partners (including IADB and EU), but
   there were no formal co-financing arrangements.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial.
   The PASS program was relevant to the objectives of the Country Partnership Strategy for the Fiscal Years
   2010-2013 (CPS FY10-13), which was prepared in parallel with the PASS-1 operation. The four development
   objectives of the program were closely aligned with three out of four strategic objectives of the CPS (strengthen
   social cohesion and improve access to and quality of social services, enhance quality of public expenditures and
   institutional development, and build capacity and constituencies for reform). The CPS FY10-13 explicitly
   recognized the PASS program as the key instrument of delivering IDA support in the area of human capital
   development (p. 27). The PASS objectives were also closely linked with two main pillars (social cohesion and
   expenditure quality) of the previous CAS (FY06-09). At the same time, the overall objectives of the PASS series
   were fully aligned with the social and institutional development pillars of the Government’s National Development
   Strategy (NDS), which calls for broadening access to key public services, improving the quality of public
   expenditures, and promoting good governance. Furthermore, the program was consistent with various
   government sectoral reform strategies, such as a 10-year strategic plan in education (Plan Decenal de la
   Educación) approved in 2007.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial.
   The causal chain of the operation linked fiscal and policy support from the Bank to implementation of a
   comprehensive package of policy reforms supporting a major shift in the country’s social policy. The thrust of the
   planned reforms was towards a conditional cash transfer (CCT) system that is capable of reaching the neediest
   citizens and creating incentives for the poor to invest in their human capital. The PASS policy package addressed
   the problem of an inefficient social protection system in a holistic manner by including interventions to restructure
   the existing system of social benefits, strengthen incentives of beneficiaries to improve utilization of core public
   services, increase budget allocations on health and education in order to meet the expected increases in
   demand, and reform of the benefits administration to ensure improved targeting, monitoring of service quality,
   and strengthening broader accountability mechanisms.

   Designing its support to social reforms around the program of high-volume policy-based lending was appropriate,
   given Dominican Republic’s large needs in both budget support and policy adjustment. The design and selection
   of specific PASS-supported policies was backed up by considerable amount of analytical work and technical
   assistance.

   The prior actions were substantively linked to the program objectives, practically all of them had a meaningful
   regulatory impact, and they were largely based on the triggers that for PASS-2 and -3 were identified in the
   Program Documents (PDs) for the previous operations. In a couple of instances the original triggers were
   dropped, but those were mostly replaced with equally relevant prior actions.

   There were, however, four moderate shortcomings in program design:
   a) The original policy matrix in PD for PASS-1 was quite fragmented. It suggested 19 triggers for PASS-2 and
   18 for PASS-3. These triggers were then consolidated into ten prior actions for each operation. Such
   consolidation did not result (with one exception, see below) in weakening of the program content, which suggests
   that the original program structure was excessively detailed and had to be better focused (ICR, p. 25).
   b) The reform program in the health sector supported under PASS-2 and -3 was significantly weakened against
   the original design presented in PD for PASS-1. Out of four original triggers for this sector only one was kept as
   the prior action for PASS-3. In particular, the PASS program dropped all policy actions to improve vaccination
   rates, which is a social area where Dominican Republic has shown significant under-performance.
   c) The original PASS policy matrix did not provide for any policies to improve targeting in the benefit
   administration. This was added as a prior action under PASS-3.
   d) The program design was overambitious with respect to the expected pace of development of integrated M&E
   system. Complexities of developing such a system in a low capacity environment were under-estimated (ICR,
   pages 13-14).

   Macroeconomic framework. When PASS-1 was approved, the country’s macroeconomic framework was viewed
   as sustainable despite considerable government financing needs (6.4% of GDP). In the IMF’s assessment, under
   an earlier IMF program (2005-08) the government’s prudent macroeconomic policies in a favorable external
   environment restored confidence and delivered strong macroeconomic performance, with rapid GDP growth and
   single-digit inflation. A subsequent program - a 28-month Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) - was therefore approved
   by the IMF board in November 2009. Its implementation in 2010-11 was affected by delays in reducing the
   energy sector deficit and slower than expected improvements in tax collection. Ultimately, the SBA program was
   discontinued in early 2012, as the government breached some of its core performance criteria. Moreover, in 2012
   a rise in pre-election spending resulted in further widening of fiscal deficit (7.9% of GDP). This deterioration of
   fiscal performance is one of the reasons why PASS-4, originally programmed for 2012, did not take place (ICR,
   p.16).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1: Enhancing the performance of social sectors to promote human capital (health, nutrition,
   education) for the poorest citizens
   Substantial

   Achievement of this objective is measured according to two criteria: a) greater use of social services by the poor
   and vulnerable, and b) improvements in management of the CCT program itself (monitoring, targeting, benefit
   payment).

   Use of social services

   In health, despite some progress being recorded against the baseline of 2009, most program targets remained
   unmet. The share of pregnant women among CCT beneficiaries receiving prenatal checks reached only 68% by
   end-2012 versus a target of 94%, while the share of puerperal women receiving postnatal checks was 44% (vs.
   target of 50%). The share of children under 2 with the complete vaccination set was 40.3% in 2012 (target – 65%).
   Progress on ‘health checks for elderly’ was not reported in the ICR due to a lack of data. The only health target
   met relates to the share of children under 5 who comply with the standard set of medical checks – this indicator
   reached 65.3% vs. the target of 65.0%. It is worth noting that, as the ICR states, the above data may significantly
   underestimate those who actually received health services due to weaknesses in the national health reporting
   (ICR, p.17).
   In the area of nutrition (three indicators related to specific groups of women and children among CCT
   beneficiaries), the program targets also were mostly unmet, despite being revised downwards at the time of
   PASS-3 approval. Specifically, the share of children under five, who receive micronutrient supplements, shows a
   significant gap against the targets – 12.6% vs. 80%. This is explained in the ICR (p.18) by the delay in the
   implementation of the nutrition program supported by the World Food Program.
   In education, the program’s progress towards its own targets was somewhat stronger. Attendance targets were
   exceeded for all educational levels (with actual attendance rates of 93-96% vs. targets of 70-90%). Enrolment
   targets were exceeded for compulsory basic education (95.9% vs. 85%), but the performance fell short of targets
   for pre-school and lower secondary education.
Overall, there is a sense that the PASS program made a significant contribution to broadening the poor CCT
beneficiaries’ access to critical social services, but the program’s own results framework makes it difficult to
appreciate the actual scale of program achievements in this area. This is due to major weaknesses in the M&E
system (see section 10 for details). The program targets for access to social services were too ambitious, as they
were defined in the absence of reliable baselines. Moreover, progress under the program was measured on the
basis of the existing government data collection and reporting system, which resulted in systematic
under-estimation of actual improvements. For instance, in the area of pre-school education the share of CCT
children enrolled in early childhood programs increased from 14.1% in 2009 to 35.6% in 2012, a significant
achievement. Still, it was short of the program target (50%), which was probably unrealistic.
In addition, the results framework insufficiently relied on specially designed household surveys and comparisons
between the CCT beneficiaries and the control groups. When such comparisons were undertaken (ICR, p.15),
they showed significant differences in the rates of improvements between CCT recipients and the control group
for a number of indicators of access. Furthermore, as explained by the task team, the results of Program Social
Impact Assessment (PSIA) confirmed a major improvement in access among CCT beneficiaries – for instance,
compliance with education co-responsibilities, increased primary school enrollment among rural poor by 6 pp.,
and decreased child labor by 9.2 pp.; while health co-responsibilities doubled incidence of medical checks for
children under 5 (from 32 to 66%).
Overall, successful mitigation of the negative impact of the 2008-09 crisis on poverty and human capital of the
poor represents a significant achievement of the program. In contrast to the previous crisis (2003), extreme
poverty did not rise during the recent series of shocks due in part to increases in the CCT transfers and the
number of beneficiaries (PD for PASS-2, p. 15). The number of CCT beneficiaries has doubled between 2009
and 2014. Due to its strong targeting performance, the CCT program covers more than 90% of extremely poor
households and about 80% of the poor. It is estimated that the transfer program was directly responsible for a
one percentage point reduction in the poverty rate (ICR, p. 21) below what it would otherwise have been as a
result of the economic and financial crisis. However, these program achievements were unreported in the results
framework.

Management of the CCT program

The Government’s ability to monitor and verify compliance of program beneficiaries with their co-responsibilities
has improved. The program target (after the downwards revision in 2011) was to ensure that at least 80% of
transfers were paid to the recipients, whose compliance with co-responsibilities was verified. In 2012, 85% of
respondents complied with their co-responsibilities in health and 80.7% with co-responsibilities in education.
However, at program closure, the Government still did not have in place a permanent system for such verification
as the completion of the new M&E system was delayed (See section 10). In 2011-12 verification was undertaken
through interim arrangements, relying on regular sample-based audits of beneficiaries.
Three other aspects of CCT program management were upgraded. First, the Government significantly expanded
the network of stores where CCT beneficiaries can spend their cash transfers (by using their program debit
cards). By the end of the PASS series, the respective target (3,067) had been exceeded, with almost 5,000
establishments included in the network. Second, the Government succeeded in setting-up a monitoring
mechanism to control potential problems in the benefit payment system. It signed an agreement with a consumer
protection organization (pro-Consumidor) to monitor the payment services and issue regular reports. This
agreement has been fully operational. In addition, there is an established mechanism in place to deal with
beneficiaries’ complaints over the payments. The community scorecards instrument, implemented under the
PASS program, revealed a high overall level of satisfaction of CCT beneficiaries with quality of services received
under the program. Third, in the area of benefit targeting, the program objective (‘Update the database (SIUBEN)
used to select the beneficiaries of the CCT program’) was achieved. The database information was updated for
households who were in the original dataset. Moreover, the coverage of SIUBEN was expanded to add more
than 300,000 households (about 20% growth in coverage). Overall, improvements in targeting in the course of
PASS implementation were quite significant. It is estimated that the share of social assistance spending that
targeted the poor increased from 6% in 2005 to 53% in 2011 (ICR, p. 21).
On balance, given that the improved management efficiency targets were exceeded and the use of social
services by the poor has improved, the efficacy of Objective 1 (“enhancing the performance of social sectors to
promote human capital for the poorest citizens”) is rated substantial, despite the fact that several specific targets
concerning use of social services, some of which were inappropriate, were not met.
Objective 2: Improving budget management to support the performance of social sectors within the CCT
program
High

The program aimed at expanding public spending in social sectors to close the supply gaps in services for CCT
beneficiaries. In the event the Government made significant shifts in its fiscal policies, making its budget much
more socially-oriented. For instance, budget educational spending (as a share of GDP) almost doubled between
2009 and 2014, from 2.24% to 4.40% (based on the report from the Ministry of Education). The Government
developed new budget procedures that effectively prioritize budget allocation to the health, education and
nutrition services. In addition, there was a major improvement in budget execution discipline to reduce risks of
within-the-year budget revisions. The specific targets under the PASS programs were related to improvements in
budget execution and were measured by two specific indices. The first reflected a degree of relative protection of
priority budget programs for closing supply gaps from within-the-year revisions (it compared annual budget
deviation ratio for priority programs with the same ratio for the entire budget). As the Ministry of Finance followed
a policy of almost full protection of priority supply gap programs, the 2012 deviation ratio for these programs was
as low as 1.6% (vs. 19.6% for the entire budget), bringing the value of the index to 0.08 (1.6/19.6) vs. the target
of 0.85. The second index measured a degree of absolute protection of the same priority budget programs,
reflected by the standard budget disbursement ratio. Again, due to the high level of protection of priority
programs, the respective target was exceeded: the disbursement ratio in 2012 was 0.98 (best potential outcome -
1) against the target of 0.85.

There is, therefore, convincing evidence that: (i) there were considerable actual increases in social spending,
which were focused on providing additional funding for priority social programs; (ii) these priority programs were
developed, inter alia, to close funding gaps associated with the provision of additional core services in health and
education to poor CCT beneficiaries; (iii) the priority social programs were fully funded during budget execution
(deviations were almost zero), despite the effects of the economic and financial crisis; and (iv) CCT beneficiaries
indeed increased their use of core services.

Objective 3: Supporting the gradual implementation of Performance Agreements in social sectors
Substantial
The Government made gradual progress in introducing the core elements of performance-based budgeting in the
operations of social ministries. In late 2011, it was agreed to introduce five performance agreements as part of
the 2012 budget. These agreements were signed between the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Development
and Ministries of Education (three agreements -- for pre-primary, basic and secondary education programs) and
Health (two agreements -- programs for immunization and maternal and infant care). Furthermore, for two other
social programs (nutrition and child labor eradication) respective Ministries have put in place their logical
frameworks (detailed, structured programs, in which the main performance indicators for the sectoral agencies
are identified), as an intermediary step towards the preparation of additional performance agreements. The
respective PASS program target provided that by 2012 at least six social programs related to the CCT program
would develop log-frame methodology as a basis for introduction of performance agreements with the respective
Ministries. The ICR, however, provides no information on the substance/quality of the signed performance
agreements. The practical experience of implementation of performance agreements by the social Ministries
(after the PASS program closure) remains also unclear from either the program documentation or the IEG
meeting with the team.
Objective 4: Enhancing transparency and accountability to users in social sectors
Substantial
The program supported new accountability policies in two separate areas: overall budget transparency and
oversight within the CCT program.

Budget transparency. The Government has set up a website for publication of the national budget data and made
an effort to keep its information up to date while providing increasingly more budget disaggregation along
alternative budget dimensions. Local NGOs received training in analysis of budget data. The site’s data coverage
is rather comprehensive and goes beyond the social sectors supported by PASS. The website has registered
over 15,000 visits in 2012 (against the target of 1,500). However, the website does not yet support registration of
its users. Therefore, it remains impossible to monitor progress towards another program target in this area (‘to
reach 60 independent registered users of the site’). Overall, the Dominican Republic’s recent progress towards
greater budget openness and transparency was substantial. The country’s Open Budget score increased from 12
(out of 100) in 2008 to 29 in 2012.

Oversight of the CCT program. Targeting issues (including qualifying criteria for benefits) and the reliability of the
payments system were discussed under Objective 1 above. The primary instrument for strengthening
accountability of CCT program was implementation of the community scorecard tool. The tool was successfully
introduced and became the integral part of the program management system (ICR, p.20). The Government then
decided to expand its coverage and approved the 2013 expansion plan. The Government also established local
committees to address grievances raised by the scorecards. In 2012 the share of distributed scorecards
completed and returned by community committees of CCT beneficiaries was 78.5% vs. the target of 70%. It is
worth noting that, according to scorecards, CCT beneficiaries express high level of satisfaction with the program.
   For instance, 88% of collected responses stated that the program social workers were helpful in facilitating
   access of beneficiaries to health and education services (information obtained from the team).


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The outcome rating of the program is satisfactory, reflecting substantial relevance of both objectives and design,
   high efficacy of the second program objective, and substantial efficacy of the other three objectives. The
   program helped the Borrower to make significant progress in restructuring its social protection system by
   introducing a modern program of conditional cash transfers. Introduction of co-responsibility requirements for
   beneficiaries and expansion in government spending in core social sectors brought about tangible improvements
   in access to basic services for the poor. In addition, in the course of the program, significant improvements were
   recorded in the quality of budget management, targeting of social spending, transparency and accountability
   within the social assistance system, and other governance elements.


a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The risk to the outcome rating is moderate given the strong Government’s commitment to the policy reforms
   supported under the PASS program. After the 2012 presidential elections, the new Administration renewed its
   commitment to reforms in social assistance and poverty reduction. The Government announced the creation of a
   Ministry of Social Development to further advance institutional framework for social reform implementation (ICR,
   p.22). Furthermore, in order to ensure reform sustainability, the Government secured an additional package of
   assistance from the World Bank under the new Integrated Social Protection and Promotion Project (P147213)
   approved by the Board in March 2015. The primary risk to the program outcome relates to macroeconomic and
   fiscal vulnerability of Dominican Republic, which reflects large financing requirements (both domestic and
   external) and the entrenched deficit of the publicly-owned electricity sector.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The PASS program was prepared on the basis of a well-established policy dialogue with the Authorities,
    extensive analytical work, and close coordination with the development partners (EU, IADB, USAID). It was
    part of the Bank’s strategy to provide the government with a package of budget support, knowledge services
    and technical assistance (See PD for PASS-1, pp.42-44; ICR, p.12). The PASS program complemented
    activities undertaken by a number of Bank investment projects in social protection, education, and health
    (ICR, pp. 3-4). The design reflected recommendations of a 2006 Poverty Assessment, a review of the
    framework for performance budgeting (2009), and a Policy Note on political economy of reforms in education.

    PASS-1 was prepared on an accelerated basis to provide urgent support to the Dominican Republic, which
    was affected by the global financial crisis of 2008-09.

    A moderate weakness of Quality-at-entry relates to the deficiencies in the program’s Results Framework,
    including: (i) lack of reliable baseline data at the time of PASS-1 approval; (ii) over-ambitious targets in
    Program area 1 (access to social services); (iii) gaps in the system of monitoring indicators that did not
    provide for monitoring critical dimensions of program outcomes, including the poverty impact of reforms in
    social protection, (iv) excessive reliance on the Government’s own reporting systems that remain
    under-developed over the most of PASS implementation period; and (v) absence of indicators directly related
    to program development objectives. There was also a lack of attention to the policies that would improve CCT
    targeting (this was addressed during the implementation).
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Four Implementation and Status reports (ISRs) were prepared. The team demonstrated reasonable flexibility
   during implementation by re-prioritizing and consolidating the set of prior actions for PASS-2 and -3, in
   particular by dropping those which were completed by the Government earlier than it was originally expected.
   These modifications overall did not weaken the reform content of the program. Two programmatic
   Non-lending TA programs, implemented in parallel with the PASS, were useful in supporting participating
   government agencies in meeting their policy commitments under the program. As part of supervision, the
   team also undertook an active donor coordination effort. Partnership with the IADB was particularly effective
   in monitoring and verification of various core program outcomes.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   Government ownership and commitment to the PASS supported reforms was consistently strong. The
   authorities used the 2008-09 crisis as an opportunity to accelerate the reforms in social protection and raise
   efficiency and effectiveness of budget spending in social sectors. The Government performed well in timely
   adoption of the agreed policy actions and was very effective in enhancing the coordinating role of the Social
   Cabinet that helped to improve collaboration across various government ministries and agencies. The political
   leadership of the Vice-President office was quite instrumental to the success of the PASS (ICR, pp. 24, 26).
   High-level political mandate helped counteract interest groups’ resistance to reforms (PD for PASS-3, p.15).
   The Ministry of Finance developed and adopted new budget procedures that provided protection of budget
   allocations for priority social programs from sequestration. However, the program implementation was
   affected by deterioration of the Government’s fiscal performance in 2011-12, which was one of the reasons
   why PASS-4 did not take place.

   One minor shortcoming concerned delays in developing a government-management information system, a
   core part of the M&E system for the program, due to changes in the M&E system and the over-complex
   sectoral management information systems in the Ministries of Education and Health. The task team confirmed
   that these information systems had become fully operational after the ICR had been completed.



  Government Performance Rating :                             Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The implementation of the program was coordinated by the Social Cabinet, the institution attached to the
   Office of Vice-President. Two special committees were established to enhance inter-agency coordination,
   both of which chaired by Vice-President. Coordination and inter-agency cooperation was effective.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The M&E design shows significant weaknesses. First, the results framework did not contain any PDO-level (core)
    results indicators. Instead it included 22 specific indicators reflecting various particular aspects of program results
    (presented in Annex 2 of PD for PASS-1). Second, the composition of this indicator set was not well aligned with
    the program objectives. On the one hand, several indicators were output-oriented, especially for policy areas 3
    and 4 (such as e.g. number of performance agreements signed, number of scorecards filled, etc.). On the other
    hand, various critical parameters of the CCT system being reformed were not covered by these indicators (quality
    of targeting, degree of CCT beneficiaries’ satisfaction, etc.). Third, at the time of program approval, the program
    did not contain any baseline due to the lack of reliable household survey data. Such a survey was undertaken
    only in 2010 and its results only became available at the time of the PASS-3 approval in 2011. Fourth, because of
    the absence of a reliable baseline, the program targets established under Policy area 1 were over-ambitious and
    unrealistic. Finally, the M&E design relied excessively on the Government’s own reporting systems (vs.
    independent survey-based verification), which had weaknesses. This proved especially problematic in the
    situation when the government decided to develop new sectoral informational systems that took a long time to
    complete.

b. M&E Implementation:

    The M&E implementation was undertaken primarily on the basis of the Government’s own reporting on the
    program’s monitoring indicators. It was coordinated by the CCT Inter-sectoral Committee under the Social
    Cabinet. Most of the agreed monitoring indicators were collected annually and presented in the PD for PASS-2
    and -3. Given the delays in implementation of the new government’s information systems, there was a gap in the
    monitoring of several indicators that were supposed to verify compliance by CCT beneficiaries with their
    co-responsibilities. This gap was filled with the additional effort to audit the CCT program (sample-based),
    supported by the development partners (ICR, pp. 15, 18). The limited number of M&E indicators was reported in
    the ISRs prepared by the team during supervision. The ICR presents information on 19 out of 22 original
    indicators.

c. M&E Utilization:

     According to the ICR, the program’s M&E system was fully internalized by the government, which enhanced its
    capacity to use the respective monitoring tools and helped the authorities to make (with delays) progress in
    monitoring and evaluation of the core social assistance programs (ICR, pp. 15-16).

 M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    No safeguard policies were triggered by this DPO series.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR does not discuss fiduciary issues related to the program implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    There were significant positive unintended impacts under the program. First, the Government started to use the
    management tools and related infrastructure developed under the PASS (such as targeting and payment
    mechanisms) in managing its other important social benefits for the poor, including subsidized health insurance
    and energy subsidies. This resulted in additional improvements in efficiency of the country’s overall social
    protection system that go beyond the CCT reforms (ICR, p. 19). Second, the new CCT system had strengthened
    the demand among the poor for obtaining their identification documents (in particular, among the women), which
    has longer-term implications for broadening their opportunities for social participation (ICR, pp. 21-22).

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        There were moderate shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory      Quality at Entry, including a weak
                                                                              results framework.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:
      A programmatic approach could be highly effective in supporting national reforms in social protection
        aimed at step-by-step introduction of the CCT system. The program, however, need not be limited to DPO
        lending, but would need to utilize complementarities with other Bank instruments, including investment
        lending, non-lending technical assistance, and advisory work.
      Implementation of a reliable M&E system, covering a decentralized system of service providers, is a
        critical component of transition to the full-fledged CCT system. Development of such an information
        system in a low capacity environment could become a reform bottleneck if not well-designed and planned
        in advance. Given the long time needed to complete a modern information system, the option of a simpler
        interim solution, which uses survey instruments, could be considered at the stage of reform design.
      A major economic crisis could provide a window of opportunity to consolidate political support for an
        ambitious social reform agenda. Availability of timely policy advice from the Bank, based on the
        high-quality analytical work completed earlier, might be instrumental for utilization of this opportunity and
        for helping the Government to promptly develop reform implementation plans.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR presents a detailed and frank analysis of program results and implementation experiences, but it has
    three moderate shortcomings. First, the ICR did not provide ratings for the program efficacy by individual program
    objective, presenting only the aggregate Outcome rating. Second, while the ICR contains description of M&E
    developments within the government’s social protection system (ICR, pp.14-16), its discussion of the M&E
    system used by the team to track progress under the Bank’s PASS operations remains limited. Third, the ICR
    missed the opportunity to highlight the broader impact of the PASS program on poverty and access to core
    services in Dominican Republic. This could have been done by bringing in some core results of the Program
    Social Impact Assessment (2012) that provided in-depth analysis of changes in lives of CCT recipients taken
    place since the CCT reforms were initiated.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
