                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 28194

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-42430)

                                             ON A

                                            LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40.0 MILLION

                           TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTIOQUIA

                             IN THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                           FOR A

                                BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




                                         June 15, 2004




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                                          Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                           October 1997 = US$ 1.00 = Col$1,244.00
                                        US$ May, 2004 = Col$2,600.00

                                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                            January 1       December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AM       Aide Memoire
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DNP      National Department of Planning
DOA      Department of Antioquia
FSD      School Management Account (Fondo de Servicios Docentes)
GOC      Government of Colombia
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank")
ICFES    Colombian Institute for the Development of Higher Education (Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la
         Educación Superior) (State Test for Secondary Education)
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IEC      Information, Education, and Communication
JUME     Municipal Education Board (Junta Municipal de Educación)
LA       Loan Agreement
MOE      Ministry of Education
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NBF      Non Bank Financing
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PEI      School Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
PEM      Municipal Education Plans
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PSR      Project Supervision Report
SIP      School Improvement Plan
POA      Annual Investment Plan
QER      Quality Enhancement Review
SA       Special Account
SABER    Achievement Test
SEDUCA   Antioquia Departmental Secretariat of Education and Culture
SEM      Municipal Education Secretariat (Secretaría de Educación Municipal)
SILED    Local Education Systems
SOE      Statement of Expense
TOR      Terms of Reference




                                        Vice President:           David de Ferranti
                                     Country Director             Isabel M. Guerrero
                                       Sector Manager             Ana Maria Arriagada
                                  Task Team Leader:               Martha Laverde

                                         COLOMBIA
                                ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P006891                                                  Project Name: CO ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION
Team Leader: Martha Laverde                                          TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CO ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-42430
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (25%); Pre-primary education
                            (21%); Primary education (20%); Secondary education (20%);
                            Sub-national government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/02/1996                                     Effective: 02/20/1998                03/16/1998
     Appraisal: 05/30/1997                                         MTR: 05/21/2000                  05/21/2000
      Approval: 11/06/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          DEPARTMENT OF ANTIOQUIA OF THE REPUBLIC OF
                                           COLOMBIA/SECRETARIA DE EDUCATION DE ANTIOQUIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:             Martha Laverde                                 Joel Reyes
ICR Primary Author:             Martha Laverde


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In the early 1990s, the Government of Colombia (GOC) was engaged in an ongoing process of supporting
local government and community management of the education system, yet this decentralization was not
generating expected results since the quality indicators in the education system were still poor and financing
remained centralized. In order to advance the decentralization strategy, the GOC decided to build the
capacity of local governments to manage the education sector and provide schools with the autonomy and
capacity to plan, implement, and evaluate their own education development efforts. As part of this
strategy, the government supported a pilot program to provide multilateral funds directly to local
governments. The Department of Antioquia (DOA) and the Municipality of Pasto were selected to carry
out full-fledged education development plans and pilot interventions that would serve as models for
enhancing decentralization nationwide. The Antioquia Basic Education Project and the Pasto Education
Project (Loan 4242-CO) (both approved in 1997) were the first fully decentralized projects in Colombia.
These projects were designed to support local entities in the decision-making process to reflect more
accurately the needs of the users, to give adequate recognition to regional diversities and to increase the
accountability of educational actors.     The Department of Antioquia has always been a cultural and
economic leader in Colombia, yet it is also one of the regions most affected by poverty and high levels of
violence and its education system was characterized by low education achievement rates and high dropout
and repetition rates. The development objectives of the Antioquia Basic Education Project were to:

a)       contribute to the Department's goal of improving student learning, access and school retention
among the rural and urban poor and at-risk-of-violence      communities;
b)       improve the capacity of schools/communities, municipalities, and the Department to provide their
respective education services effectively; and
c)       provide lessons for a national strategy to support municipal and Departmental education
management and investments.

Assessment

The project objectives were consistent with the Government of Colombia's (GOC) education policies and
the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) prepared in 1997, which placed a strong emphasis
on decentralization and community participation policies. The Colombia CASs prepared in 1993 and 1997
recognized that the country still showed low and uneven levels of educational attainment and coverage,
primarily in poor and rural communities, adversely affecting development in the country. In the education
sector, the focus of the CASs was on expanding access and improving quality through education services
provided at the municipal level, with increased school autonomy and greater community and private sector
participation. When education responsibilities are transferred to the departments and municipalities,
decision-making at the local level can more accurately reflect the needs of users, adequately attend to
regional diversities, and also increase accountability.         As one of the two pilot projects testing
decentralization strategies at the departmental and municipal levels, this project focused on the
departmental level and was intended to provide lessons for decentralization design and implementation from
the ground-up as input into the national strategy to strengthen decentralization.


The Antioquia Project was primarily designed to contribute to the Department of Antioquia's goals of
improving student learning, access and school retention among poor rural and urban communities and those
at-risk-of-violence.  The project was responsive to the needs for improving the capacity of schools,
communities, municipalities, and the Department to effectively provide their respective education services.



                                                     - 2 -

Furthermore, the project helped strengthen the decentralization process by supporting the national
government policy to provide multilateral funds directly to local authorities to address issues of education
quality and efficiency.

In 1992, the central government initiated a process of "certification" complementary to the decentralization
process    whereby local governments are made fully responsible for planning education investments,
managing the recurrent costs, identifying additional sources for investment and implementing and
evaluating education development projects. Antioquia was one of the first Departments to be certified.

The innovative nature of the Antioquia Basic Education Project vis-à-vis other operations financed
previously by the Bank in Colombia and in the Latin American and Caribbean region should be highlighted.
Together with the Pasto Education Project, which was implemented at the municipal level, Antioquia was
the first decentralized operation at the department level. In fact, all project interventions were planned with
to make them the responsibility of the local government at a department level. The premises underlying this
decision were that: (i) the Department is closer to the municipalities and schools of its jurisdiction than the
central government; (ii) municipal and school autonomy requires that the municipalities and schools
strengthen their technical and financial capacity to manage the resources for education; and (iii) it was
necessary to support the development of the new advisory and technical assistance functions of the
Department.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of supporting the GOC's decentralization reform were not revised, but some of the
project components were adjusted to reflect the evolution of the strategy and to accelerate implementation.
There were three amendments to the Loan Agreement (LA) as detailed in Section 3.4.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following three components: (A) Strengthening school and community capacities
for developing and implementing school improvement plans (PEIs); (B) Strengthening municipal education
management and investment development; and (C) Strengthening of departmental education services. These
three components were financed with a US$40.0 million IBRD loan and the local counterpart of US$40.0
million for a total of US$80.0 million.

Component A. School and Community Sub-projects (estimated US$49.0 million; actual US$16.4
million). This component would finance: (i) school-based sub-projects (PEIs) for school improvements,
pedagogical innovations, instructional material, equipment, education technology and participatory
management; and (ii) municipal training and technical assistance to strengthen pedagogy, curriculum,
management, planning and community participation.

Component B. Municipal Education Management (US$20.- million; actual US$25.0 million). This
component would finance: (i) municipal education investments for infrastructure, contracting with NGOs
for preschool education, rural education access strategy, municipal education and cultural services; and (ii)
management improvements to refurbish local education offices, modernize municipal education secretariats
and provide management training and technical assistance.

Component C. Departmental Education Services (US$11.0 million; actual US$11.7 million). This
component would finance: (i) the institutional strengthening of the Antioquia Departmental Secretariat of
Education and Culture (SEDUCA) to coordinate the project; (ii) the consolidation of an efficient
communications and information system across the department's education services; (iii) the institutional
strengthening of SEDUCA's technical and advisory services to assist municipalities; (iv) implementation of



                                                     - 3 -

a participatory plan and social marketing campaign in support of educational reform and promotion of
positive values and attitudes toward education; (v) strengthening the impact evaluation capacity of
departmental and municipal education units; and (vi) documentation and dissemination of lessons learned
on project preparation and implementation.

Assessment

The project components were clearly linked to the specific objectives listed above and addressed the most
relevant educational issues facing the DOA in terms of education quality and efficiency. Component A
offered a technically valid means to confront the low achievement levels and high dropout and repetition
rates by promoting pedagogical and curriculum innovations, generating participatory management and
community participation around these issues; and providing instructional material, equipment and
education technology. Components B and C were focused on strengthening both SEDUCA's capacity to
manage the educational system and the municipalities' ability to design and implement sound educational
plans.

3.4 Revised Components:
During implementation, by request of the DOA and in agreement with the Bank, there were several
adjustments in the components and implementation arrangements, which resulted in three amendments to
the Loan Agreement.        These changes did not affect the original objective of strengthening the
decentralization process by supporting the national government and department strategies to improve
education quality and efficiency. The Bank demonstrated flexibility regarding the project design and
execution and these adjustments made the following changes possible: (i) better utilization of the loan
proceeds based on actual project implementation and on the savings achieved in several categories of
expenditures; (ii) fine-tuning actions as recommended by the Bank during the mid-term review of May
2000 and the quality enhancement review (QER) panel of March 2001; (iii) addressing the initial lack of
counterpart funds by increasing the percentage of expenditures financed by the Bank from the original 50
to 70 percent for the municipal component and from 50 to 100 percent for the departmental component; (iv)
consolidating implementation achievements and bringing them to fruition before the closing date; (v)
updating the operational plan to ensure selectivity of the different interventions and appropriate selection
criteria; (vi) overcoming internal frictions among SEDUCA departments that affected the provision of
counterpart funds (which delayed investments and the coverage program); and (vii) consolidating the school
and community improvement plans (PEIs) and improving the municipalities' capacities to manage
education and investments gains achieved throughout the project implementation cycle. The effects of these
amendments were reported consistently in the corresponding PSRs and supervision mission Aide Memoires.




                                                   - 4 -

The most relevant changes and justifications for the amendments are explained below:

Amendments                    Change                       Justification                  Amendment
Section 1.02 (m), Section     Modification of the pari-    Critical fiscal situation.     First, June 27 ,2001
3.01 (c) of the Loan          pasu for: (i) municipalities Consolidation of past
Agreement                     from 50%-50% to              achievements by preparing
                              70%-30%; and (ii) the        an operational plan that
                              department from 50%-50% reflected the range of
                              to 100%.                     selectivity of the different
                                                           activities and interventions
                                                           as well as the selection
                                                           criteria
Schedule 1 category 1, 2      Distribution of the          Better utilization of Loan     Second, September 17,
and 3 of the Loan             unallocated category         Proceeds                       2002
Agreement
Section 2.03, Paragraph 1     Extension of the closing     To attend to new               Third, June 13, 2003
of Schedule 1 of the Loan     date by six months and       requirements set forth in
Agreement                     reallocation of the loan     National Law 715
                              categories

Several actions resulting from the MTR and the QER panel review such as incorporating three guiding
principles to be applied at all levels of project's administration: (i) selectivity; (ii) simplicity; and (iii)
flexibility were not considered to be major restructuring and were not reported to the Executive Directors.
The financing for all components was adjusted according to the actual costs experienced during
implementation (see Table 1).

                 Table 1. Project Financing, Original and Revised by Component
                                   (in US$ million equivalent)
          Component                  Original PAD                    Revised 1/                    %
                                                                                           Original/Revise
                                  IBRD            Local        IBRD             Local      IBRD      Local
 Schools and Communities           24.5            24.5         20.0             3.4        81.6     13.8
 Municipal Education               10.0            10.0         13.0             12.0      130.0     120.0
 Services
 Departmental Education             5.5            5.5           7.0             1.8       127.3     32.7
 Services
 Total                             40.0            40.0         40.0             17.2      100.0-    43.0-

1/ MTR June, 2001

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is considered satisfactory. There was no formal quality-at-entry evaluation carried out
by QAG during preparation, but the regular quality assurance procedures of the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region were strictly enforced during preparation. The project was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategies of 1993 (document #P6070 ­ CO) and 1997 (document #P41960 ­ CO), which
recognized the low level of educational attainment and coverage primarily in poor and rural communities.
Both CASs also placed a strong emphasis on decentralization and community participation polices as a




                                                     - 5 -

means to improve education quality through better delivery of social services, provided at the municipal
level, with increased school autonomy and greater community and private sector participation.

The project was prepared by a group of fifteen qualified national professionals, appointed and financed by
the Department of Antioquia from identification to appraisal, with full central support and commitment.
This ensured the Borrower's ownership during the entire project preparation process. In addition, there was
broad participation of stakeholders, extensive media coverage of project objectives and education
investments, and well-coordinated technical assistance between central institutions and the departmental
government in critical areas of impact evaluation and dissemination of lessons learned. The project design
and the preparation process incorporated relevant lessons learned from previous sector operations in
Colombia, and from other sector investments worldwide. Given the innovative character of project, the
preparation time, from identification (May 15, 1996) to Board approval, was about 18 months. An
important lesson derived from previous operations was the early design of flexible procedures that guided
sub-project appraisal, implementation and evaluation.

A thorough cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out during preparation.             The
procurement, disbursement and financial management arrangements were clearly defined. Likewise, sound
institutional and social assessment studies were conducted during the preparation stage to measure the
social viability of the project, as well as to anticipate the social risks and propose specific actions to
mitigate undesirable effects.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's objectives is considered satisfactory since most of the planned outcomes
were accomplished except for improving student retention in lower and upper secondary education (note
that the upper secondary level was not included in the project but was positively affected by the project).
Based on the quantitative and qualitative information presented below and in Annex 1, the implementation
of the project helped produce the following outcomes: (i) increasing access to preschool, primary and lower
secondary education; (iii) improving students' learning achievements in basic education; and (iii) building
and strengthening educational capacity at all department levels. However, in terms of improving student
retention in lower secondary education, no significant results were achieved, most likely due to the grave
situation of violence in the Department during implementation, which resulted in many youth being drawn
into armed groups. Similarly, the difficult fiscal situation in Colombia meant that many families had to
withdraw their children from school so they could supplement family income.

Project execution was carried out during a period of continual and radical changes in the regulations
governing the education sector. The most significant of these was Law 715 (2001). Moreover, the teachers
blamed the World Bank for the changes in transfers from the national government stipulated in the law.
These strong reactions temporarily brought the project to a standstill.

The source of this outcome information is derived from: (i) the monitoring system of the SEDUCA project,
supplemented by information from schools, the municipalities and the Secretariat itself; (ii) the databases
on enrollment of the Secretariat's Planning Office (which originally included Medellín ­ the capital of the
department); after the certification of the Department, it became possible to have the necessary information
for the 124 municipalities of the Department without Medellín (iii) two external evaluation studies; and (iv)
the application of the SABER achievement tests by the Colombian Institute for the Development of Higher
Education (ICFES) Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento a la Educación, attached to the National
Ministry of Education. 1998-1999, 2003. The latter two items are the basic sources that supported the



                                                    - 6 -

quantitative baseline data and the project evaluation study, carried out in 2003. All the information was
analyzed during the ICR missions.

Increase access to preschool, primary and lower secondary education.                          The project contributed to
increase gross coverage at the primary level by 3.8%, and in rural primary alone by 10.7%. This exceeded
the appraisal estimates (2% gross and 5% rural coverage, respectively). At the lower secondary level the
annual average increase in gross coverage had been originally estimated at 1.5% but the project reached
15.3% during the implementation period because the Department and the municipalities used a combination
of effective strategies to increase coverage. In terms of overall school access, the increase in coverage is
estimated at 11.3% for preschool, 2.3% for primary and 22.8% for lower secondary, which gives an
average increase in access to all levels of education of 8.2% in the 90 municipalities in which the project
operated.

With regard to the improvement of student retention (repetition and dropout) in primary and lower
secondary education the project impact was estimated at appraisal to be a 10% reduction in both
categories. The results of the project indicate that there was a 19% reduction (improvement) in the
repetition rate, much higher than originally expected. With regard to dropouts, results were not as good,
achieving an improvement of only 1.1%. This can be explained in part by the critical situation of war and
violence that affected the municipalities targeted by the project. The project evaluation report did note that
dropouts were more severe in the municipalities where the project did not intervene (the project covered 90
out of the 125 municipalities of the department.

To improve the learning process at the school level, the project estimated a 5% increase in student scores
in schools in the municipalities participating in the project. The results of the project based on the SABER
tests carried out in 1998-2000 and 2003- see Table 2- indicate that there was an average 0.4%
improvement in mathematics, with 5th and particularly 9th grades achieving the best results and 3rd grade
showing a deterioration. Average improvement in Language was 36%, with very good results in grades 5th,
7th and 9th, the exception being, again, 3rd grade, which will require further studies to understand the
reasons for this deviation.

                           Table 2. Percentage of students who reached or exceeded the Achievement Level
                                                                  Year                        Year
                                                              1998 ­ 2000                      2002
 Area                       Grade                    B         C         D          B        C        D
                            3rd                      78.7      52.9      16.4       66.2     23.2     11.5
                            5th                      73.7      37.8      13.0       83.8     44.3     15.5
                            7th                      84.7      31.4      2.0        67.4     27.1     5.2
                            9th                      54.2      13.4      0.7        74.5     34.0     8.1
        Mathematics         Average                  72.8      33.9      8.0        73.0     32.1     10.1
                            3rd                      86.6      68.5      36.8       79.1     56.5     24.9
                            5th                      69.5      23.9      4.4        94.4     81.8     44.5
                            7th                      78.1      37.3      6.5        95.1     80.1     34.2
                            9th                      91.9      63.2      14.7       93.9     72.7     32.0
                   Language Secondary                81.5      48.2      15.6       90.6     72.7     33.9
 Source: Results of SABER Tests. 1998 ­ 2000 Application: SEDUCA. 2002 SABER Tests: ICFES

With regard to access and retention rates, the following results were observed during missions and project
evaluation study: (i) the schools are more attractive/general atmosphere is improved; (ii) there is an




                                                                   - 7 -

increased sense of belonging among students, teachers, staff and parents; (iii) there are closer and more
open relationships between schools and the communities; (iv) there is a better adjustment between
education supply and demand; (v) there is more contextualized learning content in line with the local
reality; (vi) there is participation of marginal groups such us urban periphery and rural communities in
some project activities; and (vii) there are changes and improvements in hiring and service provision
processes in education.

Finally, concerning building and strengthening the educational capacity at all levels in the Department,
the project produced significant positive outcomes in terms of improving the institutional capacity of
SEDUCA, the Municipal Secretariats of Educations (SEMs) and the schools, as explained below.

At the SEDUCA level, the project effectively fulfilled its strategic planning, advisory and facilitating role;
SEDUCA improved its data collection and analysis of educational statistics and implemented educational
reform. Specifically, the project was instrumental in: (i) creating a participatory model through which
technical assistance was provided to municipalities and schools; (ii) establishing strategic partnerships with
the public and private sector, especially with NGOs, to optimize the use of human, physical, technical and
financial resources; (iii) providing support to the SEMs and schools in planning, administration, and
pedagogical matters; (iv) supporting the establishment of TAREANET, This is a SEDUCA project that
proposes to connect all the municipalities both among themselves and with schools and other institutions
whose size and infrastructure make this feasible. which involved 124 municipalities and Medellín for a total
of 125 municipalities and 174 institutions including schools and community centers; (v) designing and
assisting in the implementation of the information system for teachers, personnel management and
accounting; and (vi) implementing an enrollment reporting system (SISRUE) at SEDUCA, on the basis of
the list of student names reported by the schools as required by the Ministry of Education in Decree 166
(2002).

At the level of the Municipal Secretariats of Education, the project made it possible to improve the
decentralization process by helping the mayors, in most of the municipalities of the DOA, learn to fulfill
their responsibilities with regard to the education sector in their municipalities.          In practice, the
municipalities learned to plan and organize the provision of educational services, purchase additional
resources and manage education with the participation of the educational and civil communities. The
project also contributed to strengthening the relationship between municipalities and schools, and building
an education network in the Department to ensure access and retention of students in the system. To
achieve this, the project widened the concept of educational networks to include private schools, organized
civil society and the productive sector, thus facilitating the application of Laws 115 and 715.

The main focus of the project was to support interventions at the school level. The project effectively
contributed to increasing autonomy of schools by strengthening the school councils and community
participation, and improving the school environment. In fact, as a result of the project, the empowerment
of the principals and teachers produced a noticeable positive attitude toward their new roles and a renewed
commitment to education goals. The School Education Projects (PEIs) have had a significant impact on
the schools and communities, demonstrating that schools can successfully design and implement their own
projects. The project evaluation study carried out by the Universidad de Los Andes found that the project
made it possible for schools to contribute toward the community's social and economic development, and to
encourage community-strengthening and the integral human development of its children and young people.

Regarding the expected impacts, beyond the fact that the project exceeded the target of 1,200 schools
involved in decentralized management supported by the project with 1,874 schools participating, the
evaluation showed that over 90% of the schools have a high level of community participation, against the


                                                       - 8 -

80% target set at appraisal. The field visits and focus group meetings conducted as part of the evaluation
study indicate that most of the participating schools and communities are satisfied with the positive effect
of the project and recognize its impact in terms of building up participation, providing better education
conditions and creating a strong sense of ownership, exceeding the 85% target of school participation set at
appraisal. Finally, in all 90 municipalities involved in the project the schools are managing education plans
autonomously, well above the 43% project target.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. School and Community Sub-projects Highly Satisfactory. This component was highly
successful at the school level in terms of improved administrative and financial autonomy and strengthened
school councils. The communities' ability to participate in education services was also enhanced.

Before the beginning of the project, the formulation of School Improvement Plans (PEIs) was not
commonly done in all schools or was done by outside consultants without ownership by the schools and
SEDUCA was not equipped to provide appropriate technical assistance to support development of PEIs.
The PEI was considered a key instrument to foster schools' autonomy in designing and implementing
improvement plans and addressing quality and coverage issues. The project financed technical assistance
and training for the preparation of the PEIs in each school in order to allow them to present school-based
investment proposals (subprojects) linked to retention and learning issues.

About 1,874 schools and their respective education communities were strengthened ­ 56 percent over the
expected target of 1,200, ­making it possible for the school management staff to improve their education
planning and management practices. This was achieved through training, advisory services and assistance
from SEDUCA on topics such as human resource management, procurement, inventory management,
maintenance and use of physical infrastructure, procurement of educational materials and teaching aids,
financial resource management, budget follow-up and control.

The improvement in school management had the following impacts on the teaching process: (i) presentation
of innovative pedagogical proposals; (ii) autonomous decisions regarding PEIs and resources; (iii)
application of participatory processes and self-management; (iv) identification and formulation of
community projects and management of resources; and (v) implementation of innovations in the
management of human, physical and financial resources. These achievements were the result of project
investments in training and educational materials development (see Table 3).           As a result, students
improved their achievement levels in Language by an average of 36 percent.




                                                     - 9 -

                                   Table 3: Project Investments
   Educational       Goods            Training                                     Beneficiaries
   Materials
   Computer          5,149            Participants in Training ­ General           6,327
   technology
   Textbooks         20,727           Curriculum Design and Study Plan             695
   Preschool         777              Instructional and/or Mathematics and         990
                                      Language Skills
   Primary           16,809           School Management                            270
   Secondary         3,141            Parents                                      4,149
  Other books       17,879           Municipal Officials                          259
   Educational       13,535
   Aids
   Equipment         2,935
   Source: calculation based on SEDUCA's monitoring System

In terms of the school environment, major improvements were achieved with regard to physical
infrastructure, safety and comfort of the education community (see Table 4). Investments were made in
accordance with projects based on the respective PEIs and submitted by the school councils comprising the
principal, representative of the teachers, parents and civil society.

                                    Table 4: Civil Works and Furniture
            Civil Works Total         12,415    Furniture Total             30,762
            Construction               2,425    Students                    17,443
            Rehabilitation,
            Adaptations                5,125    Educators                    1,597
            Maintenance                4,866    Administrative Area          4,587
                                                Library                      1,858
                                                School Cafeteria             5,277
            Source: SEDUCA's Monitoring System

Component B. Municipal Education Management. Satisfactory. Through this component, the project
aimed to increase access to educational services and strengthen education management units at the
municipal level. The project followed a multi-faceted approach to increase educational coverage at the ;it
implemented innovative strategies such as contracting with private schools and it also relied on existing
alternative strategies, such as tutorial education (SAT) in the rural areas. Finally it increased the number
of places in public schools in the municipalities from 440,937 to 476,901, representing 8.2 percent more
than at the beginning of the project.

The support for strengthening education management units at the municipal level resulted in 90 Municipal
Education Board ­JUMEs and municipalities ­ 12.5 percent more than the expected target of 80 JUMEs ­
with the capacity to operate and make decisions, manage the education service autonomously, and use
modern administration tools. Complementing these strategies, the SEMs made a significant contribution by
organizing the training of school principals and teachers through external providers.

Based on the information gathered by the ICR mission, the project was very successful in: (i) improving the
education decentralization process; (ii) strengthening the relationship between municipalities and schools;



                                                      - 10 -

(iii) expediting the application of Laws 115/1994 and 715/2001; (iv) promoting greater school autonomy;
(iv) allowing the municipalities to assume a more professional role with regard to education; and (v)
incorporating new actors in the operation of the education sector.

Component C.         Departmental Education Services. Satisfactory.            The project contributed to
strengthening the advisory and technical assistance support provided to the municipalities as envisaged in
Law 715 of 2001 SEDUCA introduced teamwork and results-oriented management models by establishing
teams of change leaders in 1,856 schools and 90 municipalities, as well as 9 participatory circles in
sub-regions, 7 agreements with universities and 23 strategic alliances with NGOs and academic
organizations. In addition, in pedagogical, administrative and financial terms, the Department's 124
municipalities (excluding Medellín) were trained on the basis of a pilot course held in the municipality of
Caicedo. This Technical Assistance Participatory model, developed by the Secretariat of Education of
DOE, has been a key factor in the success of the project. Ninety municipalities were trained in the
monitoring and evaluation model designed by the project; 59 municipalities received assistance under an
agreement with the University of Antioquia to develop a model for improving language teaching (this is
being extended to 124 municipalities as part of the retraining of teacher training in language skills); 39
working groups were established to operationalize the mathematics curricular guides provided by the
Ministry of Education -MOE-and school principals and teachers were trained in the interpretation and use
of the SABER and ICFES assessment tests.

Furthermore, SEDUCA played a leading role in the development of programs to support education for
peace programs aimed at mitigating the incidence of violence. One of the most important was the "
escuelas zonas francas de paz", a program put together by SEDUCA with the participation of teachers,
students and the community with the purpose of protecting the schools from the various armed groups by
negotiating a "violence-free zone status".     This initiative was financed partially by the project, and
continues to operate today with funding from SEDUCA and the SEMs.

The project evaluation study noted the following significant contributions and long-term effects of this
component including: (i) establishing a model of advisory services and technical assistance to
municipalities; (ii) generating modernization processes for professional interaction with the municipalities
(web page; information, financial, monitoring and evaluation systems); (iii) reorganizing the internal
structure of the Education Secretariat; (iv) generating political/administrative decisions to implement the
Department's Development Plan; (v) contributing lessons on how to implement a national investment
strategy in education at the department and municipal level; and (vi) making it possible to establish
alliances to enhance quality processes in municipalities.

With regard to communication among educational actors and dissemination of knowledge and
experience, the aim was to inform and motivate municipal authorities, school principals and teachers, and
community leaders regarding the project. The communication campaigns were very successful, reaching
90 municipalities and almost 2,000 schools (12.5 percent more municipalities and 56 percent more schools
than had been initially targeted). As a result, the majority of municipalities and schools were fully
informed and committed to the project objectives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable




                                                   - 11 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial. The ICR mission noted four significant
long-term institutional development impacts from the project: (i) SEDUCA capacity strengthened; (ii)
municipal education management strengthened; (iii) school autonomy consolidated; and (iv) communities
empowered.

First, the project built significant capacity in SEDUCA to support the implementation of education reform.
The technical assistance model to support the municipalities was established as a result of the project.
Important modernization processes were generated to facilitate interaction with the municipalities and
schools, including the information, monitoring and evaluation systems. The project facilitated several
political decisions for implementing the Department's Education Plan and provided guidelines for the
Department's investment strategies in education, among them the partnerships with NGOs and the private
sector finance quality improvement programs.

Second, the municipal capacity to manage education was significantly improved. Municipalities learned to
plan, provide technical assistance and supervision to schools, and generate information to support decision
making. Adequate pedagogical inputs, furniture and equipment were also provided. The combination of all
these factors enabled the SEMs to assume a leading role in the management of the schools in a
decentralized framework.

Third, school autonomy contributed to improving the delivery of education services and the quality of
pedagogical processes, and consequently to achieving better learning achievements. The schools, as the
focus of project interventions, became the space where new ideas for quality improvement were introduced
in a participatory manner. Schools are now better prepared to embrace more ambitious pedagogical
changes and management innovations.             Decentralization created the necessary conditions for the
formulation and implementation of government regulations derived from Law 715 (2001) regarding the
reorganization of schools, participatory planning processes, school autonomy, financial management and
education statistics, among others.       Through the investments made under the project, the physical
environment was improved, and high quality educational materials became available.

Fourth, communities were empowered to participate in the identification of the main education sector issues
through the PEI process and the school council and propose valuable solutions, which previously had been
perceived as solely the State's responsibility. The communities are now assuming ownership and full
commitment in the implementation of the PEIs. They also actively participate in the administration of
school funds and contribute complementary financing to purchase goods and services for school
improvements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Colombian fiscal crisis had three implications for the project. First, the system for transferring funds
from the national government to decentralized entities was modified and was not in accordance with the
terms of Law 60. This law predated Law 715 of 2001, and determined the amounts to be transferred by the
national government to territorial entities as well as the eligibility for investment of the funds received. the
parameter under which the project was formulated, and as a result the resources available to Antioquia
decreased. This required that the Department and municipalities reduce their counterpart funds, but it was
compensated by a devaluation of the Colombian peso that made it possible to maintain and even increase
the level of project investments. Second, due to the economic crisis, lower family income levels resulted in
a transfer of students from the private sector to public schools. And finally, the recent application of the



                                                     - 12 -

per capita allocation from the central government substantially decreased the income of small rural
municipalities, severely limiting their ability to maintain investment levels, especially for increased
coverage.

Legal framework changes. The project execution was carried out during a period of continual and radical
changes in the regulations governing the education sector. The most significant of these was Law 715
(2001), that included the reorganization and mergers of schools in order to offer more continuity in the
delivery of education services from grade 0 to grade 11; contracting of teachers on a temporary basis (due
to mass retirement of teachers), modification of education decentralization processes with regard to
personnel management procedures, and issuing of new labor regulations. The latter led to changes in the
basic teaching statute, working and teaching hours, causing concern among the teaching management staff,
and was strongly rejected by the teachers' union because it implied a threat to the union's gains
(qualification examination for new teachers and pay increases linked to performance evaluation).
Moreover, the teachers blamed the World Bank for the changes in transfers from the national government
stipulated in the law. These strong reactions temporarily brought the project to a standstill.

Violence and armed conflict. Violence in the rural areas of the Department of Antioquia where the project
operated led to a continual movement of displaced persons from the rural areas toward the major cities.
The emotional and psychological state of the displaced children made it difficult for them to adapt to the
new school environment, leading to serious dropout problems, despite the important efforts made through
the "escuela zonas francas de paz" program and the Education for Peace partnership The Education for
Peace Partnership is the effort of international organizations and government institutions working together
to contribute to the construction of a peace culture in Colombia from the education sector. SEDUCA is
one of the partners..

The armed conflict was recognized as a major obstacle to the project. The project could have achieved
much more if it had not had to deal with a situation that became much more complex than imagined,
requiring a lot of time and attention to manage. As the project had an eminently rural focus (on average,
out of 15 schools targeted in each municipality, 10 to 12 were rural), many times, project activities were
postponed because of the presence of different fighting groups. Among the most serious difficulties was
the destruction of several new school buildings financed by the project, which had to be reconstructed a
second time.

The provision of technical assistance to the municipalities by the Department proved very difficult at first
as it was constantly hindered by paramilitary or guerrilla forces. However, by the last two years of project
implementation, the project had achieved such a positive perception that being identified as staff of the
Secretariat of Education was like holding a "diplomatic passport," because it allowed the advisors to move
freely around the Department.

During the project implementation period, more than ten teachers were killed some of them even in the
presence of their students. The Governor and his Advisor for Peace Process were kidnapped for more than
one year and then executed by the guerrillas. This situation had a very negative impact in terms of project
governance at all levels.

Heterogeneity of the department. The heterogeneous nature of the Department of Antioquia had
operational implications that were not fully understood during project preparation.          The diversity of
conditions among municipalities, (political, financial, and particularly in levels of human and social
development), combined with the influence of the various actors involved in the armed conflict, resulted in
substantial variations in the speed and costs of implementation of project activities among the different


                                                    - 13 -

municipalities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation was hindered by the following aspects, which were subject to government control:
(i) the National Planning Agency did not authorize an extension of the implementation period as agreed at
the mid-term evaluation; a six-month Closing Date extension was authorized only at the end of the project;
(ii) Legislative Act 01 (2001) and Law 715/2001 modified the financial transfers from the central
government to the municipalities, thus reducing counterpart funding capacity; and (iii) regulatory changes
imposed by Law 715 (2001).

On the positive side, implementation performance was enhanced by three factors subject to government
control including: (i) the devaluation of the peso made it possible to extend coverage to more municipalities
and lower the total cost of the project; (ii) the establishment of an Education for Peace partnership at the
national level (led by the World Bank and involving the Departmental Education Secretariat, the Education
and Culture Secretariat of Medellín, MEN, among others); and (iii) the certification of 23 Escuelas
Normales Superiores, which participated as providers of mathematics and language training, strengthened
teaching processes and PEIs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were several factors subject to control by the different implementing agencies involved that affected
project execution.

At the Department level: All successive administrations that governed the Department (from the time of
project preparation until the closing) consistently supported the project objectives.         In addition, the
preparation of the project risk map, which assessed those areas with the highest level of vulnerability and
determined the type of measures needed to mitigate the risks, greatly helped project implementation

At the level of the departmental education secretariat (SEDUCA): Continuity of project policies was
achieved throughout the terms of four different Education Secretaries. The Education Secretariat decided to
generalize the technical assistance model and the operations manuals throughout the Department and
"escuelas zonas francas de paz" program for community-strengthening and peace and non-violence has
been successfully implemented, using lessons learned from the project.

At the project coordination technical team level: There were some problems at the start of the project
including the excessive rotation of advisors within municipalities, as well as insufficient working space and
computer equipment for the project team. Yet, there were several positive factors such as effective training
and the constitution of interdisciplinary teams. There were also implementation difficulties at the beginning
because the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) imposed complex accountability requirements on the
municipalities and school communities (accounting, reporting) which, were also different from what the
Municipal Comptroller's Office required. The Bank followed a multi-pronged strategy to resolve these
issues, such as special workshops with Bank procurement and disbursement specialists, technical
assistance missions, and more frequent supervision visits

At the municipal level: Frequent turnover of mayors and municipal officials due to elections affected
project implementation negatively, mainly due to: (i) the lack of understanding of the project's objectives by
the new officials; (ii) political rivalry between the different administrations, which resulted in disregard for
previous achievements; and (iii) there were some municipalities with problems of noncompliance with
financial commitments for the project, which required the intervention of the Governor at the Bank's
request.    On the positive side, the mayors' commitment was fundamental to ensuring prompt



                                                      - 14 -

implementation of the project.

At the school and community level: Union opposition to educational policies associated with external
funding was a problem, as was weak community participation at the beginning of the project. This
opposition was overcome through continuous training technical assistance. The lack of experience and the
absence of a legal framework for operating the School Management Account funds independently also
made implementation more difficult. Nonetheless, the project provided an opportunity for the communities
involved to define realistic expectations regarding quality improvement, and it reduced the initial distrust
within education community by implementing targeted actions. The use of resources by the schools
themselves was more effective than when resources were managed by the municipality.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$53.1 million, of which US$39.5 million corresponded to the IBRD Loan
(approximately US$0.5 million was cancelled) and US$13.6 in counterpart funds. The percentage of
counterpart funds was less in order to compensate for the shortfall in transfers from the national
government. This led to an increase in the percentage of expenditures financed by the IBRD from the
original 50 to 70 percent for the municipal component, and from 50 to 100 percent for the Departmental
component. Overall, these adjustments involved a reduction in the project's total amount of about 33.6
percent of the originally estimated amount. However, the project benefited from the exchange differential
resulting from the devaluation of the peso, the slowdown in inflation in recent years, and the domestic
procurement of goods and consulting services.           This explains the project's greater local purchasing
capacity, which made it possible to exceed many of the targets. The total costs by financier is detailed in
Table 5.

                  Table 5: Total cost by financier in US$ million and Col$ million
    SOURCE                    Appraisal           1998              2003 total       2003
                              estimate            estimate in       executed         executed
                                                  pesos                              in pesos
    IBRD                      40.0                49.60             39.5             106.5
    Counterpart               40.0                49.60             13.6             36.4

    TOTAL                     80.0                99.529            53.1             142.9

According to the last financial information (April 31,2004), Table 6 shows the financial progress by
component:


                          Table 6: Project Costs by Component (in US$ million)
   Project component                   Appraisal  Revised   Actual/latest           % of
                                       Estimate   2/        Estimate            Actual/Estimate
   Schools and Communities                 49.0     23,4           16.4              70.1
  Municipal Education                      20.0     25.0           25.0             100.0
  Departmental             Education       11.0     8.8            11.7             132.9
  Services
   Total 1/                                80.0     57.2           53.1              93.0
    1/ Including physical and price contingencies
    2/MTR. June , 2001

The financial management of the project was satisfactory. The financial management system put in place
by the PCU was commended by the Bank's financial management specialist. According to the Bank's



                                                      - 15 -

assessment, this system was very effective in producing timely, reliable and relevant financial information
for project-related decision-making.

Audit reports for each fiscal year during the life of the project were consistently delivered to the Bank on
time (within the six-month limit after the end of the previous fiscal year). The project was audited by a
private auditing firm that was satisfactory to the Bank. The auditors were satisfied with most of the reports
in terms of both the financial information presented and the control procedures.

At the end of the project, the external audits confirmed that the financial management and accounting
system met the needs of the project in terms of reports and financial statements providing reliable
information on the state of project accounts. There were no major audit observations or financial issues
pending at the project closing date. The difficulty in getting the municipalities and schools to render their
accounts on time was gradually corrected and part of this success was due to strict follow-up procedures
conducted by the Department's project team.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely and will be facilitated by the way municipalities, schools and communities
have become aware of their responsibility for education as reflected by: (i) the high levels of community
participation and empowerment generated, as well as the autonomy achieved in the schools; (ii) the
empowerment of the schools in their pedagogical and administrative processes; (iii) the communities'
involvement in the oversight of expenditures and investment; (iv) the commitment to the continuous
improvement of pedagogical processes through institutional improvement plans based on achievement test
results; (v) the financial autonomy given to schools to make use of resources through school management
accounts; and (vi) the strengthening of principals and administrative teams, providing entrepreneurial vision
and administrative and management skills.

In addition, sustainability is enhanced by: (i) a clear definition of spheres of competence in education
between the Nation, the Department, the municipalities and the schools; (ii) the incorporation of project
interventions into the Departmental plans; and (iii) municipal, school and community ownership. All of
these achievements should be considered as fundamental and necessary for the long-term development of
the education sector, together with a high degree of commitment, in order to create conditions for
continuing further improvements at all the levels involved.

In many ways the project served as a model for the promulgation of Law 715 (2001) that regulated new
territorial competences, introduced school reorganization, instituted student-based financing, provided
professionalization of the teaching career, and empowered school principals to manage funds. The law
provided tools for school managers to diagnose school performance, identify problems and subsequently
rely on participatory plans to solve them. It is important to note that the project was conceived and
implemented according to the decentralization objectives set forth in Law 115 (1994).

The project goals were the primary inspiration for the plans designed to improve coverage, quality and
equity in the education sector: the National Plan for Education Development or "Educational Revolution"
(2003), the Strategic Plan for the Development of Antioquia, (2004) and the Plan for the Provision of
Educational Services in Antioquia (2004). The strategic goals of these plans are: (i) to improve basic
knowledge in mathematics, language, social sciences and citizenship values; and (ii) to adapt and generalize
the use of a participatory model to generate changes in the overall education structure.




                                                      - 16 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project used a combination of strategies to guide its implementation and the transition of its activities
to regular operations. Project components: (A) to strengthen schools and communities for the development
and implementation of school improvement plans (PEIs), and (B) to strengthen municipal education
management and investment development, were carried out using the regular administrative structures of
SEDUCA and the municipalities.

The activities directly implemented by schools and communities under school-based sub-projects resulted in
investments in school environment and infrastructure, pedagogical innovation, instructional material and
equipment, and education technology. Participatory management proposals made by schools and parents,
for activities such as training and technical assistance, were locally appraised and contracted to NGOs and
universities   Similarly, at the municipal level, training and technical assistance for pedagogical and
curriculum improvements and community participation provided to all schools or clusters of schools
(nuclei) were locally appraised, contracted and implemented. Infrastructure expansion, investment for
increased access, libraries, teachers' resource centers, refurbishing and equipping of local administration
offices, responded to local needs and were appraised by the JUMES.

At the SEDUCA level, except for the technical and advisory services to municipalities mentioned above,
the following activities were implemented directly by the SEDUCA's specialized units: (i) development of
education information services and dissemination of information; (ii) research and analysis regarding the
lessons learned; and (iii) design and implementation of the impact evaluation system. With regard to
technical and advisory services to municipalities, the ICR mission was informed that the current team of
advisors would be absorbed by the education quality unit, where they will continue to provide the same
technical services.

In addition, the Department of Antioquia has consistently indicated to the Bank the importance it places on
continuing support to education, which is central to its development agenda. Recently, in April 2004, the
Governor formally requested that the Bank consider financing a new operation to improve access, quality
and relevance at the upper secondary level and improve the transition with post-secondary technical
education.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal phases of the project is considered
satisfactory. The Bank preparation team displayed a sound knowledge of sector issues to be addressed by
the project, including the need to: (i) expand access and improve quality in basic education; (ii) improve
internal efficiency by reducing dropout and repetition rates; (iii) improve student achievement; (iv) develop
a new participatory model for technical assistance; (v) involve the communities in the diagnosis and
solution of education issues; and (vi) use the decentralized structure to manage the desired change.

The project was prepared within the framework of the Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) for Colombia
of 1993 and 1997, which recognize that the country's still low levels of educational attainment and
coverage, primarily in poor and rural communities, adversely affects its development. The 1997 CAS
placed great emphasis on successfully implementing Colombia's decentralization and community
participation policies. The Bank also assisted the Government of Colombia (GOC) in preparing a study of
the status of decentralization, which served as a critical input into project design.




                                                     - 17 -

The Bank team maintained a close relationship with the Borrower and carried out frank policy discussions
with the education authorities, remaining flexible and open to new ideas. The team also made a significant
contribution to the design in terms of the technical and financial feasibility of the decentralization process
and school autonomy. Broad participation from the community was encouraged during project preparation.


Notwithstanding the positive aspects described above, Bank performance during project lending could have
been improved by: (i) further evaluation of the implementation capacity of the municipalities and schools;
and (ii) a sound assessment to define the real capacity of the NGOs and universities to provide technical
assistance to municipalities and schools. Also, several implementation issues were not envisaged and were
only solved at the time of the mid-term review and the QER panel (delays due to the participatory
approach, weak capacity of schools to manage financial resources, etc.).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance during supervision is considered satisfactory; it was (i) consistent and timely; (ii)
responsive to the adjustments suggested by the MTR and QER panel; and (iii) proactive to solve technical,
administrative and operational issues.

The Bank carried out a total of 15 supervision missions (about one every four months), including a
mid-term review in mid-2000 and an ICR mission in March 2004. Prior to each supervision mission, the
SEDUCA project coordination unit prepared and delivered to the Bank in a timely manner,
well-documented project implementation progress reports on accomplishment of the mission's objectives.
There were only two task managers during the entire implementation period, thus the required supervision
continuity was largely achieved by the Bank teams. The supervision teams were made up of a fairly stable
mix of appropriate Bank staff and qualified external consultants.          Bank supervision missions were
instrumental in identifying feasible solutions to address relevant project implementation issues such as: (i)
implications of the SEDUCA modernization and transition plan; (ii) cash liquidity required for the project
start-up; (iii) need for extension of the closing date; (iv) early design of the impact evaluation study; (v)
equipment required by the management information system; (vi) procedures to ensure municipal and school
accountability; (vii) a large undisbursed balance one year before the closing date; and (viii) difficulty of
applying World Bank procurement procedures to small items in isolated locations.

As shown in Annex 4, most of the supervision missions rated the implementation progress and achievement
of developmental objectives as satisfactory. On two occasions (2000 and 2001) the implementation rating
was unsatisfactory, mainly because of lags in disbursement (one of the reasons at that time was the lack of
counterpart funds, and another was that the participation process required more time to prepare investment
projects at the municipal and school levels). Each supervision mission ended with a well-documented Aide
Memoire (AM) including progress achieved, issues to be addressed, recommendations and agreed solutions.
Each AM, once thoroughly discussed and signed, was subsequently used as a monitoring and follow-up
mechanism. A control matrix of the agreements reached by the mission was drawn up, which was shared
with the project team at the beginning of each mission, reviewing the agreements that had been reached
before. This was the main follow-up instrument used by the Bank.

A thorough mid-term evaluation was carried out, leading to major decisions to improve project
implementation, such as: (i) introduction of the principles of selectivity, flexibility and simplicity in all
components and levels of project management, and (ii) reduction in the share of counterpart afunding. As a
follow up to the mid-term evaluation, an innovative form of QER was carried out at the same time as the
Pasto Education Project. For the first time in a Bank QER, the counterpart team was invited to participate
together with the Bank supervision team. This approach had a very positive impact in terms of acceptance



                                                    - 18 -

and ownership of the agreed changes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory. In addition to the above comments, the Bank: (i)
demonstrated great flexibility in times of economic and fiscal crisis; (ii) played a key role in mediating
among the institutions involved in the certification process; (iii) fully supported the innovative participatory
approach and provided the project team with the necessary resources; (iv) ensured continuity during
changes of administration; (v) demonstrated celerity and flexibility in processing the "no objections"
requested; and (vi) was able to turn around the project from its "problem status" before the MTR.

In September 2001, as a result of the MTR and QER panel review, several actions were agreed to speed up
and simplify project implementation. Despite the initial difficulties with counterpart funding and internal
problems at SEDUCA, the project was satisfactorily completed, requiring only a six months extension to
the original closing date. The timely and effective project implementation adjustments largely compensated
for the early project setbacks involving counterpart funds.

Bank management noted in their comments on the PSRs, that, despite the high level of violence and civil
disorder in Antioquia, the project continued to perform satisfactorily owing to the supervision team's
flexibility in making adjustments to ensure smooth implementation and the fact that the project was
supervised by a task manager based in the country.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Antioquia Department in project preparation is considered satisfactory. This
operation, together with Pasto, was the first to support the local governments directly and represented a
special challenge for the local authorities who had never worked with a multilateral agency before. The
local government provided and financed a team of expert consultants as well as regular staff headed by the
Governor and the Departmental Secretary of Education to work closely with the Bank on the identification,
design and preparation of project components. This made it possible to develop a coherent project proposal
for presentation to the Bank. The satisfactory ranking for project preparation was assessed on the basis of:
(i) the strong political commitment displayed by the Governor; (ii) the clear educational priorities identified
by the Department, which were fully reflected in the project design; (iii) the incorporation of stakeholders in
the project design as well as the effective participation of key SEDUCA officials and the selected
municipalities; (iv) a well-assembled background information package with research, reports and studies
about the education situation in Antioquia; and (v) a full set of operational procedures that was prepared
early on.

During project preparation, the Borrower encountered resistance, on the part of the more traditional
SEDUCA staff, to the proposed reforms and the decentralization process, as well as political interference in
the certification process (both at the department and municipal level) and gaps in the information required
to establish a good baseline for measuring project impact. All this was managed under the direct leadership
of the Governor and the Education Secretary, making it possible to minimize these issues.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Department of Antioquia during implementation is considered satisfactory. The
Departmental government consistently expressed a commitment to the project objectives. During the life of
the project, the Governor adopted the project strategy and program as a departmental priority. The
authorities were also consistently quick to react to Bank mission recommendations, particularly to the
adjustments arising from the MTR and QER panel. When the need for changes and amendments were



                                                     - 19 -

discussed and recommended by the supervision missions, the departmental authorities promptly made the
request to the national authorities and the Bank, and quickly countersigned the amendments once they had
been approved by the Bank. Finally, the Department of Antioquia authorities provided a working
environment that was conducive to ensuring the sustainability of project activities, as described in Section
6.

The National Authorities: The MOE, the DNP and the Ministry of Finance were involved and fully
supportive of the project from the very beginning. They participated in key preparation and supervision
missions as well as in the Mid-Term Review. The national authorities monitored the project achievements
carefully to learn from this first experience of application of the decentralization law (Law 715/2001). The
MOE participated in a seminar where the 90 municipalities presented the results and evaluation findings of
the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of SEDUCA during implementation is considered highly satisfactory. A project
coordination unit was established at the level of the Education Secretariat and was made up of an
experienced project coordinator and professional staff. The low turnover of project team coordinators ­
two in five years ­ facilitated adhesion to the project's original strategy and objectives. SEDUCA managed
project implementation excellently as well as adjusting to unexpected changes resulting from the
amendments made in the MTR and QER panel recommendations. The project team was very successful in
dealing with administrative difficulties arising from the decentralization process and the lack of experience
in implementing Bank procurement and financial processes. Except for the accounting officer, the entire
project team belonged to the Secretariat's regular staff.

In particular, the experienced and skilled project coordinator displayed a high degree of commitment,
creativity and professional excellence, which were reflected both in the success of the project and in the
good communications and professional relationships established with the government and Department
political authorities, the SEDUCA structure, municipalities, the academic community, social actors and
NGOs involved in the project.

One of the more remarkable aspects of the project implementation team was its ability to design and
critically adjust the technical assistance model. Several workshops were held to analyze collectively the
experience of dealing with the implementation of the envisaged changes in municipalities and schools.
Most of them were tested and subsequently generalized to all municipalities and schools.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.           In addition to the above comments, the
Borrower: (i) consistently expressed a strong political will to continue education improvement activities;
(ii) made every effort to remove obstacles in the course of the project and consolidated its role in the
provision of good education services; (iii) generated consensus regarding the collective importance of
education for Department's social and economic development; (iv) encouraged the municipalities and
schools to assume their responsibilities under the decentralization process unrestrictedly.

Overall, the Borrower was able to create relevant mechanisms for continuing the improvement of education
in Antioquia, developing conditions for an effective decentralization process, and demonstrating the benefits
of working with strategic partnerships involving the private sector, the academic world and other relevant
social actors.




                                                     - 20 -

8. Lessons Learned

An ICR mission and project completion workshop was held in March 2004 with the active participation of
the project's key stakeholders, including Bank, mayors, school principals, teachers, parents, students and
community representatives, to assess lessons learned during the project. The following factors conditioned
or helped project implementation and thus are important lessons for future sector investments in Colombia
and elsewhere:

a) Dissemination, promotion and enhancement of the awareness of concerned actors are essential to
the success of interventions. An education project aimed at strengthening teaching practices, school
management and the integration of the community into educational processes, based on user demand, must
be owned by all the education actors involved. This is only possible when there is an effective system of
dissemination, promotion and awareness enhancement to encourage these actors to assume a leading role
in: (i) defining educational strategy and policies at the municipal level; (ii) identifying problem areas and
preparing appropriate improvement plans; (iii) managing resources in a decentralized manner; and (iv)
monitoring and evaluating results.

b) Thorough, rigorous diagnostic studies and analyses are necessary when sectors are undergoing
profound transformation. Preparing for first-time sector investments in a context of profound educational
transformation requires a sound basic understanding of the issues relating to: (i) the adoption of new
institutional and pedagogical policies; (ii) the structure and management of the education sector; (iii)
education financing and expenditures; (iv) internal and external efficiency; (v) the quality and equity of
education; and (vi) the appropriateness of project design and targeting criteria.

c) A good technical assistance model is essential to achieve coordination and integration of actions.
The Departmental Secretary of Education learned that the provision of technical assistance by internal and
external experts was effective to achieve capacity-building and empowerment at the municipal and school
level. Technical assistance based on comprehensive and sustained monitoring at the municipal and school
level made it possible to achieve effective coordination of the technical, pedagogical, administrative and
financial processes as a result of: (i) adopting a systems approach and training education actors to
undertake the improvement and coordination of the PEMs (municipal education improvement plans) and
PEIs; (ii) forming teams of change leaders, which made it possible to combine efforts and expedite the
creation of the SILEDs (local education systems) as an alternative to boost pedagogical curriculum
proposals in line with local need; (iii) encouraging the use of the SABER achievement tests as a means of
gaining insight into the students' performance level in basic areas, which contributed to outlining new
methodologies and intervention strategies to improve those levels; and (iv) incorporating pedagogical
concepts to guide the investment of resources, which made it possible to integrate and solve the priority
needs identified by the community.

d) Empowering the educational community and increasing its appreciation of the importance of
education is an essential requirement for implementing projects based on educational demand rather
than supply. Changes in community attitudes regarding the development and importance of education
made it possible to: (i) strengthen the local governments and the system of participation in connection with
concrete objectives; (ii) motivate the principals, teachers, parents and students to seek realistic and
innovative solutions in connection with both pedagogical and administrative management; (iii) generate an
atmosphere of trust between the communities, municipal administrations, schools, JUMES and nucleus
directors (leaders of education programs in a given geographical area who are the interface between the
SEM and the schools) in terms of jointly managing financial resources; (iv) give greater rationality to
defining and implementing the different interventions; and (v) leave an established implementation capacity



                                                    - 21 -

at the Department, municipal and school level through the ownership of the principles and processes of
administrative and financial management.

e) A participatory approach including all key actors and potential beneficiaries enhances effectiveness
and increases impact by ensuring relevance, ownership and accountability. The participation of all
stakeholders not only protects the project from political and economic instabilities, but also reduces
opposition by specific groups. A clear participation strategy is one way of drawing in the community,
which traditionally was alienated from State entities because local governments had failed to engender
trust. Early stakeholder involvement at all levels of project implementation significantly reduces resistance
to change and increases the likelihood of achieving sustainability. Improved community participation
increases the probability of more appropriate and frequent maintenance of the school buildings and the
teaching equipment acquired under project investments.

f) Effective monitoring mechanisms and performance indicators improve implementation. The
municipalities that have greater clarity in their performance, impact and management indicators show better
results, in particular when: (i) follow-up and evaluation are applied from the beginning; (ii) they are
conducted as a simple process, supported by uncomplicated tools and easy application rather than complex
software; and (iii) the results are analyzed systematically and used to guide corrective measures.

g) Increased awareness of the importance of education can lead to increased resources for the sector.
Encouraging the municipalities to consider education as a key factor in local development yields important
benefits. Efforts in this regard demonstrated the capacity of municipalities to mobilize additional resources
for education. Antioquia, like Pasto, set examples of how municipalities might obtain additional resources
for education, either through their own resources, direct negotiations with national bodies or international
cooperation, provided that such applications are supported by clear and coherent plans for the sector that
have visible benefits.

h) The incorporation of the communities in the implementation of financial and accounting processes
optimizes efficiency in applying resources and transparency in their use.               Appropriation by the
communities of the financial planning tools by participating in Strengthening Plans, Operational Plans,
budgets and their respective cash flow resulted in: (i) greater targeting in the use of resources; (ii)
community control of investments; (iii) coordination of the financial process with other project processes;
(iv) the need to provide financial training to Department and municipal officials; and (v) the need to adopt
software as well as financial recording and control systems that are adapted to project requirements.

i) Good project practices should be disseminated for continuous cross-fertilization. Project
implementation improves when good practices are disseminated and cross-fertilization is encouraged among
participating provinces (through training, workshops, seminars, technical assistance, demonstration events
and/or conventions). Pasto and Antioquia, and subsequently the department of Cundinamarca, enjoyed the
benefits of promoting shared support processes or developing initiatives jointly. Pasto, for example,
implemented the music schools model that was developed by the city of Medellin. The three territorial
entities combined forces to develop the student enrollment system in order to meet the requirements of the
capitation system. There is evidence of multiple examples of cooperation yielding technical benefits and
savings of time and resources for the parties involved. Another benefit of mutual support is that it
facilitates working under partnerships arrangements characterized by sharing objectives in a
complementary manner. The Department has not yet been able to fully document and disseminate the
wealth of accomplishments and lessons of the Antioquia Basic Education Project due to the everyday work
and constant crises in the Department (the Governor was kidnapped and held hostage for more than a year
and then killed by the guerrillas). It is important that the Bank and the national level (MOE, DNP) explore


                                                      - 22 -

more deeply, systematize and disseminate the lessons learned in this project. The Bank has started to do this
with sharing the lessons in the preparation of the Cundinamarca project (the third decentralize education
project in Colombia stated 2004) which adopted the technical assistance model practiced by the
Department of Antioquia. Another way of disseminating the lessons learned was an article prepared by the
task manager for the Bank's "En Breve" series.

j) Requirements: flexibility and continuous learning. The project demonstrated the need for flexibility
and continuous learning when promoting a participatory approach in such a complex environment. Under
these conditions, it is necessary to anticipate substantial fluctuation in the implementation rate, depending
on the evolution of the political, economic and social conditions in different parts of the Department. A
continuous monitoring of the situation in the municipalities and schools is necessary for working in the
prevailing environment of armed conflict.

k) Tension between the participatory process and technical requirements, and outcomes of preparing
and implementing the municipal and school projects. The mid-term review identified some tension and
insufficient evidence of positive results with the participatory approach. To deal with this issue, the
Department and the Bank agreed to combine the promotion of education community participation and
development of specific investment projects with external technical support.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary (full text presented in Annex 8)

Below is an unofficial translation of a summary of comments received from the Borrower. The original
contribution in Spanish is presented in Annex 8.

"Challenges, commitments, learning experiences, recognition, respect, trust and the possibility of
continuing to build our future is what we gained through the creation and development of the Basic
Education Quality Improvement Project in Antioquia".

The project, implemented between 1998 and 2003, strengthened education management processes at the
levels of both the Department ­ Secretariat of Education for Culture ­ and the participating municipalities
and schools, of particular importance was the strengthening of the funding of education services, in
anticipation of the current legislation on decentralized management of education services.

The greatest achievement was helping to make education everybody's concern at the Department level and
in most of the municipalities, particularly in the administration, civil society and the education community.
The principles of participation, decentralization, equity, flexibility and transparency are highly valued in
the project, and they have made it possible to create a new culture of commitment to education in
Antioquean society.

The project's focus on allocating more resources to investments aimed at improving the quality of education
in the classroom and in rural schools is unequivocal proof that the principle of equity has always been
present since the design of the project.

On the basis of the sustainability measures that have been put in place and the information provided by the



                                                     - 23 -

SABER achievement tests administered to 100% of the student body, the Secretariat of Education for
Culture will continue to encourage teacher training in the basic areas in accordance with the face-to-face
teaching model managed by the municipalities, and provide assistance to improvements in classroom
pedagogical processes.

Access to education improved during the period of the project, the gap between the more backward
municipalities and those with greater coverage decreased. Over-age enrollment was also reduced as a result
of the service reorganization policies and the contracted coverage-improvement programs.

Investments made by municipalities and schools in teaching aids and materials, library books and furniture,
computer rooms, classroom furniture, equipment for school cafeterias, together with other investments in
building and maintenance of classrooms, sanitation units and recreational areas, have made it possible to
improve pedagogical practices.

Value added as a result of the project included: a change in attitude by mayors, town counselors and the
education community regarding their responsibility for the education of their children and young people,
and in the teachers and principals regarding the management of schools.

The project helped the Department, municipalities and schools to adjust more smoothly to the new
requirements of the legal framework established by Law 715. Antioquia is on the road to bringing the
municipalities and their schools closer together.

The experience in Antioquia, in both preparation and implementing the project, was strengthened by the
excellent assistance provided by the World Bank, along the following general lines: technical assistance in
the design, preparation and supervision of the project, particularly through the assistance provided by
specialized consultants; the capacity to promote and reach harmonious agreements; timely compliance with
the processes established in the loan agreement. The Bank was always present and ready to interact with
Department actors, and provided invaluable assistance in building creative partnerships and ensuring their
sustainability.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
DO 1. Increased Access to basic Education    Target: Increase gross enrollment rate:
(especially preschool, 1st and sixth grade)  Primary 2%
                                             Rural primary 5%
School access is improved at least by 10% in Lower secondary 1.5%
preschool and 5% in lower secondary under
appropriate strategies to each participating
municipality (classroom construction,        Gross enrollment rate in municipalities       Gross enrollment rate in municipalities
contracts with NGOs and/or Rural Programs) covered by the project in 1998                  covered by the project in 2002
                                             Primary = 92.05%                              Primary = 95.52%
                                             Rural Primary = 90.02%                        Rural Primary = 99.65%
                                             Lower Secondary= 64.29%                       Lower Secondary= 74.12%

                                                                                           Variation in gross enrollment rate during
                                                                                           1998 -2002
                                                                                           Primary = 3.8%
                                                                                           Rural Primary =10.7%
                                                                                           Lower Secondary= 15.3%
                                                                                           3.8% annual average increases in lower
                                                                                           secondary education gross enrollment rates

                                             Target: Increase in net enrollment rate:
                                             Primary 2%
                                             Lower secondary 1.5%

                                             Net enrollment rate in municipalities covered Net enrollment rate in municipalities covered
                                             by the project in 1998                        by the project in 2002
                                             Primary = 69.23%                              Primary = 74.12%
                                             Lower Secondary= 42.79%                       Lower Secondary= 57.26%

                                                                                           Variation in net enrollment rate during
                                                                                           1998-2002
                                                                                           Primary = 7.1%
                                                                                           Lower Secondary= 33.8%

                                             School Enrollment in 1998                     School Enrollment in 2002
                                             Target: in municipalities covered
                                             10% increase in preschool


                                             Preschool Enrollment                          Preschool Enrollment
                                             Total: 87,393                                 Total: 104,265
                                             Public sector without Medellín: 34,250        Public sector without Medellín: 37,738
                                             Public sector municipalities covered: 24,077 Public sector municipalities covered: 26.806

                                                                                           Variation in preschool enrollment during
                                                                                           1998-2002 period
                                                                                           Total: 19.3 %
                                                                                           Public sector without Medellín: 10.2%
                                                                                           Public sector municipalities covered: 11.3%

                                             Target: in municipalities covered 2% increase
                                             primary enrollment.

                                             Primary Enrollment                            Primary Enrollment
                                             Total: 640,916                                Total: 667,948
                                             Public sector Antioquia without Medellín:     Public sector Antioquia without Medellín:
                                             381,492                                       383,571
                                             Public enrollment in municipalities covered:  Public enrollment municipalities covered:
                                             281,158                                       287.571

                                                                                           Variation primary enrollment during
                                                                                           1998-2002
                                                                                           Total Antioquia: 4.2%



                                                                - 25 -

                                                                                             Public sector without Medellin: 0.5%
                                                                                             Public sector municipalities covered: 2.3%
                                            Target: in municipalities covered
                                            5% increase in lower secondary

                                            Lower secondary Enrollment                       Lower secondary Enrollment
                                            Total: 345,457                                   Total: 388,329
                                            Public sector without Medellín: 138,169          Public sector without Medellín: 151,695
                                            Public sector municipalities covered: 100,245 Public sector municipalities covered: 123,155
                                                                                             Variation in lower secondary enrollment
                                                                                             during 1998-2002
                                                                                             Total: 12.4%
                                                                                             Public sector without Medellin: 9.8%
                                                                                             Public sector municipalities covered: 22.8%

                                            Enrollment in municipalities covered in 1998:
                                            440,937                                          Enrollment in municipalities covered in 2002:
                                                                                             476,901

                                                                                             Variation in total enrollment during 1998-2002
                                                                                             in municipalities covered: 8.2%

                                                                                             12,415 civil works contributed to increase
                                                                                             access. 2,425 new constructions.
                                                                                             5,125 rehabilitations
                                                                                             4,866 infrastructure maintaining
                                                                                             Furniture provision: (a) For students: 17,443;
                                                                                             (b) For teachers staff: 1.597; (c) For
                                                                                             management staff: 4,587; (d) Libraries
                                                                                             shelves: 1,858; (e) School restaurants: 5,277
DO 2. Improve student retention in Basic    Target: N.A.
Education (primary and lower secondary)
Improvements of at least 10% in retention   Internal efficiency in municipalities covered in Internal efficiency in municipalities covered in
rates (repetition and dropouts              1998 - Approval 1                                2002 - Approval
                                            Preschool: 91.8                                  Preschool: 91.7
                                            Primary: 78.7                                    Primary: 79.7
                                            Lower secondary: 86.8                            Lower secondary: 84.5
                                            Upper secondary: 86.8                            Upper secondary: 90.9
                                            Total: 80.1                                      Total: 82.5

                                            Target: 10% decrease in repetition rate

                                            Repetition Rate 1998
                                            Preschool: 0.0                                   Repetition Rate 2002
                                            Primary: 11.0                                    Preschool: 1.0
                                            Lower Secondary: 14.2                            Primary: 10.4
                                            Upper Secondary: 9.1                             Lower Secondary: 7.9
                                            Total: 11.0                                      Upper Secondary: 4.8
                                                                                             Total: 8.9
                                            Target: 10% decrease in drop out rate
                                            Dropout rate - 1998
                                            Preschool: 8.2
                                            Primary: 10.3                                    Dropout rate - 2002
                                            Lower Secondary: 7.2                             Preschool: 7.3
                                            Upper Secondary: 4.1                             Primary: 9.9
                                            Total: 9.0                                       Lower Secondary: 7.6
                                                                                             Upper Secondary: 4.3
                                            1998 Base Line Department of Antioquia           Total: 8.9
                                            4.41%
                                                                                             2002, Department of Antioquia: 5.4%
DO 3. Improve student learning in Basic     Target: 5% 2 academic achievements test
Education                                   results improve
Student test scores (as proxy of learning)
increased by 5% in municipalities
participating in the project                Academic achievements in municipalities          Academic achievements in municipalities
                                            covered 1998-00 (highest level).                 covered ­ 2002 (highest level).
                                            Grade 3:                                         Grade 3:
                                            Mathematics: 16.4%; Language skills:             Mathematics: 11.5%; Language skills:
                                            36.8%;                                           24.9%;



                                                                - 26 -

                                             Grade 5:
                                             Mathematics: 13.0%; Language skills: 4.4%; Grade 5:
                                             Grade 7:                                   Mathematics: 15.5%; Language skills:
                                             Mathematics: 2.0%; Language skills: 6.5%;  44.5%;

                                             Grade 9:                                   Grade 7:
                                             Mathematics: 0.7%; Language skills: 14.7%. Mathematics: 5.2%; Language skills: 34.2%;

                                             Media Mathematics: 8.0%; Language skills:
                                             15.6%.                                     Grade 9:
                                                                                        Mathematics 8.1%; Language skills: 32.0%.


                                                                                        Media Mathematics: 10.1%; Language skills:
                                                                                        33.9%.




DO 4. Building and strengthening             Target: 1.200 schools
educational and management capacity at all
levels (SEDUCA, Municipal Secretariats of
Education and Schools)

85% of participating schools and
communities provide evidence of the impact
of their projects on the students, teachers
and the community

50% of the 125 municipalities in Antioquia   MTR: 490 Schools covered by the project    Schools covered by project 1,874 56% over
manage autonomously the implementation of                                               the target (including Medellín)
their Education Plans                                                                   Schools covered by project: 1.874
                                                                                        56% over the target




                                             Target: 63 municipalities                  All 125 municipalities manage autonomously
                                                                                        the implementation of their Education Plans-
                                                                                        98% over the stipulated goal.
                                                                                        90 municipalities participating. Five (5)
                                                                                        municipalities over 100.000 inhabitants were
                                                                                        certified during the project implementation
                                                                                        and thirty five (35) are soliciting their
                                                                                        certification




         1 Study : Análisis de las Estrategias de Cobertura Educativa en el Departamento de Antioquia, Corporación para
              el Desarrollo de la Investigación y la Docencia CIDE, May, 2002

           2  In the PAD the target was 10% but it was adjusted to 5% during the MTR




                                                              - 27 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
School investment proposals addressing          Target: 1.200 schools                          In average, in each municipality covered by
retention and learning issues                   MTR: 50% of the schools implementing           the project, 15 schools participated, 3 located
                                                classroom projects                             in the urban area and 12 in the rural area.
Schools and community strengthened and          Target: 1,200 schools                          1,874 schools formulate quality improvement
innovated in school and educational             MTR: 490 schools present pedagogical           plans with pedagogical and administrative
management.                                     innovation projects.                           innovations.

· 201,600 students achieve sustained            Target: 1.200 schools                          The project reached 473,995 students not
improved performance in the areas of            MTR, 50% of the schools implementing           included among those covered by the school
language, mathematics, natural and social       classroom Projects                             places contracting program with the private
sciences.                                                                                      sector.

· 1200 schools present innovative               Target: 1,200 schools                          Teacher training activities benefited all
pedagogical proposals                           MTR: 490 schools present pedagogical           teachers working in the 90 participating
                                                innovation projects.                           municipalities. These programs supported
                                                                                               the proposed pedagogical innovations.

· 1.200 school governments take decisions       Target: 1.200 schools                          1.874 schools are autonomous with respect
autonomously on PEIs and resources.             MTR, 492 schools formulate and implement       to their PEIs, which are elaborated and
                                                their pedagogical plans without financing      updated in a participatory manner. All schools
                                                resources.                                     participating also take decisions
                                                                                               autonomously on their resources- 56.2% over
                                                                                               the initial goal.

· 1.200 schools governments apply               Target: 1.200 schools, 8.640 parents are       1.874 schools councils apply participation
participation processes and self                trained                                        processes and self-management activities
management.                                     MTR, 50% of the school councils apply          -56.2% over the initial goal.
                                                participation processes. 60% of the schools    4.149 parents trained and 259 administration
                                                training for parents (3.060).                  staff.

· 1.200 schools use the SABE 50                 Target: 1.200 schools                          1.874 schools are using a monitoring
information system.                             MTR: 50% of the schools are interested in      program based on Excel. SABE 50 is not
                                                SABE-but SEDUCA does not have the basic more in use.
                                                programs.

· 1.200 schools identify and formulate          Target: 130 Education Nuclei                   In the department of Antioquia 80% of the
community projects and manage resources         MTR: reorganization of the Education Nuclei Education Nuclei support and guide the
130 Education Nuclei support and guide the      at the national level.                         PEIs.
PEIs

· 1.200 schools implement innovations in        Target: 1.200 schools                          1.874 schools implement innovations on
human resources, physical and financial         MTR: 50% of the schools implement              human resources, physical and financial
management.                                     innovations in the area of human, physical     management supported by the local level.-
                                                and financial resources.                       56.2% over the initial goal. Coaching was
                                                                                               provided to 174 schools in information
                                                                                               technologies and systems.
Increased investment in provision of access
for Basic Education services

· Increased number of contracts with quality
private schools for the provision of education

· Increased number of students participating
in rural education strategies, such as tutorial Target: 800 contracts
education (SAT).                                MTR: 500 contracts in existence by
                                                mid-2002.

· Increased number of places in public
schools.                                        Target: Increased number of students           Hiring school places with the private sector +
                                                Hiring school places with the private sector + SAT urban & rural
                                                SAT urban & rural                              2002 = 110,859
                                                1998 = 116,113                                 Variation = (- 4.5%)




                                                                   - 28 -

                                              Target: Increased number of places            Public School Enrollment in municipalities
                                              Public School Enrollment in municipalities    participating
                                              participating                                 2002 = 476,901
                                              1998 = 440,937                                35,964 new school places


Strengthened educational management units Target: 80 municipalities.                        Project deep education decentralization in the
at the municipal level.                                                                     90 municipalities participating, trough
                                                                                            institutional strengthening, managerial
                                                                                            capacity and community participation.

· 80 JUMEs function and take decisions.       Target: 80 JUMEs make decisions               90 - JUMEs function and take decisions
                                              MTR: 41 municipalities work well with the     12,5% over the initial goal.
                                              JUMEs.

· 80 municipalities manage autonomously the Target: 80 municipalities                       90 municipalities manage autonomously the
education service.                            MTR: 41 municipalities work directly with the education services- 12,5% over the initial
                                              JUMEs.                                        goal.

· 80 municipalities making use of tools to    Target: 80 municipalities                     90 municipalities making use of tools to
manage the education services.                MTR: 51% of the municipalities use planning manage the education services- 12,5% over
                                              tools.                                        the initial goal.




                                                                                            The Education Secretariat of the Department
Education Secretariat of the Department                                                     designed and applied a
strengthened to advice and provide technical                                                participative-collaborative technical
assistance to the municipalities.                                                           assistance model, which involves the
                                                                                            different educational actors who work on
                                                                                            improving their own practices.
                                                                                            The model benefited all the municipalities of
                                                                                            the department: 125

· The education Secretariat of Antioquia
implements team work and results- oriented
management models.




· Personnel at the Education Secretariat      Target: N.A.                                  1.856 Change Leading Teams at school
perform educational and technical research    MTR: 80 outreach staff advice and provide     level, and 90 at the municipal level
that is offered to the municipalities and the technical assistance to the municipalities.   9 circuitos de participación.
schools.                                                                                    7 higher education institutions.
                                                                                            23 strategic partnerships.


                                              Target: N.A.                                  90 municipalities were assessed and
                                              MTR: 80 outreach staff works in 69            coached by the department level. 124
                                              municipalities.                               municipalities were benefited of the process,
                                                                                            which includes educational, managerial and
                                                                                            financial assessment.



Communication among and dissemination of
the knowledge, the experiences, the work
systems, the programs and the results,

· The authorities and leaders of 124          Target: 124 municipalities                    Authorities and community leaders of 124
municipalities are informed about the project MTR: 69 municipalities are informed about     municipalities were informed about the
and motivated                                 the project and motivate.                     project and motivated
                                                                                            Education community of the 90 municipalities
                                                                                            participating is committed with project
                                                                                            activities.

· 1,200 schools are selected and committed Target: 1,200 schools                            The other municipalities, 34, know the
to the project                                MTR: 41% of the schools to be targeted are    project.




                                                                - 29 -

                                            committed and work with project resources.

· The project experiences in 1,200 schools, Target: 80 municipalities and 1200 schools The Education Secretariat of the Department
80 municipalities and the Department are    MTR: SEDUCA programs the                   designed a diffusion program to highlight and
disseminated by SEDUCA.                     implementation of a dissemination program  disseminate positive experiences provided by
                                            on ongoing experiences in schools          the project among all the municipalities and
                                            management.                                all schools.




1End of project




                                                              - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


          Annex 2a. Project Costs and Financing by Component (in US$ million)
Project component           Appraisal        Revised      Actual/lates         % of
                            Estimate 1/      Estimate 2/  t                   Actual
                                                          Estimate           /Estimate
Schools and                      49.0            23.4          16.4            70.1
Communities
Municipal Education              20.0            25.0          25.0           100.0
Services
Departmental                     11.0            8.8           11.7           132.9
Education Services
Total 1/                         80.0            57.2          53.1            93.0


1/ Including physical and price contingencies
2/ MTR June , 2001




                                                        - 31 -

        Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
    Expenditure             Procurement method                    Procurement method Actual
      Category               Appraisal estimate                           Estimate
                         ICB       NCB       Other    Total        ICB       NCB       Other    Total
Works
New Classroom                       2.3      4.1 a/      6.4                  0.4        3.6       4.0
Const. & School                    (1.15)    (2.05)      (3.2)               (0.2)      (2.0)     (2.2)
Rehabilitation
Goods
Computer and              2.8       1.2     5.1 a/b/     9.1        0.8                  4.1       4.9
Communication            (1.4)      (0.6)    (2.55)    (2.55)      (0.7)       -        (2.6)     (3.3)
Equipment,
Didactic Materials,
Furniture
Consultants'                                24.0c/       24.0                           27.8      26.8
Services: TA,                                (12.0)    (12.0)                          (18.0)    (18.0)
Training, PCU,
Agreements with
NGOs
School Grants \d                            41.3/a       41.3                           16.4      16.4
                                            (20.65)                                    (16.0)    (16.0)
                                                       (20.65)
Total                     2.8       3.5       74.4       80.7       0.8       0.4       51.9       53.1
                          (1.4)               (37.2)               (0.7)     (0.2)     (38.6)     (39.5)
                                  (1.75)               (40.35)

Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan
a/ At least three quotations.
b/ LIB Computer and Communications Equipment US$4.1; Shopping US$1.0 million
c/ Consultant Services: US$3.1 QCBS; US$8.7 million Least-Cost Selection; US$5.7 million (NGOs) Fixed
Budget; US$6.5 million Individual Consultants
d/ School Grants funds will be allocated to 1,200 schools in 80 municipalities. Procurement may include goods
(computer equipment, didactic materials,
supplies, furniture), technical assistance (fellowships, workshops, teachers' investigations and training), and
services (dissemination campaigns,
 transportation, rental of conference rooms, meetings, etc). Procurement will be carried out upon identification of
needs by each school, up to an
allocated amount per school assigned by category of municipality, on the basis of established ceilings and
procurement methods described
in the Procurement Manual acceptable to the Bank, and up to an aggregate amount of US$43.1 million.




                                                       - 32 -

                   Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                     Total             PARI-PASU                           E X E C U T I O N
     Components      PAD           IBRD             Local           IBRD               Local     Total
                     (US$)    (US$)      %      (US$)    %      (US$)       %      (US$)    %   (US$)
1. School (colegio)   49.0     24.5      50      24.5 50         16.0      97.6      0.4   2.4   16.4
and community
strengthening
2. Municipal          20.0     10.0      50      10.0    50      14.6      58.4     10.4   41.6  25.0
education
management and
investments
3. Departmental       11.0      5.5   50          5.5    50      8.9       76.1      2.8   23.9  11.7
Education Services
Total project cost    80.0      40.0  50         40.0    50      39.5      74.0     13.6   26.0  53.1
1/
1/ Including physical and price contingencies




                                                     - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/17/1995                2    Education Specialist (1), Social
                                             Sector Specialist (1)
              05/06/1996                4    Task Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Consultant (1), Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1), Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1), Resident
                                             Representative (1);
              08/08/1996                6    Task Team Leader (1), Education
                                             Specialist (1), education
                                             Consultant (1), Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1), NGO Specialist
                                             (1), Community Participation
                                             Consultant (1)
              10/22/1996                1    Economist/Cost Effectiveness
                                             Specialist (1)
              12/02/1996                6    Task Team Leader (1), Education
                                             Specialist (2), Institutional
                                             Stregthening Specialist (1),
                                             Education Economist (1), Social
                                             Sector Specialist (1),
              02/02/1997                7    Task Team Leader (1), education
                                             Specialist (1), Institutional
                                             Stregthening Specialist, Social
                                             Sector Specialist (1), Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
                                             Project Assistant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/09/1997                7    Task Team Leader (1),
                                             Education Specialist (1),
                                             Institutional Stregthening
                                             Specialist (1), Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1), Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Project Assistant (1)
              09/17/1997              11     Task Team Leader (1), Lawyer
                                             (1), Disbursement Officer (1),
                                             Disbursement Analyst (1),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist(1), Institutional
                                             Stregthening Specialist (1),
                                             Social Sector Specialist (1),
                                             Project Assistant (1), Financial



                                              - 35 -

                            Products Specialists (2).

Supervision
           01/22/1998     1 Task Team Leader (1)                S    S
            02/05/1998    1   Task Team Leader (1)

           03/20/1998     5 Project Officer (1); Task           S    S
                            Manager (1); Fin. Mgt Specialist
                            (1); Consultant (1); Procurement
                            Assistant (1)
           06/04/1998     3 Task Manager (1); Social            S    S
                            Scientist (1); Consultant (1)
           10/29/1998     3 Task Manager (1); Operations        S    S
                            Specialist (1); Education & Peace
                            Spec (1)
           04/30/1999     4 Task Manager (1); Social Sector     S    S
                            Specialist (1); Education
                            Specialist (1); Consultant (1)
           08/03/1999     2 Education Specialist (1);           S    S
                            Institutional Dev. Spec. (1).
           03/16/2000     5 Institutional Development (1);      S    S
                            Operations Specialist (1);
                            Community Participation (1);
                            Evaluation Specialist (1);
                            Management & Organization (1)
           03/06/2001     6 Education Specialist (1);           U    U
                            Consultan in
                            Institut.Development (1); Inform
                            Systems consultant (1); Financial
                            Management Spec (1);
                            Procurement Analyst (1);
                            Procurement Specialist (1)
           06/14/2001     7 Educ Spec (1); Procurement          S    S
                            Specialist (1); Instutional
                            .Strengthening Specialist (1);
                            Consultant (1); Consultant,
                            Procurement (1); Evaluation
                            Spec. (1); Information Systems
                            Spec. (1)
           12/19/2001     1 Task Team Leader, Education         S    S
                            Specialist (1)
           06/14/2002     4 Task Team Leader (1);               S    S
                            Consultant (1); Participation
                            Spec. (1); MIS Specialist (1)
           11/27/2002     4 Task Team Leader (1);               S    S
                            Consultant (3)
           03/13/2003     5 Task Team Leader (1);               S    S
                            Consultant (4)
           11/24/2003     3 Task Team Leader Leader (1);        S    S
                            Financial Mgt. Specialist (1);
                            Education Specialist (1),
                            Statistics and Social Evaluation
                            Consultant (1), Information



                            - 36 -

                                           Systems Specialist (1).

 ICR
               03/26/2004             3     Task Team Leader (1),              S    S
                                            Education Specialist (1),
                                            Impact Evaluation
                                            Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           26.48                      143,000.92
  Appraisal/Negotiation                27.81                      150,203.26
  Supervision                           67.9                      394,618.08
  ICR                                  11.86                       69,593.58
  Total                              134.05                       757,415.58




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                                            Study                                          Year
Bank preparation documents
Local Government Capacity Building- Beyond Technical Assistance                             1995
Project Financial Sustainability                                                            1999
Financial Sustainability of the Project (Department , Municipalities and Schools)         1997/1998
Antioquia Government Indebtedness capacity analysis                                       1997/1998
Poverty in Colombia                                                                         1994
Study of Fiscal and Economic Impact                                                         1997
Review of Public Expenditures on education in Antioquia during fiscal decentralization      1997
1991-1995
Social Analysis                                                                             1997
Institutional Analysis                                                                      1997
Bank project implementation documents
Midterm Review                                                                              2000
Quality Enhancement Review -QER-                                                            2001
Main Documents prepared by the Borrower during project implementation
Estrategia de Asesoría de SEDUCA                                                            1998
Estrategia "En Antioquia cada escuela una Zona Franca de Paz"                               1998
Educación Rural para Antioquia                                                              1999
Redes Educativas para el Saber                                                              1999
Modelos Pedagógicos Culturales                                                              1999
Proceso de Planificación Estratégica Situacional de SEDUCA ­ PES-                           2000
Diseño de herramientas para el mejoramiento de la gestión escolar                           2000
Intervenciones del proyecto de mejoramiento de la calidad en la educación básica en         2001
Antioquia por área y por nivel
Programa para padres de familia                                                             2000
La escuela como cátedra viva de convivencia y paz                                           2000
Análisis de las estrategias de cobertura educativa en el departamento de Antioquia          2002
Educación Equidad y Competitividad Regional                                                 2002
Educación para la Construcción de Cultura de Paz                                            2002
Gestión local de la educación- lecciones de una experiencia- caso de Sabaneta               2002
Análisis de la articulación y estructura de intervención de los sistemas de educación y     2003
económico para el desarrollo competitivo de Medellín y Antioquia
Propuesta conceptual- reflexiones y sugerencias metodológicas para la articulación entre    2003
los PEI y PEM
Impact Evaluation Study, CEDE, Uniandes                                                    2003




                                                         - 40 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner's comments

1. OBJETIVOS DE DESARROLLO


Retos, compromisos, aprendizajes, reconocimiento, respeto, confianza y posibilidades de seguir
construyendo nuestro futuro, fue lo que permitió la construcción y desarrollo del Proyecto de Mejoramiento
de la Calidad de la Educación Básica en Antioquia.


El Proyecto, ejecutado entre 1998 y el 2003, fortaleció los procesos de gestión de la educación, tanto en el
Departamento- Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura- como en los municipios e instituciones educativas
participantes, muy especialmente los referidos a la planificación del servicio educativo y del proyecto, la
administración del servicio y del proyecto, los procesos pedagógicos locales y de instituciones y los
relativos a los aspectos financieros, destacándose el fortalecimiento de los fondos de servicios educativos,
anticipándonos a la legislación vigente sobre administración descentralizada del servicio educativo.

El mayor logro consistió en la contribución para hacer de la educación en el departamento y en la mayoría
de sus municipios un asunto de todos, especialmente de las administraciones, la sociedad civil y la
comunidad educativa en particular.         Los principios de participación, descentralización, equidad,
flexibilidad y transparencia son de gran valor para el proyecto, pues han permitido generar una nueva
cultura de compromiso en la sociedad antioqueña frente a la educación.

Para lograr su implementación según los principios anteriormente enunciados el Proyecto mismo lideró la
reflexión acerca de la     "mejor manera" de acompañar a las comunidades educativas departamental,
municipal y de instituciones educativas en sus búsquedas propias para ser más eficientes y eficaces en la
prestación del servicio educativo y en el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación que se imparte en las
instituciones educativas.   En este proceso la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura de Antioquia,
involucró un número significativo de sus funcionarios en esta reflexión, la que fue propuesta con un
enfoque de investigación ­ acción ­ participación y condujo a la construcción colectiva del Modelo de
Asesoría Participativa ­ Colaborativa: Escenario de Encuentro de Actores Educativos y Culturales, el que
no sólo expresa renovadas formas de relación entre la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura de
Antioquia, sus Municipios y Comunidades Educativas, sino que, en el ejercicio mismo del acompañamiento
requerido, se convierte en una      "herramienta que orienta, dinamizan y acompaña la construcción y
desarrollo de nuevas y mejores acciones educativas en Antioquia".

Son igualmente propios del Modelo el reconocimiento de intereses, la construcción de reglas de juego, la
negociación, la concertación y la generación de consensos para la acción y la ejecución de lo acordado.

Así mismo, desarrolla escenarios de devolución que significan autonomía, confianza en sí mismo,
valoración de la palabra;     expresión de los sueños, de las necesidades, de la capacidad de actuar,
potenciando a cada participante, como persona con desempeños exitosos y capacidad para transformarse en
el ejercicio cotidiano de mejorar la calidad de la educación y aportar a la transformación del entorno y sus
actores. En esta perspectiva, la asesoría es un proceso pedagógico que desarrolla ciclos de aprendizaje en
espiral, que incluyen la observación, la indagación, la planificación, la acción, la reflexión sobre la acción,
la evaluación y retroalimentación, en un permanente aprender haciendo.

El Modelo y las dinámicas que propone, permiten identificar, en grupos, equipos y organizaciones, las
necesidades de asesoría, de asistencia técnica o de capacitación. La primera como "servicios que orientan,



                                                    - 41 -

acompañan y dinamizan los procesos, las propuestas y las acciones desde una perspectiva global e integral,
ayuda a las personas a percibir y comprender la problemática de la calidad de la educación y los modos de
influir en ella para mejorarla. La segunda como "acompañamiento puntual sobre una temática o problema
específico", y la tercera como "desarrollo de conocimientos, habilidades y destrezas que posibilitan el
mejoramiento de los desempeños personales, laborales y sociales.

La exclusión y la iniquidad son manifestaciones de los problemas más complejos de desarrollo humano que
presenta el Departamento de Antioquia. Teniendo en cuenta lo anterior, la focalización del Proyecto en la
zona rural, con una mayor asignación de recursos para las inversiones orientadas a la calidad de la
educación en el aula y la institución educativa por alumno rural de $ 210.000, frente a $110.000 por
alumno de la zona urbana, son una prueba inequívoca que desde el diseño del Proyecto, siempre estuvo
presente el principio de equidad. Las mayores inversiones se realizaron en la zona rural y el urbano
marginal de los municipios, las que históricamente han sido marginadas de los proyectos de desarrollo.

La dinámica del Proyecto permitió potenciar la participación de la comunidad educativa, utilizando e
impulsando instancias ya constituidas y normatizadas como es el caso del gobierno escolar. Estos
mecanismos existen desde la Ley 115 o Ley de Educación, pero la comunidad educativa o no los conocía o
no existían los mecanismos para acercarse a la institución educativa y ejerces sus derechos en bien de la
educación.     En este caso el Proyecto logró articular la posibilidad de        apoyar el ejercicio de la
administración de la escuela con la activación de esta instancia de participación y lograr la autonomía
institucional, promovida como uno de los principios de la descentralización.

El Modelo de Asesoría en acción, recrea relaciones e interacciones entre funcionarios de la Secretaría,
alcaldes, concejales, funcionarios de la administración municipal, secretarios de educación, directores de
núcleo, representantes de las JUMES (Juntas Municipales de Educación) y de los consejos directivos,
estudiantes, padres de familia, docentes, líderes comunales, agentes del sector productivo, dueños y
programadores de medios, representantes de los distintos sectores del Estado, los que conforman equipos de
trabajo denominados "equipos líderes del cambio", en pro de la calidad de la educación, despliegan sus
acciones con espíritu de colaboración, valoran el rol asesor, no solo de la secretaría sino también de
instituciones aliadas que asumieron el mismo rol, el padrinazgo, la cooperación, los planes concertados,
los presupuestos, las problemáticas comunes y su capacidad para intervenirlas.

El Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación Básica en Antioquia fue concebido desde su
diseño como una "estrategia de cambio" que propone intervenciones en formación de los actores
educativos, en algunos factores que explican los resultados de logros cognitivos y convivenciales en la
búsqueda del mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación de niños, niñas y jóvenes del departamento. Es
claro desde aquel momento, que se trata de lograr que ellos "aprendan lo que tienen que aprender, en el
momento en que lo tienen que aprender y que lo aprendan con felicidad".

La formación de docentes con énfasis en las áreas básicas de matemáticas y lenguaje, la mejora de los
ambientes de aprendizaje en el aula, la adecuación de los espacios físicos para interactuar, el mejoramiento
de las condiciones físicas de las instituciones como unidades sanitarias, restaurantes escolares, zonas de
recreación y de las herramientas pedagógicas y material didáctico apropiado, han permitido la dignificación
de la educación pública en los municipios del departamento, propiciando la armonización de las relaciones
entre los diferentes actores educativos y culturales.

En lo pedagógico, las nuevas y positivas condiciones relacionadas con la enseñanza y el aprendizaje en las
instituciones educativas participantes (1.874), tendrán que reflejarse con el tiempo, con mayor énfasis, en
algunas áreas de la educación. En efecto, la enseñanza del lenguaje y las matemáticas se fortaleció, así


                                                     - 42 -

como los modelos de gestión escolar y comunitaria, factores todos éstos que contribuyen al mejoramiento
de la calidad de la educación. Estas acciones deberán tener diferentes pero decididos grados de continuidad
en los municipios e instituciones, acompañadas de un buen ejercicio de organización del servicio, es decir,
en ordenar la matrícula, garantizando la prestación del servicio en todos los niveles, sin los traumatismos
que antes eran comunes, en el momento de pasar de la primaria a la secundaria o de ésta a la media.

2.      LOGROS

2.1.    Calidad de la educación

Al terminar esta primera fase del proyecto de mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación básica en
Antioquia, los resultados     en Calidad de la Educación medidos en las pruebas SABER, tuvieron
comportamientos erráticos y poco concluyente, dejando entrever que hubo un avance en las pruebas de
lenguaje y avances poco significativos en matemáticas en algunos niveles y retroceso en otros, producto
posiblemente de los procesos de violencia a que ha estado sometida la población, especialmente rural.

A pesar de las intervenciones exitosas en condiciones pedagógicas, los resultados en calidad expresados a
través de las pruebas de logro saber, en las áreas en matemáticas y lenguaje, no indican efectos
importantes del proyecto. Las acciones de capacitación de profesores se basaron en estrategias globales,
bien fundamentadas y desarrolladas con apoyos de instituciones formadoras de formadores en las
localidades; se realizaron procesos pertinentes para vincular los recursos didácticos con los enfoques y
modelos pedagógicos y con las áreas del currículo y la capacitación ofrecida para optimizar su utilización.
Sin embargo fue muy tardía la intervención y no se logró la cobertura deseada.

Cabe esperar que con las políticas de sostenibilidad diseñadas y la información proporcionada por las
pruebas de censales de logro "SABER", la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura continúe impulsando
los procesos de formación en las áreas básicas, de acuerdo al modelo de gestión presencial por municipio,
con acompañamiento en los procesos de aula en las instituciones, tal como se realizó recientemente a través
de las Universidades de Antioquia, Nacional, Fundación Universitaria Luis Amigó y las Escuelas Normales
Superiores.



2.2.    Cobertura

Antioquia es un departamento cuya estructura poblacional por género y grupos etáreos difiere bastante del
resto del país. La población menor de 26 años corresponde al 60% de la población, mientras que para el
total nacional esta población corresponde al 65%. Igualmente, existe una mayor proporción de mujeres en
Antioquia frente a todo el país. (Uniandes, 2.004)

De otro lado el crecimiento poblacional es menor en el departamento frente al resto del país, lo que hace
que el departamento de Antioquia presente una demografía más favorable para el incremento de la
cobertura educativa ( López, H 2.003)

El acceso a la educación mejoró durante el período de desarrollo del proyecto, notándose principalmente en
un aumento en primaria y secundaria, especialmente en el ámbito urbano, cumpliéndose las metas
establecidas. Tanto en cobertura bruta como neta, se cierra la brecha entre los municipios más atrasados y
los de mayor cobertura. Igualmente se redujeron las extraedades, como efecto de las políticas tanto de
reorganización del servicio como de los programas de cobertura contratada.




                                                  - 43 -

            MATRÍCULA DEL DEPARTAMENTO DE ANTIOQUIA* SEGÚN NIVELES
                                            Y ZONAS PERÍODO 1998-2002
                       1998                           2002                                 1998                    2002

              TOTAL                         TOTAL                                  TOTAL                    TOTAL
                                             MAT.          TASA                      MAT.         TASA        MAT.     TASA
  PRE-          MAT.           TASA       (OFICIAL         ESCO                   (OFICIAL ESCO-              (OFI-    ESCO
ESCOLA     (OFICIAL Y ESCOLAR                    Y          LAR         PRIMA          Y           LAR      CIAL Y     LAR
   R        PRIVADA)                      PRIVADA                         RIA     PRIVADA                  PRIVADA
RURAL            16.2           41,84         15.6         42,95        RURAL        221.8         92,41      223.0    104,44
                                                                        URBA-
URBANO           71.1           93,76         88.6         107,76          NO        419.0         89,35      444.8    93,56
 TOTAL           87.3           76,16         104.2        87,90        TOTAL        640.9         90,38      667.9    96,94
SECUND
 A-RIA                 1998                           2002              MEDIA              1998                    2002

RURAL            50.7           31,66          60.0         44,13       RURAL        6.841         11,69       10.7    17,40
                                                                        URBA-
URBANO           294.7          95,48         328.3        109,04          NO       106.06         88,89      120.7    82,00
 TOTAL           345.4          73,67         388.3         88,84       TOTAL        112.9         63,49      131.5    62,87
Fuente: Estadísticas Educativas Seduca. Departamento de Antioquia.
     *Cálculos realizados sobre la Matricula oficial y privada de los niveles y Zonas de todos los Municipios de
     Antioquia
     **Incluye la matricula de Medellín, oficial y privada.




                                                                   - 44 -

3.       LOGROS POR COMPONENTES SUBCOMPONENTES

3.1      Inversión acumulada 1.998-2.004


                                                                                       INVERSIÓN
          COMPONENTES Y                 INVERSIÓN      INVERSIÓN       INVERSIÓN      ACUMULADA
         SUBCOMPONENTES                 1998-2000      2001-2003       2004             1998-2004

PROYECTO DE MEJORAMIENTO
DE LA CALIDAD DE LA
EDUCACION BASICA EN
ANTIOQUIA                               28.158.120.218 101.791.781.831 12.933.383.267 142.883.285.316
FORTALECIMIENTO DEL
COLEGIO Y SU COMUNIDAD
EDUCATIVA                               10.289.985.353 35.406.990.711 2.158.837.504     47.855.813.568
Fortalecimiento Pedagógico e
innovaciones Educativas                 10.256.985.353 31.877.465.596  1.990.535.058    44.124.986.007
Fortalecimiento de la Gestión Escolar y
Comunitaria                             33.000.000     3.529.525.115   168.302.446        3.730.827.561

TRANSFORMACION DE LA
GESTION EDUCATIVA MUNICIPAL 7.840.590.750              43.753.067.977 4.557.190.300     56.150.849.027

Fortalecimiento de la Gestión y
Administración de la Educación Local    158.979.427    8.202.240.837   738.534.014        9.099.754.278

Mejoramiento de Cobertura               7.681.611.323  35.550.827.140  3.818.656.286    47.051.094.749

CAPACIDAD DE GESTION
EDUCATIVA DEL DEPARTAMENTO 10.027.544.115              22.631.723.143 6.217.355.463     38.876.622.721

Fortalecimiento Institucional SEDUCA,
Desarrollo de Sistemas de Información   7.555.852.389  7.375.841.465  2.842.551.476     17.774.245.330
Fortalecimiento del Sistema de
seguimiento                             1.442.583.657  3.005.370.429  846.758.484         5.294.712.570

Administración de la Comunicación
Estratégica para el Cambio              1.029.108.069  718.389.218     332.671.634        2.080.168.921

COBERTURA                                              11.532.122.031  2.195.373.869    13.727.495.900


Las necesidades básicas educativas aún existen en la mayoría de las instituciones y municipios, pero son
menores en relación con las existentes al inicio del Proyecto. La educación en Antioquia ha cambiado la
cara de las instituciones participantes y con ello se han producido cambios fundamentales en sus ambientes
de convivencia, físicos y académicos.

Las inversiones ejecutadas por municipios e instituciones para dotación de ayudas y material didáctico,
textos y mobiliario para bibliotecas, salas de cómputo, mobiliario escolar, implementos para restaurantes
escolares, permiten, junto con las realizadas para construcción y mantenimiento de aulas, unidades
sanitarias y espacios recreativos que confluyan elementos significativos para generar cambios en las
practicas pedagógicas.

Son valores agregados del proyecto: el cambio de actitud de los alcaldes y concejales y comunidad
educativa frente a su responsabilidad por la educación de sus niños, niñas y jóvenes y de los docentes y
directivos docentes en relación con su gestión al interior de la institución. Aquellos aprendieron a ejecutar
un proyecto, dándole amplia participación a la comunidad educativa representada en la JUME, incluyendo



                                                      - 45 -

los procesos de planeación, administración, seguimiento y rendición de cuentas para hacer así realidad el
desarrollo de los Planes Educativos Municipales (PEM) y éstos a ejecutar el proyecto, dándole
participación a los gobiernos escolares para hacer realidad los Proyectos Educativos Institucionales (PEI).
Gestión participativa que posibilitó a la comunidad educativa la apropiación de los proyectos que se
realizaban en su entorno, a través de los "equipos líderes de cambio" y las "veedurías", logrando, además,
una aprovechamiento adicional de los recursos, incluyendo 10 municipios y 600 instituciones educativas
más de las programadas inicialmente. Esto representa de alguna manera el nivel de descentralización que el
departamento ha posibilitado a la educación en Antioquia.

3.2.     Fortalecimiento Institucional

A partir de 1.996, en Colombia, los 23 Departamentos se certificaron ante el Ministerio de Educación
Nacional, para orientar autónomamente la educación, es decir, no solo administrar el servicio con sus
recursos, sino orientar el proceso de descentralización hacia el otro nivel, facilitando el proceso de
autonomía de los municipios y de sus instituciones educativas. Este Proyecto fortaleció institucionalmente
a la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura, no solo en sus procesos y tecnología de información y
comunicación, seguimiento y evaluación, sino que construyó colectivamente el "modelo de asesoría
colaborativo- participativa como escenario de encuentro de actores educativos y culturales", el cual ha
permitido el acercamiento a la comunidad educativa con herramientas que posibilitan la construcción
colectiva local de la propuesta para la identificación de sus problemas y la definición de estrategias
programas y proyectos para su posible solución, pasando lógicamente por la reflexión de cómo administrar
mejor el servicio y cómo realizar las inversiones, de tal manera que aporten al proceso de mejoramiento de
la calidad de la educación de los niños, niñas y jóvenes de las instituciones de sus municipios. El espíritu
de la descentralización, es hacer que el municipio, maneje con responsabilidad, apropiación y buen criterio
su educación. Antioquia con el proyecto ha recorrido un camino de aprendizajes sobre la administración de
su educación y la prestación de un mejor servicio educativo y muy especialmente en el cómo acercarse a las
administraciones locales y sus instituciones con actitud de respeto, generando confianza y credibilidad en
las comunidades, lo que ha redundado en el crecimiento de la autonomía de los municipios, instituciones y
comunidades educativas.

Algunos de los aspectos fundamentales en los que el proyecto demuestra sus logros en materia de desarrollo
institucional, son los siguientes, teniendo como referente la Ley 715:

·        Subsistema Educativo Departamental fortalecido en su organización, en su articulación con otros
         sectores y organizaciones.
·        Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura Departamental fortalecida y enriquecida en herramientas
         de administración y gestión, desde el trabajo interinstitucional e intersectorial y con alianzas
         estratégicas definidas.
·        Todos los colegios públicos y privados del Departamento cuentan con resultados de pruebas
         SABER en matemáticas y lenguaje que les permitirá definir Planes de Mejoramiento, con el apoyo
         de la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura y el Ministerio de Educación Nacional.
·        Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura fortalecida en sus sistemas de información y tecnología,
         para enfrentar procesos de seguimiento, evaluación y rendición de cuentas a las comunidades.
·        La Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura con un modelo de Asesoría y Asistencia Técnica
         "colaborativa-participativa" que orienta y reconoce la capacidad de las comunidades educativas y
         con herramientas que permiten potenciar los procesos de construcción participativa de soluciones a
         los problemas educativos locales e institucionales.
·        Subsistemas locales de educación avanzando hacia procesos de organización y legitimación.



                                                    - 46 -

·        Modelo de Gestión Educativa Descentralizado, construido y apropiado por los actores educativos
         departamentales, locales, institucionales y avanzando hacia espacios de autonomía y autogestión.
·        Actores educativos institucionales apropiados del proceso de gestión: organizando, planeando,
         programando, ejecutando y evaluando procesos y proyectos de manera participativa, eficiente y
         transparente.
·        Actores educativos y culturales movilizados y comprometidos frente a lo educativo y conscientes
         de la importancia de la educación para el mejoramiento de la calidad de vida de las comunidades.
·        Instituciones y Centros Educativos, fortalecidos en los procesos de gestión administrativa,
         pedagógica, de convivencia escolar y comunitaria.
·        Municipios e Instituciones y Centros Educativos fortalecidos en los procesos comunicacional ­
         participativo, organizativo ­ planificador, financiero, de seguimiento, evaluación y sistematización.
·        Actores educativos en proceso de formación para el desarrollo de competencias cognitivas y
         sociales y avanzando hacia procesos de evaluación coherente con los mismos, especialmente en
         matemáticas y lenguaje y convivencia escolar.
·        Comunidades educativas organizadas y trabajando frente al tema de la convivencia escolar y
         comunitaria.
·        En buen número de municipios el proceso pedagógico ­ curricular ha tenido desarrollos exitosos en
         relación con diseños curriculares pertinentes, desarrollo de competencias en matemáticas y lengua
         castellana, construcción de la Cátedra Municipal, revisión de planes de estudio, planes de área y
         proyectos de aula.
·        La mayoría de las instituciones crean y fortalecen los Fondos de Servicio Educativos, para la
         ejecución directa de sus recursos construyendo colectivamente, y con el acompañamiento de la
         secretaría de educación para la Cultura, la "pedagogía de la inversión".
·        La mayoría de municipios e instituciones participantes realizaron intervenciones en factores
         asociados a la calidad de la educación (mejoramiento de a ambientes de aprendizaje: Aulas,
         unidades sanitarias, restaurantes escolares, espacios recreativos y culturales, laboratorios, salas de
         cómputo, ayudas educativas etc.) y movilizar redes de apoyo en pro del bienestar y la formación de
         los estudiantes.

En resumen, el desarrollo del Proyecto generó en la comunidad educativa departamental, municipal e
institucional procesos de participación, organización y formación, conducentes al análisis de su realidad y a
la formulación y gestión de planes de desarrollo educativo más contextualizados, de tal manera que las
comunidades orienten sus procesos de organización y formación a partir del conocimiento de su propia
realidad, necesidades y capacidades, para definir alternativas de solución a los problemas más sentidos,
teniendo como referentes las políticas nacionales y departamentales al respecto.

Su desarrollo preparó al departamento, municipios e instituciones para asumir con mayor propiedad los
nuevos requerimientos del marco jurídico establecido por la ley 715.           Es decir, Antioquia continua
recorriendo un camino con relación al acercamiento a los municipios y sus instituciones educativas que
hoy, como lo exige la ley, no solo deben ser fusionadas sino que deben fortalecerse en su autonomía, de tal
manera que logren mejores condiciones para impartir una educación más pertinente, en mejores ambientes
de convivencia donde los niños sean felices aprendiendo.

4.       FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LOS RESULTADOS DEL PROYECTO

4.1.     Factores que estuvieron por fuera del control de la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura
como ejecutora del proyecto o del Banco




                                                      - 47 -

Sin lugar a dudas, la ejecución del Proyecto fue acompañada por cambios continuos en las condiciones de
seguridad ciudadana necesarias para un desarrollo más eficiente de los recursos y un cambio continuo de
la normatividad del sector. Estos cambios a pesar de que son asimilados por los actores directos con los
que el Proyecto trabajó, tal es el caso, de los constantes desplazamientos de la población por conflictos
armados, la racionalización del sector, la integración de las instituciones educativas, y la reciente
evaluación de los docentes y directivos docentes, es necesario reconocer que generaron traumatismos para
el desarrollo del proyecto.

Igualmente los cambios de administraciones, departamental y especialmente municipales, tres de cada nivel
durante la vida del proyecto, trajeron sus consecuentes retrasos, especialmente por la falta de comprensión
del modelo de ejecución del proyecto en forma tan descentralizada hacia municipios e instituciones con la
consecuente responsabilidad local e institucional.

Un aspecto que no puede dejarse de mencionar y que fue dificultad permanente durante el desarrollo del
proyecto fue la poca capacidad y conocimientos renovados en términos de competencias básicas (lenguaje y
matemáticas) y estándares, de la oferta de formación de las universidades del departamento, especialmente
las facultades de educación, para enfrentar el reto de un modelo de gestión del proceso de la capacitación
más presencial local y con incidencia en el trabajo de aula, tal como se definió en el proyecto.

Por otro lado, la política de modernización de la gobernación de Antioquia, desde el punto de vista de los
sistemas de información corporativos, como los del sistema financiero, implantado recientemente, redujo la
eficiencia del proyecto para terminar en el tiempo que se tenía previsto.

4.2.    Factores que estaban bajo el control del Gobierno

El ajuste fiscal que tuvieron que realizar el departamento y los municipios en parte explican el retrazo al
comienzo del proyecto, lo que obligó a replantear la cofinanciación definida en principio, ajustándola de tal
manera que oxigenó financieramente al departamento y municipios participantes.

La administración departamental avanza en la modernización de sus procesos y procedimientos, pero aún
no es lo suficientemente ágil, ni el personal ha asimilado los cambios propuestos, lo que trajo consigo
importantes retrasos en la ejecución del Proyecto.

La normatividad vigente en materia de contratación y la que el Proyecto convino en sus manuales de
operación, ocasionó algunas dificultades de asimilación por parte de funcionarios que por su nivel fueron
claves durante la ejecución del Proyecto, causando algunas demoras y trabas en la ejecución y algún grado
de desgaste. Sin duda, una actitud contraria hubiere redundado en mayores capacidades de ejecución y
alcance de logros.

5.      SOSTENIBILIDAD

El Plan de Sostenibilidad de las experiencias exitosas del proyecto contempla el reconocimiento de las
mismas y el desarrollo de un conjunto de estrategias de carácter técnico ­ pedagógico, de administración y
gestión que se inscriben en los desarrollos constitucionales y legales (Leyes 115/94 y 715/ 2.001) y
procesos planificadores de cierta maduración que viene desarrollando Antioquia, los que enunciaremos
brevemente:

1. En el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Educativo: La Revolución Educativa, el cual advierte: "El país
necesita una revolución educativa provista de participación comunitaria, que avance hacia la cobertura


                                                    - 48 -

universal, la buena calidad, con acceso democrático.         Una Educación crítica, ética, tolerante con la
diversidad y comprometida con el medio ambiente".

2. En el Plan Estratégico de Antioquia (PLANEA) el cual propone un nuevo Modelo de Desarrollo para el
Departamento y un camino para lograrlo. Bases del Modelo son: Una sociedad equitativa, una economía
competitiva e influyente, un desarrollo sostenible, gobernabilidad democrática, ocupación territorial
equitativa, integrada y en armonía con la naturaleza, un territorio con identidad cultural propia y una
sociedad que se comunica y aprende. Al interior de las líneas estratégicas que enmarcan las acciones y
proyectos que permitan hacer realidad la visión subyacen supuestos tales como:

   "Educación integral y pertinente para la libertad y el trabajo"... "estrategias de pedagogía social que
   vinculan el sistema educativo, los medios de comunicación, las empresas y las organizaciones gremiales
   y ciudadanas, orientadas a la formación cívica y a la construcción de una ética civil".

3. En el Plan Decenal de Educación para la cultura de Antioquia, el cual busca "promover la construcción
de un nuevo proyecto de sociedad, a partir de la transformación del sistema educativo regional y local,
mediante la resignificación y vivencia de los fines y principios de la educación y el afianzamiento de los
cimientos de una gestión descentralizada efectiva, articulada y equitativa, con fundamento en procesos
evaluativos permanentes que posibiliten el mejoramiento continuo, y el fomento de valores para la paz y la
convivencia pacífica".

Las Estrategias planteadas a nivel de la Secretaría para el desarrollo del plan de Sostenibilidad de las
experiencias y aprendizajes exitosos del proyecto mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación son:

·       Generalización del Modelo de Asesoría Participativa ­ Colaborativa: Escenario de Encuentro de
        Actores Educativos y Culturales a los municipios que no participaron del Proyecto, lo que implica
        socializar, validar, adaptar o adoptar las lecciones aprendidas en el desarrollo del mismo.

·       Flexibilización y modernización de las estructuras de la Secretaría de Educación para la Cultura,
        posibilitando el trabajo en equipo por procesos y proyectos, de manera que se generen prácticas
        participativas y aprendizajes colaborativos que enriquezcan el Modelo y fortalezcan las políticas
        educativas departamentales y su realización.

·       Socialización del Modelo de Asesoría con los alcaldes electos, enfatizando en el Modelo de Gestión
        Descentralizada y en los procesos comunicacional, participativo, organizativo, planificador,
        pedagógico, financiero, de seguimiento, evaluación y sistematización y en las finalidades y
        principios que lo rigen.

·       Mantener vigente el Modelo Asesoría enriqueciéndolo a través de su reflexión en mesas de trabajo,
        circuitos de participación y foros educativos, posibilitando que sea asumido en cascada pedagógica
        departamento/municipio, municipio/instituciones y centros educativos, y de éstos hacia las
        comunidades educativas, a través de lecciones de pedagogía social en él contempladas.

·       Incorporar el modelo de Asesoría a procesos de modernización de la gestión educativa de la
        Secretaría que este año emprende con acompañamiento del Ministerio de Educación Nacional y la
        presencia del grupo de Empresarios por la Educación, mediante el uso de estrategias y
        herramientas     tecnológicas a través de la generalización de portales educativos, sistemas de
        planificación e información de planes de mejoramiento educativo sistematizados, foros educativos
        virtuales, chat y contactos electrónicos que fortalezcan sus procesos y trasciendan la
        presencialidad.



                                                     - 49 -

·       Recuperar, resignificar y divulgar las lecciones aprendidas por la Secretaría en la ejecución de los
procesos y procedimientos administrativos y de gestión que le son propios, enriqueciendo el Modelo con
manuales de procesos y procedimientos, socializados a través de la página web, que           fortalezcan e
impriman coherencia, congruencia y consistencia a los subsistemas locales de educación para la Cultura y
al subsistema educativo departamental como partes de la unidad sistémica.

·       Evaluar y documentar permanentemente los nuevos aprendizajes y las experiencias exitosas,
        incorporando las lecciones aprendidas de mejoramiento de las instituciones y centros educativos,
        sistematizando y divulgando aquellas estrategias pedagógicas y de gestión que demuestren sus
        incidencias en mayores niveles de logro educativo y social de los estudiantes.

·       Mantener y mejorar la vinculación de los medios comunitarios y masivos de comunicación al
        desarrollo de propuestas y programas educativos que incidan en mejores ambientes significativos
        para el aprendizaje y su relación con el mundo laboral y la investigación científica y tecnológica.

·       Avanzar en el desarrollo de alianzas estratégicas con el sector académico, productivo y medios de
        comunicación social y comunitaria, fortaleciendo las redes de apoyo en los escenarios
        departamental y local y enriqueciendo el rol asesor coordinador de la Secretaría de Educación para
        la Cultura de Antioquia.

·       Fortalecer los circuitos de participación, como la estrategia de participación ciudadana de largo
        plazo definida en el Plan Decenal de Desarrollo de Antioquia, como la forma de potenciar un
        modelo enriquecido por las experiencias que ya empieza a mostrar dicho proceso.

·       Definir un sistema de cofinanciación con los recursos de las Transferencias Nacionales para
        calidad que sumados a los recursos departamentales y municipales, potencien el modelo de asesoría
        integral, focalizando sus acciones no solo localmente, sino en las áreas          y poblaciones que
        presentan mayores necesidades.

·       Definir planes de fortalecimiento de las áreas básicas de conocimiento en matemáticas, lenguaje,
        ciencias sociales y naturales y convivencia ciudadana, aprovechando los resultados de las pruebas
        saber aplicadas censal y muestralmente y la definición de los estándares entregados por el
        Ministerio de Educación Nacional, logrando mayor compromiso de las universidades para la
        implantación del modelo de formación local con incidencia en el trabajo de aula.

6.      DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO

La experiencia de Antioquia, tanto en la formulación como en el desarrollo del proyecto se vio fortalecida
por el excelente acompañamiento brindado por el Banco Mundial, caracterizado por las siguientes líneas
generales:

a.      Asistencia técnica en el diseño, formulación y desarrollo del proyecto, especialmente en el
acompañamiento con consultorías especializadas en la identificación del modelo de gestión del proyecto, en
aspectos como la gestión de la educación en el nivel departamental y el reconocimiento de las
potencialidades de un modelo participativo y descentralizado, especialmente en el reconocimiento y el
apoyo permanente para desarrollar capacidades, habilidades y destrezas en el montaje del modelo de
asesoría participativa- colaborativa.



                                                   - 50 -

b.       Empoderamiento en la capacidad de concertación, dado que el proyecto es visto en el departamento
como una política de estado por haber trascendido a 3 administraciones diferentes. En cada cambio fue
necesario informar, formar y hacer comprender el Proyecto a los nuevos actores, de tal manera que los
objetivos y el modelo de gestión del Proyecto no cambiaran en su esencia.            Ahí reconocemos un
acompañamiento decidido del Banco que contribuyó a que aunque el Proyecto se ajustara no perdiera el
norte y ese aprendizaje lo pudimos replicar en municipios e instituciones educativas.

c.       Oportuno cumplimiento en los procesos establecidos con el convenio de crédito: acompañamiento
en desembolsos, No Objeciones y recomendaciones en general y seguimiento continúo a la ejecución,
dificultades y logros del Proyecto.

d.       Estuvo presente interactuando con los actores departamentales y un gran acompañante en la
construcción y sostenibilidad de Alianzas creadoras.




                                                  - 51 -

- 52 -

