Report No. PIC5048
Project Name                    Colombia-Antioquia Education Project
Region                          Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                          Education
Project ID                      COPA6891
Implementing Agencies           Department of Antioquia
Secretaria de Educacion Departamental (SEDUCA)
Environment Category            C
Contacts                        Mrs. Marta Lucia Villegas
Secretary of Education, Secretaria de Educacion
Date Prepared                   April 1997
Board Approval Date             July 1997
Peer Reviewers                  Juan Prawda, Ward Heneveld
1.      Project development objectives. The Project development
objectives are to (i) improve the capacity of schools/communities,
municipalities and the department to effectively provide their
respective education services; and (ii) contribute to the
Department's goal of improving student learning and attitudes in
rural, urban, poor and at-risk-of-violence communities.
2.      Project description: The Project will achieve the above
mentioned objectives by: (i) providing grants to schools and
communities to develop and implement their own school improvement
projects; (ii) co-financing Municipal plans to improve their
education management capacity and to plan and implement strategies
to improve education access and municipal level education
resources; (iii) financing the development and implementation of a
plan to strengthen, through training and technical assistance, the
non-managerial functions of SEDUCA, including consulting,
communication and ex-post evaluation; (iv) consolidating and
integrating the various systems for evaluation of the education
system existing in the Department; (v) providing a communication
network between the Department, Municipalities and Jefes de Nucleo
(School Supervisors) under the most appropriate technology for each
municipality (electronic mail, faxes, telephone, etc.); and (vi)
financing a Department-wide communications strategy to support the
proposed educational and behavior changes.
3.      Project Implementation: The project will be executed through
a learning cycle: experimentation, demonstration and
generalization. The SEDUCA will be responsible for documenting the
lessons learned through implementation and providing appropriate
adjustments and policy guidance. The project expects to intervene
in 80 municipalities gradually during its implementation life,
which will serve as models for a national strategy to strengthen
municipal education management and investments. The SEDUCA would be
responsible for overall project coordination as well as the
promotion, appraisal, co-financing and ex-post evaluation of



municipal investment subprojects; daily management of project
implementation will be delegated to the municipal and
school/community levels through the implementation of their own
subprojects, and;
the municipal equivalent of SEDUCA, through an agreement with
SEDUCA, will directly manage and monitor municipal investments and
would be responsible for the promotion, appraisal, co-financing and
ex-post evaluation of school/community strengthening subprojects.
4.      Project Cost and Financing: Project cost and the financing
plan are to be determined. Current estimates are for a total
project cost of US$80 million, US$40 million financed by the
Department and the other US$40 million through an IBRD Loan. Over
80% of project funds target investments demanded directly by
schools and municipalities.
5.      Environmental Aspects: Because of the small size and
characteristics of the school, community and municipal subprojects,
project implementation is not expected to have negative
environmental effects.
Contact Point:           Mr. Joel Reyes, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 2 -



