Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4243-CO
Loan Agreement
(Antioquia Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEPARTAMENTO DE ANTIOQUIA
Dated December 15, 1997 
LOAN NUMBER 4243-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEPARTAMENTO DE ANTIOQUIA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) The Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
the Borrower, being a Departamento (Department), that is to say a 
political subdivision of the Guarantor and one of the types of Territorial Entities 
referred to in Article 286 of the Guarantor’s Constitution, represents hereby to the 
Bank that it has met all standards and taken all actions required from borrowers under 
the Guarantor’s and the Borrower’s law, particularly those under the Guarantor’s Law 
No. 358 of January 30, 1997;
(C)
the Borrower expects the Bank to rely on the aforesaid representation to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower;
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications of Section 6.03 thereof as set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
Approved Investment Subproject" means an Investment Subproject (as 
defined below) which has been approved by SEDUCA (as defined below) for purposes of 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria, limits and other provisions of 
the Project Operational Manual and the Municipal Operational Manual (both as defined 
below);
(b)
Approved MIP" means a MIP (as defined below) which has been approved by 
SEDUCA (as defined below) in accordance with the criteria, limits and other provisions 
of the Project Operational Manual and of the Municipal Operational Manual (both as 
defined below);
(c)
"Approved SIP" means a SIP (as defined below), whose financing under one 
or more Transfers (as defined below), has been approved by the Education Board of the 
Corresponding Municipality (as defined below) in accordance with the criteria, limits 
and other provisions of the Project Operational Manual and of the School Operational 
Manual (as both terms are defined below), and which the Borrower intends to finance 
with the corresponding Transfer Portion under the corresponding School Agreement (as 
both terms are defined below); 
(d)
"Approved School Subproject" means a School Subproject (as defined below) 
which has been approved by the School Community Board (as defined below) of the 
Selected School (as defined below) in question for purposes of Part A of the Project 
in accordance with the criteria, limits and other provisions of the Project 
Operational Manual and the School Operational Manual (as both terms are defined 
below);
(e)
"Corresponding Municipality" and "Corresponding School" mean, 
respectively, the Selected Municipality (as defined below) where the Selected School 
in question is located, and any Selected School (as defined below) located in the 
Selected Municipality in question;
Page  3
(f)
"Education Board" means JUME, Junta Municipal de Educación, the Education 
Municipal Board of a given Municipality;
(g)
"FMM"  means a financial, management, reporting and auditing manual to be 
issued by SEDUCA pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement, 
setting forth the policies, rules, procedures and requirements applicable at each 
level of activities under the Project, i.e. activities at the level of SEDUCA, a 
Selected Municipality and a Selected School (as these terms are defined below), and 
that will also be cross-referenced to and in the other Manuals (as this term is 
defined below);
(h)
"Fondo" means a Fondo de Servicios Docentes, as provided for in the Law 
No. 115 (as defined below);
(i)
"Investment" means one or more contributions in cash made or to be made, 
as the context would require, by the Borrower to a Selected Municipality (as defined 
below) to contribute to 50% of the financing of one or more Investment Subprojects;
(j)
"Investment Subproject" means any Subproject (as defined below) under an 
Approved MIP to be carried out, once approved by SEDUCA (as defined below), with the 
assistance of a Selected Municipality (as defined below) under Part B of the Project 
and for purposes of either improving access to or management of Pre-school and Basic 
Education (as defined below), both in such Selected Municipality;
(k)
"Law 60" means the provisions of the Guarantor’s Law No. 60 of 1993 and 
those of its regulatory Decrees No. 2886 of 1994, and 179 and 1060 of 1995;
(l)
"Law 115" means the provisions of the Guarantor’s Law No. 115 of February 
8, 1994, and those of its regulatory Decrees No. 1857 and 1860 of 1994, 1140 and 2253 
of 1995 and 709 of 1996;
(m)
"Manual" means any of the FMM, Municipal Operational Manual, Project 
Operational Manual, Procurement Manual and School Operational Manual (as the latter 
four are defined below) and the term "Manuals" means collectively all five, unless the 
context requires, respectively, referring specifically to one of them or to a specific 
group of two, three or four of them;
(n)
"MIP" means a plan for the investments to be made by a Selected 
Municipality (as defined below) for purposes of the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project;
(o)
"Municipality" means any Municipio (Municipality), a political 
subdivision of the Guarantor and of the Borrower, one of the types of Territorial 
Entities referred to in Article 268 of the Guarantor’s Constitution, that is located 
within the Borrower’s jurisdiction;
(p)
"Municipal Operational Manual" means a manual: (i) to be issued by SEDUCA 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement; (ii) that will set 
forth policies, rules and procedures for the processing and making of Investments and 
the processing and execution of Approved Investments Subprojects to be financed under 
such Investments; and (iii) that will be cross-referenced to and in the other Manuals;
(q)
"Pesos" means pesos in the currency of the Guarantor;
(r)
"Pre-school and Basic Education" means the education services for 
pre-school, primary and lower secondary education provided by the public schools in 
the Borrower’s territories;
(s)
"Project Account" means each of the Fondo accounts to be opened by a 
Selected School pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Loan Agreement;
(t)
"Procurement Manual" means a manual to be issued by SEDUCA pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement setting forth the policies, rules, 
procedures and requirements applicable to all procurement of goods, works and 
consultant and other services required for the Project, irrespective of whether such 
items are to be financed with Loan proceeds;
(u)
"Project Operational Manual" means a manual to be issued by SEDUCA 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement, that will set forth 
the policies, rules and procedures which will be followed by Selected Municipalities, 
or Selected Schools, as the case may be, for the processing of Investments and 
Page  4
Transfers (as defined below), respectively, and for the financing and execution of the 
applicable Approved Investment Subprojects and Approved School Subprojects, and that 
will be referenced to and in the other Manuals;
(v)
"School" means a public school providing Pre-school and Basic Education 
within a Selected Municipality, which is eligible to receive financing under the 
Project in accordance with the selection criteria, limits and other provisions of the 
FMM, Project Operational Manual and the School Grants Manual;
(w)
"School Community Board" means Consejo Directivo del Colegio (School 
Governing Council), the maximum school authority of a given Selected School, which has 
a strong participation in it of relevant members of the specific school education 
community for the approval of School Subprojects to be carried out in such school;
(x)
"School Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between a Selected Municipality and a Corresponding School pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.01 (e) (i) of this Loan Agreement;
(y)
"School Operational Manual" means a manual supporting the Project 
Operational Manual, to be issued by SEDUCA pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 
of this Loan Agreement, that will set forth the policies, rules and procedures for the 
processing and making of Transfers (as defined below) and the processing and execution 
of Approved School Subprojects to be financed thereunder, and that will be referenced 
to and in the FMM, the Municipal Operational Manual and the Project Operational 
Manual;
(z)
"School Subproject" means any Subproject under an Approved SIP (as both 
terms are defined below) to be carried out with the assistance of a Selected 
Municipality and a Corresponding Selected School (both terms as defined below) under 
Part A of the Project, once approved by the School Community Board of the 
Corresponding Municipality as a viable instrument for strengthening: (i) the school’s 
environment, pedagogical adaptation, availability of instructional materials and 
equipment or the acquisition of education technology, or any combination thereof; or 
(ii) building of participatory management for the School in question;
(aa)
"SEDUCA" means Secretaría de Educación y Cultura, the Borrower’s 
Education and Culture Secretariat;
(bb)
"SEDUCA Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between SEDUCA and a Selected Municipality pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(d) of this Loan Agreement;
(cc)
"Selected Municipality" means a Municipality, as so defined, which has 
been selected to participate in the Project by SEDUCA, in accordance with the 
provisions of the FMM, the Project Operational Manual, the Municipal Investment Manual 
and the School Operational Manual, as applicable;
(dd)
"Selected School" means a School, as so defined, which has been selected 
to participate in Part A of the Project by the Secretariat of Education of the 
Corresponding Municipality, in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Operational Manual and the School Operational Manual, as applicable;
(ee)
"SIP" means an improvement plan for a Selected School, comprising one or 
more School Subprojects, as so defined, that has been prepared, by the School 
Community Board for the Selected School in question, in accordance with the provisions 
of the School Operational Manual and the applicable provisions of the Project 
Operational Manual and that is intended to be or is being financed (as the context may 
require), partially out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ff)
"Special Account means the Borrower’s special account referred to in 
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(gg)
"Subproject" means a given set of activities within a SIP or a MIP, as 
the case may be, which: (i) the Borrower will carry out under Parts A and C of the 
Project, as applicable, assisted by a Selected School and a Selected Municipality, 
respectively, inter alia, through the procurement of goods, works or consultant or 
other services, or any combination thereof; and (ii) are intended to be financed, 
partially with the proceeds of the Loan; 
(hh)
"Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such table may be amended from time to time;
Page  5
(ii)
"Transfer" means a non-reimbursable transfer: (i) made, or to be made (as 
the context would require) jointly by: (A) the Borrower, acting through a Selected 
Municipality; and (B) such Municipality, to a Selected School; (ii) intended for 
purposes of providing complete financing for an Approved School Subproject of a given 
Corresponding Selected School under the applicable School Agreement; and (iii) to be 
funded: (A) by the Borrower with the Transfer Portion (as defined below); and (B) by 
such Municipality, out of its own resources (other than Loan proceeds), with an amount 
calculated to maintain for such funding the proportion determined for the type of 
expenditures and the Approved School Subproject or Subprojects in question and for 
such Municipality, all pursuant to the applicable provisions of the FMM and the School 
Operational Manual; and
(jj)
"Transfer Portion" means the portion of a Transfer to be: (i) funded by 
the Borrower in the proportion to be determined by the applicable provisions of the 
FMM and the School Operational Manual; and (ii) entirely financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 4 of the Table.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
Page  6
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period 
of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The head of SEDUCA or the person or persons appointed by her or 
him are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEDUCA and with the assistance of Selected Municipalities, in 
respect of Parts A and B of the Project, and also of Selected Schools in respect of 
Part A of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, educational, environmental and financial practices, and 
shall provide, and in the case of Parts A and B of the Project cause to be provided by 
Selected Municipalities, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the letter from the head of SEDUCA dated 
October 8, 1997, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about September 15 in each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) (i) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; the first such 
report shall be furnished to the Bank in 1998 and the last one not 
later than two months before the Closing Date; and
(iii)
review with the Bank, by October 30 in each year or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the corresponding report referred 
to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Page  7
Bank views on the matter.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain each of the Manuals to be issued 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Loan Agreement until the 
completion of the Project and ensure that the provisions of the Manuals are applied by 
each Selected School and Selected Municipality at all times during Project execution; 
provided, however, that, recognizing the importance of testing Manual provisions on 
the basis of the experience gained by the Borrower and the Bank from Project 
execution, said provisions shall be changed from time to time with previous approval 
of the Bank, or at any time the Bank, based on the said experience, reasonably 
requests a change; and (ii) make available: (A) the proceeds of the Loan allocated in 
the Table for purposes of Part A of the Project to each Selected School through the 
Corresponding Municipality; and (B) the proceeds of the Loan allocated in the Table 
for purposes of Part B of the Project to each Municipality, all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Operational Manual and, as applicable, the School 
Operational Manual and the Municipal Investment Manual.
(d)
For purposes of paragraph (c) (ii) above, the Borrower shall enter, in 
accordance with the provisions of the applicable Manual or Manuals, with each Selected 
Municipality into contractual arrangements in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank and following the model for such type of arrangements approved by the Bank (the 
SEDUCA Agreement) for purposes of Section 6.01 (b) of this Loan Agreement. It is 
hereby agreed that any proposed departure from the aforesaid model, with respect to 
one or more such SEDUCA Agreements, shall be submitted for Bank’s approval before the 
execution of the SEDUCA Agreement(s) in question.
(e)
Through each such SEDUCA Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i)
cause the Selected Municipality in question to enter, for purposes 
of paragraph (a) above, and in accordance with the provisions of 
the applicable Manual or Manuals, with one or more Corresponding 
Selected Schools into contractual arrangements in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank and following the model for 
such type of arrangements approved by the Bank (School Agreement) 
for purposes of Section 6.01 (b) of this Loan Agreement, which 
arrangements shall govern the participation of the Municipality in 
question in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project;
(ii)
cause the Municipality and Corresponding School in question not to 
modify such models and to enable the Borrower to obtain the 
approval of the Bank in respect to any modification to said model 
before the execution of the School Grant Agreement in question;
(iii)
cause the Municipality in question:
(A)
to make the necessary deposits of its own resources into the 
Project Account as required to complete the funding of each 
Transfer to be made under the School Agreement in question 
by supplementing, in a timely fashion, the Transfer Portion 
and thus enabling the carrying out of the corresponding 
Approved School Subproject for the benefit and with the 
assistance of the Corresponding School;
(B)
to enable the deposit into the corresponding Project Account 
of the applicable Transfer Portion, as provided for in 
Section 3.03 of this Loan Agreement, by depositing into such 
Account the Municipality contribution to the applicable 
Transfer, as and when requested by the Selected School in 
question pursuant to the terms of the applicable School 
Agreement to defray eligible expenditures to be incurred by 
said School for the applicable Approved SIP;
(C)
to maintain, in respect of the funds deposited in said 
Project Account to be used in the financing of expenditures 
of the said School under the said Approved SIP and to the 
extent required by the Borrower, the proportion between 
Transfer and Transfer Portion applicable under the School 
Operational Manual; and 
(D)
to furnish promptly to the Borrower the evidence related to 
the expenditures financed partially out of the proceeds of 
the Loan;
Page  8
(iv)
cause the Municipality in question, and the Corresponding School 
or Schools under the applicable School Agreement, to ensure that 
the monies available under the applicable Project Account shall be 
made available to such School in a timely fashion and that all 
goods, works and consultant services required for the carrying out 
of an Approved School Subproject are procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement and of the 
Procurement Manual.
(f)
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that no 
application for withdrawal from the Loan Account or from the Special Account is 
submitted in connection with expenditures incurred by a Selected Municipality or 
School, unless such Municipality or School shall have entered into the applicable 
SEDUCA Agreement or School Agreement, or both, as the case may be, and is in 
compliance with the provisions thereof.
(g)
The Borrower shall not assign, permit the assignment, amend, waive or 
fail to enforce any SEDUCA Agreement or any provision thereof and shall cause each 
Selected Municipality, or through the Corresponding Municipality, each Selected School 
to comply with their respective obligations under each SEDUCA Agreement and 
Municipality Agreement and not to assign, amend, waive or fail to enforce any such 
Agreement or provision thereof without the prior approval of the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a)  The Borrower shall: (i) before any Transfer is made to 
finance one or more Approved School Subprojects, cause the Selected School in question 
to open and maintain an account in Pesos (Project Account), as provided for in the 
School Agreement for purposes of the execution of Part A of the Project, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower and the Corresponding Selected 
Municipality; and (ii) deposit into such Project Account, subject to the provisions of 
paragraph (b) (ii) below, the equivalent in  Pesos of the Transfer Portion determined 
under the applicable provisions of the School Operational Manual and the School 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Corresponding Selected School in 
question to maintain the Project Account until the date on which the applicable 
Approved Subproject or Subprojects have been completed by said School; (ii) not 
deposit into the Project Account any amount to be financed under Category 4 of the 
Table unless the Corresponding Selected Municipality shall have deposited in the 
Project Account an amount in Pesos equivalent to the difference between the Transfer 
and the Transfer Portion; and (iii) cause such School to provide promptly to such 
Municipality evidence of the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Transfer.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause each Selected Municipality: (a) to assist 
in the carrying out of the corresponding Approved MIP, including the Investment 
Subprojects thereunder; and (b) not to modify any of them unless so agreed between the 
Bank and the Borrower and between the Borrower and the Selected Municipality in 
question.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future provision of Pre-school and Basic 
Education, especially in connection with the Schools and the facilities included in 
the Project; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
agencies of the Borrower, including Selected Municipalities and Selected Schools, 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  9
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall secure, not later than sixty days after the 
Effective Date, the services of the auditors referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of such 
Section, at least for purposes of the audit of records and accounts corresponding to 
Project execution activities during 1998.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the parties to a SEDUCA Agreement or to a School Agreement, other 
than the Borrower, shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations 
under the SEDUCA Agreement in question.
(b)
Law 60 or Law 115 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or a 
Selected Municipality or Selected School to perform any of its obligations under a 
SEDUCA Agreement or School Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the parties to a SEDUCA Agreement or a School Agreement will be able to 
perform their respective obligations under such Agreements.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the closing of a Selected School or for the suspension of its 
operations or of the educational operations of a Selected Municipality, and the action 
in question, in the opinion of the Bank, shall have affected materially and adversely 
Page  10
the carrying out of the Approved SIP of the School in question or the Approved MIP of 
the Municipality in question.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the FMM, Project Operational Manual, the Municipal Operational Manual, 
the Procurement Manual and the School Grant Manual have been issued by SEDUCA in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
the models for SEDUCA Agreements and School Agreements provided for in 
paragraphs (d) and (e) (i) of Section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement have been furnished 
to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that each of the SEDUCA Agreements which will be entered into pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement, once duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, will be legally binding upon the Borrower and 
the Selected Municipality in question in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that each of the School Grant Agreements, once duly authorized or 
ratified by the Selected Municipality and the Corresponding School or Schools, will be 
legally binding upon such Municipality and the Corresponding Selected School in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of March 17, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Governor 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Gobernación de Antioquia
Calle 42 B No. 52-106
Piso 12, Edificio La Alpujarra
Medellín, Colombia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Page  11
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
DEPARTAMENTO DE ANTIOQUIA
By  /s/ Alvaro Uribe Vélez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Felipe Saez 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, other
3,200,000
50%
than works
financed under
Transfers
(2)
Goods, other
4,500,000
50%
than goods
financed under
Transfers
(3)
Training and  
9,800,000
50%
consultant
services other than
consultant services
and Training financed
under Transfers 
(4)
Works, goods,      20,000,000
100% of amounts
consultant services
disbursed by the
and Training 
Borrower
financed under 
Transfer Portions
(5)
Unallocated
2,500,000
TOTAL
     40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Training" means expenditures in 
respect of organizing, teaching in and/or attending to training sessions, workshops 
and seminars under the Project, including per diem and travel expenses for trainers 
and participants, rentals for the corresponding facilities and instruction materials, 
and purchases of the latter when directly related to the aforesaid training sessions, 
workshops and seminars.
Page  12
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$600,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) set forth in the Table on 
account of payments made for expenditures under Part C of the Project before that date 
but after June 22, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts not subject to prior review according to the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project objectives are: (i) to improve the capacity of public schools, 
education communities, and Municipalities’ and Borrower’s educational agencies to 
provide effectively their respective education services; (ii) to contribute to the 
Borrower’s goal of improving the quality of said education services, including student 
learning and access thereto, and school retention, primarily in rural, urban poor and 
at-risk-of-violence areas of the Borrower’s territory; and (iii) to provide lessons 
and experience to help formulate a national strategy in support of education 
management and investments by Territorial Entities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
School and community strengthening Subprojects
Preparation of SIPs and School Subprojects and execution of Approved SIPs and 
Approved School Subprojects for improvements to:
1.
School environment, such as provision of works or other services for minor 
infrastructure repairs and educational technology, including acquisition and 
utilization of hardware and software and training services for such utilization and 
acquisition and utilization of books and other instructional materials.
2.
Pedagogical adaptation and innovation, such as improvement of School management 
and community participation through enhancement of participatory management, including  
support of capacity building in poor and weaker schools and communities, through  
training and provision of technical assistance, both in pedagogical planning and in 
sundry issues of school management, to the schools and communities in question.
Part B:
Municipal education strengthening and investment development
Preparation of MIPs and Investment Subprojects and execution of Approved MIPs 
and Approved Investment Subprojects for:
1.
Improving access to Basic Education through: (a) construction of new, or 
expansion or enhancement of existing Schools; (b) contracting, with appropriate 
non-profit private educational institutions operating in the Borrower’s territories, 
the provision of Pre-school and Basic Education to groups of residents of the 
corresponding Municipality whose respective expenditures are eligible to be defrayed 
by such Municipality under the applicable provisions of the Manuals; (c) participation 
in various types of strategies currently applied in the Guarantor’s territories to 
expand rural education; and (d) provision of certain Pre-School and Basic Education 
most efficiently provided at Municipality level, such as libraries, laboratories, 
teacher resource centers and children museums.
2.
Improving management of Basic Education through: (a) upgrading Selected 
Municipalities skills in preparation, implementation and management of educational 
investments and overall administration of their Pre-School and Basic Education system; 
and (b) acquisition of equipment and other infrastructure improvements for Education 
Secretariats and Boards, and other education agencies of Selected Municipalities.
Part C:
 Strengthening of SEDUCA’s service providing capacity
1.
Building up SEDUCA’s capacity to coordinate activities under the Project and to 
enable SEDUCA to perform a similar role in the future in respect of basic cycle 
Page  13
education in the Borrower’s territory.
2.
Provision of educational, technical and advisory services to Municipalities and 
strengthening of SEDUCA’s capacity therefor, including the consolidation of an 
efficient education communication and information system across the Borrower’s 
territory.
3.
Execution of Project promotional activities and education programs involving the 
education community.
4.
Execution of a participatory plan and social market campaign aimed at promoting 
positive values regarding education and socio-economic success, and of monitoring, 
evaluation and dissemination activities of educational output at the Borrower’s level 
and the overall Project output.
Without limitation or restriction upon the aforesaid, this Part of the Project 
will include: (a) provision of technical assistance and training to SEDUCA’S staff, 
including acquisition of related goods, if warranted; (b) execution of studies and 
research; and (c) systematization of the provision of educational services by the 
Borrower.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
        (expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2004
through June 15, 2012
2,220,000
On December 15, 2012
       2,260,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods or works shall be 
Page  14
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely that 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Computer and communications equipment estimated to cost $250,000 or more per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,100,000 equivalent and, subject to 
Part 2 below, goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Subject to Parts C.3 and C.4 below, goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent (including computer and communications equipment) per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, and civil works estimated to 
cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  Before 
issuing any invitation to bid under this procedure, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank for approval, appropriate model bidding documents.  Once approved, 
the Borrower shall use, or cause the Municipalities and Schools to use said model, as 
approved and if so required, for bidding under the Project.  Any change to or 
departure from the model so approved, shall require Bank prior approval.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Approved School Subprojects
Although the limits stipulated in paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 above shall determine 
the procurement procedures applicable to each Approved School Subproject, it is 
further agreed that the expenditures for goods and works procured under any such 
Subproject shall not be taken into account for the calculation of the aggregate limits 
stipulated in said paragraphs.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  15
With respect to each contract to be procured under Parts B or C.1 above or the 
first contract to be procured during each calendar year under Part C.2 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that, irrespectively of the amount of any of such first 
contracts, the Bank shall have the right to request prior review under said paragraphs 
2 and 3 to one or more additional contracts procured under Part C.2 above if it shall 
have found anything objectionable about the bidding or award procedures applied.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Procurement Provisions Governing National Competitive Bidding
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly, after the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, 
namely that the short list of consultants for services under Parts B, (other than Part 
Page  16
B.1 (b), and C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part B.1 (b) of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $5,700,000 equivalent (excluding consultant services to be provided under 
Approved School Subproject) may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for technical assistance and training, and other services of standard 
or routine nature as determined by the Procurement Manual, all under Parts B, other 
than Part B. 1 (b), and C of the Project and which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,700,000 
equivalent (excluding consultant services to be provided under Approved School 
Subprojects) may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
selected under Part B of this Section and to all other contracts with consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, other than those selected 
under Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  17
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
Page  18
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
