Page  1
July 9, 1997
Dr. Cecilia Lopez Montaño
Director
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Dr. Alvaro Uribe Velez
Governor of Antioquia
Gobernación de Antioquia
Calle 42B No. 52-106
Medellín, Antioquia
Colombia
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Antioquia Education Project
Grant Number TF -  027065
Dear Drs. Lopez Montaño and Uribe Velez:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to the 
request of the Republic of Colombia (the Recipient) to carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 
(b) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement valued in an amount not exceeding one hundred twenty seven 
thousand six hundred dollars in the currency of the United States of America ($178,200) (the Grant).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for assistance as per its letter of 
April 2, 1997 and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the aforesaid Annex. The 
Recipient and the Department of Antioquia hereby confirm its request that the Bank carry out the 
activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is 
authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Department of Antioquia, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter 
Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT/INTERNATIONAL
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
By /s/ Cecilia López Montaño
Director, Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Date: July 25, 1997
AGREED:
DEPARTMENT OF ANTIOQUIA
By /s/ Alvaro Uribe Vélez
Governor 
Date: August 11, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities, more specifically described in the Grant proposal  submitted 
by the Bank to the Japanese authorities on December 17, 1996 (the Activities), for which  the Grant is 
given, follow in (b) below:
(a)
Definitions
For purposes of this Annex, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
(i)
“Project” means a Project designed to support the Department in its endeavors 
to improve the provision of basic education services to its population; and
Page  3
(ii)
“Department” means the Department of Antioquia, a Territorial Entity in terms 
of the Recipient’s Constitution; and
(iii)
“Municipality” means each Municipality within the boundaries of Department, 
another type of Territorial Entity in terms of the Recipient’s Constitution, and 
the term “Municipalities” means more than one Municipality, as required by the 
context. 
(b)
Activities
(i)
Assisting in establishing a monitoring and evaluation system for all activities 
under the Project and the required dissemination strategy;
(ii)
preparation of technical specifications and, in general, drafting of model 
bidding and other types of procurement documents consistent with Bank 
Guidelines for Procurement and for Selection and Employment of Consultants, 
to be used by the Department in the carrying out of the Project;
(iii)
assisting in establishing a financial information and audit control system within 
the Department and the Municipalities which will serve as an early warning for 
Project implementation problems and allow the Department, or the 
Municipalities, or both, to take, if warranted, early corrective action to solve 
such problems, if any;
(iv)
developing efficient managerial arrangements within the Department’s and 
Municipalities’ Education Secretariats for the implementation of the Project,  
including drafting of the required Manuals for Project implementation;
(v)
identifying strategies for supporting the strengthening of the Department, and 
the Municipalities providing  basic education services, on how to discharge 
their new respective governmental responsibilities as provider of such services 
and as agents of change in a new decentralized environment; and
(vi)
assist the Department in studying and disseminating lessons, including 
travel-tours for these purposes, on school-based management, community 
participation and pedagogical innovations through:
(A)
studies of education and management processes and systems in 
Colombia and other countries; and
(B)
dissemination programs of applicable aspects of said 
experiences.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants and other service providers (the Consultants) 
required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient and the Department. The 
Recipient and the Municipality shall, through the Recipient’s National Planning Department, and 
the Department’s Secretariat of Education, respectively, cooperate with the Bank to the extent 
Page  4
necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate 
the results of the Activities. The Recipient and the Department shall indemnify the Bank against 
any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection 
with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its 
staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 30, 1998.  After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants and other service providers required to assist 
in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be 
done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient and the Department shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient and the Department, respectively, on the Consultants or any of 
the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection 
with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient and the Department, terminate the right of the Recipient to  
receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient or the Department have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient or for the Department and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient or the Department. Neither the Recipient nor the 
Department shall have any right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank 
pursuant to this Agreement.
