Page  1
June 8, 2001
Dr Juan Manuel Santos
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Santa Fe de Bogotá
República de Colombia 
Dr Guillermo Gaviria Correa
Gobernador del Departamento de Antioquia
Calle 42 B No. 52-106
Piso 12, Edificio La Alpujarra
Medellín
Republica de Colombia
Re: Loan 4243-CO (Antioquia Education Project)
Amendments to Loan Agreement
Dear Sirs: 
1.
This is in reference to our discussions in respect of changes required by the 
Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) and Departamento de Antioquia (the Borrower) for the above Project, dated 
December 15, 1997 (the Loan Agreement), guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia (the 
Guarantor) under a Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith entered into between the 
Guarantor and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement). Such changes will be made taking 
into account the experience gained by virtue of certain developments which have taken 
place in the carrying out of the Project. 
Thus, we are pleased to propose the following amendments to the Loan Agreement, 
namely,  that the Table in paragraph 1 and paragraph 3, both of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement, are hereby replaced by the table and paragraph 3 set forth in the Annex to 
this letter. (Paragraphs 2 and 4 of said Schedule 1, although remaining unchanged, 
have been also included in the said Annex just to facilitate its use)
2.
As it has become clear in the discussions referred to in 1 above, in order to 
consolidate past achievements under the Project and to bring to fruition before the 
Closing Date what remains to be done under the Project, it shall be necessary for the 
Borrower to prepare an operational plan for the future execution of the Project. Such 
plan shall reflect the range of selectivity for the different activities and 
interventions yet to be carried out under the Project, as well as the selection 
criteria to be used, and the means to ensure that the selected activities and 
interventions are simple and can be carried out with agility. The amendments referred 
to in 1 above shall become effective on the date the Bank notifies the Borrower that 
the said operational plan is satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
It should also be noted that the Bank and the Borrower have agreed that the 
execution of the operational plan referred to in 2 above shall be helped by changes to 
be introduced in the Manuals (as the term is defined in Section 1.02 (m) of the Loan 
Agreement), as requested by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan 
Agreement, which changes the Borrower has accepted to make by means of Dra. Maria 
Eugenia Escobar’s letter to the Bank, on that matter, dated April 18, 2001. 
If you agree with the aforesaid, please signify said agreement by dating and 
signing the attached duplicate of this letter on of behalf of the Borrower, as its 
authorized representative under Section 7.01 of this Agreement, by having H.E. the 
Guarantor’s Minister of  Finance and Public Credit signifying his agreement on behalf 
of the Guarantor, as its authorized representative under Section 3.01 of the Guarantee 
Agreement, by also dating and signing the aforesaid duplicate, and by returning to us 
said duplicate duly countersigned.
Sincerely
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Federico Renjifo Vélez
Deputy Minister, Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit
Date: June 27, 2001
DEPARTAMENTO DE ANTIOQUIA
By /s/ Guillermo Gaviria Correa
Governor of Antioquia
Date: June 20, 2001
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part B
  1,500,000
70% 
of the Project, other
than works
financed under
Transfers
(2)
Goods under Part
  1,000,000
70%
B of the Project,
other than goods
financed under
Transfers
(2)
(a) Goods under Part C
  1,000,000
100% of 
of the Project, other 
local expenditures
than goods financed
(ex-factory cost); and 
under Transfers
90%  of  local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Training and consultant
  9,300,000
70%
services under Part B
of the Project, other than
consultant services
and Training financed
under Transfers 
(3)
(a) Training and con-
  4,700,000
100%
sultants services under 
Part C of the Project, 
other than consultant 
Page  3
services and Training 
financed under Transfers
(4)
Works, goods,
 20,000,000
100% of amounts 
consultant services
disbursed by the
and Training 
Borrower
financed under 
Transfer Portions
(5)
Unallocated
  2,500,000
TOTAL
 40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Training" means expenditures in 
respect of organizing, teaching in, and/or attending training sessions, workshops and 
seminars under the Project, including per diem and travel expenses for trainers and 
participants, rentals for the corresponding facilities and instruction materials, and 
purchases of the latter when directly related to the aforesaid training sessions, 
workshops and seminars.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$600,000, may be made in respect of Categories 2 (a) and  3 (a) set forth in the Table 
on account of payments made for expenditures under Part C of the Project before that 
date but after June 22, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts not subject to prior review according to the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
