Document of                 FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI, UISE ONLY
Report No. p-2 51 3-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TIIE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDlT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MAIIARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 1]8, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1         =  Paise 100
US$1         =  Rs 8.60
Rs 1         =  US$0.1163
Rs I million =  US$116,279.07
(Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been offi-
cially valued relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/
Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. As of
April 12, 1979 the exchange rate was Rs 8.21 to US$1.O).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI     -    Government of India
GOM     -    Government of Maharashtra
MWSSB   -    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board
MIDC    -    Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
BMC     -    Bombay Municipal Corporation
BMR     -    Bombay Metropolitan Region
BMRDA   -    Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
ENE     -    Environmental Engineering Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:         The Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(MWSSB) and participating local authorities.
Amount:                US$48 million.
Terms:                  Standard.
On-Lending Terms:      India to Maharashtra:  As part of Central assistance
for State development projects on terms and condi-
tions applicable at the time. Maharashtra to MWSSB:
25 years, including four years of grace, at 6-3/4%
interest per annum. The foreign exchange risk will
be borne by the Government of India.
Project
Description:          Construction of water treatment, transmission and
distribution facilities to augment the supply of water
to 6 towns and 22 villages, and to provide new piped
water supplies to 82 villages; these facilities will
enable an additional 200 million liters of water per day
to be supplied to 2.4 million people in the 6 towns and
104 villages; provision of sewage collection, treatment
and disposal in three of the six project towns and the
expansion and completion of the sewerage system in the
remaining three towns; provision of public standpipes;
improved detection of water distribution system losses,
repairs of mains and metering; training and technical
assistance. The project would also help to develop
MWSSB as an institution capable of planning and imple-
menting sectoral development programs in Maharashtra.
Because the project involves a substantial amount of
civil engineering works, there is a risk that temporary
shortages of materials, lateness on the part of manu-
facturers in meeting contractual delivery dates, or
lack of management skills on the part of contractors,
could lead to delays in implementation. However, the
Governments of India and Maharashtra, and MWSSB have
been alerted and are expected to take all precautions
to minimize the impact of these delaying factors.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                              (US$ millions)
Components                    Local    Foreign   Total
Water Supply                    30.2        6.3      36.5
Sewerage                        21.6          -      21.6
Common Services                   2.0        -        2.0
Engineering                       3.9         -       3.9
Consultant Services               1.5       0.6       2.1
Training                         0.1        0.1       0.2
Land Acquisition                  2.1        -        2.1
Sub-total                  61.4        7.0      68.4
Physical Contingencies           8.3        1.0       9.3
Price Contingencies             16.4        1.7      18.1
Duties and Taxes                 4.2         -        4.2
Total Project Cost          90.3        9.7    100.0
Project Cost Net of Duties
and Taxes                       86.1        9.7      95.8
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                      38.3        9.7      48.0
GOM Grant/Loans                 37.8         -       37.8
Local Authorities               10.0         -       10.0
Total                      86.1        9.7     95.8
Estimated
Disbursements:            IDA FY        FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual         0.5    7.2    13.1   15.8  11.4
Cumulative    0.5    7.7    20.8   36.6  48.0
Rate of Return:        About 9%.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2377a-IN, dated April 17, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
MAHARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$48 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a water supply and sewerage project in
six towns and 104 villages in Maharashtra. The proceeds of the credit would
be channeled to the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in accordance with the
Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for the financing of
State development projects. GOM will lend the funds to the Maharashtra Water
Supply and Sewerage Board for 25 years, including four years of grace, at
6-3/4% interest per annum. The exchange risk will be borne by the Government
of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as
a drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total,
but also because of the need to use of scarce foreign exchange to import
food. Growth in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between
1950 and 1975, but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as
high as can be expected.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports and foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the economy for most
of the period. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP
and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less than 2% of GDP now,
has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the early 1970s. Exports
have grown relatively slowly, 5.4% per annum in US dollar terms and 2.8% per
annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76. So far during the 1970s,
exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per annum in US dollar terms and
8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to 1976/77. During the same period
imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar terms but only by 2% per annum in
volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Receit Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during



- 3 -
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. These rates of growth in agricultural inputs
and output are heartening evidence that the good harvests of 1975/76 and
1977/78 were not isolated peaks resulting from good weather alone but
represent an increased agricultural production capacity.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% or more but continuing shortages
in many States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion.
Development Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made
possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.



- 4 -
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant under-
employment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the poorest
sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of some of
the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the Plan
recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most ealier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model,. the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitous irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
highly effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will
raise yields as it takes hold progressively across India in the near future.
Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain production: one
is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties of rice;
another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the traditional
wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends along with the
other favorable developments have caused rice production to rise impressively
in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain production is the



- 5 -
rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditionally rice areas (West
Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure.  Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of the exemption limit of industrial licensing for
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues. Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical products.  This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.



-6-
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period 1982/83,
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export grcwth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current low level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups.  More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless



- 7 -
families and families owing less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA 1/
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 56 loans and 112 development
credits to India totalling US$2,286 million and US$6,359 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$969 million had been
repaid, and US$2,890 million was still undisbursed as of February 28, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of February 28,
1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.3 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.2 million, US$26.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.1 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of February 28, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by rhe Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments have also
received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
1/   Part II of the report is substantially the same as Part II of the
President's Report for the Punjab Irrigation Project (Report No.
P-2466-IN), dated March 19, 1979.



- 8 -
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to pro-
jects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
February 28, 1979, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,362 million, of
which US$682 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$680 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On lMarch 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion,  of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
26.       Although State Governments in India have primary responsibility for
the development of water supply and sewerage facilities, the Central Govern-
ment, through its five-year plans and/or special programs has considerable
influence on sector development planning. Funds are normally allocated by
the Government of India in the form of grants and loans which State Govern-
ments supplement by local borrowing. The States execute their responsibili-
ties through various departments of government and agencies which, in turn,
may delegate part or all of their duties to local authorities. In certain
cases, legislation has been enacted to permit municipal authorities, or other
agencies, to assume the entire responsibility for planning, design, construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage services within
their jurisdictions.
27.       Since the early 1950s, State Governments have endeavored to meet
the increasing sector demands caused by rapidly expanding population and un-
precedented rates of urban growth. However, competing demands for resources,
lack of management and planning skills, shortages of key materials and equip-
ment, as well as foreign exchange constraints, have resulted in only 1 to 2%
of public expenditures being invested in the sector.
28.       Based on 1975 statistics 1/ about 30% of India's total population
of 620 million had access to water supply of reasonable quality and 20% had
acceptable means of disposing of sewage. World Health Organization statistics
for developing countries indicate that progress in the sector kept pace with
population growth in the period 1971 through 1976. However rapid urban growth
in India and the lack of financial resources required to meet large capital
investments, which urban water and sewerage systems require, have contributed
to a decline in the levels of these urban services.
29.       Very large investments (probably more than four times the 1971-75
levels, in 1977 US dollars) would be necessary to meet the target 2/ of supply-
ing potable water to 100% of the population by 1990. The investment for urban
water supply and sewerage in India in the period 1975 through 1979 was some
Rs 1,100 million (US$128 million) per year which was only 1.5% of total Plan
investments; investment in the rural water supply sector in the same period
was Rs 750 million (US$87 million) which was 1% of the total Plan investment.
Although existing organizational and technical resources would permit much
higher levels of investment to hasten the provision of services to a larger
population, the provision of operation and maintenance facilities for urban
water and sewerage systems would present a serious challenge to Central,
State and local government institutions.
1/   World Health Organization, Community Water Supply and Wastewater
Disposal, Mid-Decade Progress Report, Mlay 1976.
2/   Report on Community Water Supplies, United Nations Water Conference,
lar del Plata, Argentina, 14-25 M4arch 1977.



- 10 -
Water Resources in the Bombay Metropolitan Region and the Project Area
30.       Maharashtra is the third largest state in India, having an area of
about 308,000 square kilometers and an estimated (1977) population of some
59.3 million, which is almost 10% of India's total population. Bombay is
the State capital and the largest industrial center. The State's urban pop-
ulation, excluding Bombay's 7.6 million, is 11.3 million located in some 226
urban communities; the rural population is 40.4 million. The Bombay Metro-
politan Region (BMR), a part of the State of Maharashtra and a beneficiary
under the proposed Credit, comprises 4,350 square kilometers. Excluding
Bombay, it has an estimated population (1978) of 2.6 million of which 1.6
million has been designated as urban.
31.       The Vaitarna River in the north, the Ulhas River and their tribu-
taries, as well as the Patalganga and Amba Rivers in the south, are the prin-
cipal sources of water for BMR. The tailraces of the Bhivpuri and Khopoli
hydroelectric power stations supplement the Ulhas and Patalganga River flows
and the Barvi Dam impoundment helps to sustain flows in the Barvi and Ulhas
Rivers. In addition to these principal sources there are many minor streams,
some of which are suitable for impounding to provide year-round water supplies.
32.       The Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (BMC), a part of BMR,
draws its water from the Vaitarna, Tansa, Powai, Vihar and Tulsi Reservoirs
and will soon begin to use part of the water from the Bhatsai Reservoir under
the IDA-assisted Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Projects. BMC also has
facilities to draw 90 million liters per day of water directly from the Ulhas
River.
33.       The Ulhas River and its tributary, the Barvi River, provide most
of the water used in the project area. The water is treated and pumped at
three plants: Shahad and Jambul, operated by the Maharashtra Industrial
Development Corporation (MIDC), and Badlapur, operated by the Maharashtra
Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MWSSB). An additional water intake on the
Ulhas River and a water treatment plant at Temghar will be provided under
the proposed project to supply water to the northeast portion of the project
area, part of which is now supplied by BMC.
Water Supply and Sewerage in the Project Area
34.       All six towns and 22 of the 104 villages included in the proposed
project have piped water, although the supply is inadequate and the distri-
bution of water is inequitable. Some areas receive water for periods of only
2 to 4 hours a day and many areas have insufficient standpipes to meet the
needs of people who cannot afford to have individual water connections. It is
estimated that within the project area the quantity of water available to the
1978 population of 1.3 million is about 105 million liters per day (mld) of
which a net quantity of 65 mld is available for domestic consumption. Based
on the normally accepted standards in India of 120 and 50 liters per capita
per day (lcd) for urban consumers supplied through connections and standpipes,
respectively, and of 70 and 40 lcd for similar categories in rural communities,



- 11 -
the domestic water demand in the project area is 160 mld or about 1.6 times
the present supply level. By 1984, if the project is not implemented, esti-
mated demand will be more than twice the supply level.
35.       At present, the urban population outside of the BMC area have no
access to water-borne sewerage systems, although partially constructed systems
for the towns of Thane, Kalyan and Bhiwandi will be completed under the project.
The Government of Maharasthra (GOM) recently allocated Rs 20 million (US$2.3
million) for rural sanitation in the project area which MWSSB will prepare and
implement in parallel with the IDA-assisted project. This will be the first
rural sanitation project in BMR. Parts of the six towns in the project area
have septic tanks, soakage pits and bucket latrines which provide an inadequate
and often unhygienic means of waste disposal. It is reported that the most
frequently used means of disposing of human waste is to dump it in open sur-
face water drainage channels, water courses and sullage ponds.
Sector Organization
36.       In 1975 GOM established an Environmental Engineering Organization
(ENE) under its Department of Urban Development, with the declared objective
of providing safe drinking water and waste disposal services to achieve and
maintain a cleaner environment. ENE undertook the planning and implementation
of most rural water supply, as well as municipal water supply and sewerage
projects, which were partly financed by municipalities and partly by Government.
Such projects are normally operated and maintained by the local authorities
concerned, although the State Government sometimes performs these tasks at
the request of local authorities.
37.       The Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board was established in
January 1977. GOM considered that such an entity could more effectively
"'provide rapid development and proper regulation of water supply and sewerage
services in the State of Maharasthra." Initially, MWSSB's role was primarily
that of a financing channel, raising funds by borrowing from local financing
institutions and on the open market. Recently, GOM has placed considerable
emphasis on the development of MWSSB to the level of a fully effective agency,
expanding its functions to include project preparation, execution, operation
and maintenance. During 1979, almost the entire staff of ENE (about 9,000
technical and non-technical staff) will be transferred to MWSSB, retaining much
of ENE's former organizational pattern. Although the headquarters of MWSSB
is located in Government offices in Bombay, it will soon occupy new offices,
in addition to subsidiary offices in several regions of the State (termed
circles) and in districts within the circles. The proposed project is located
in the Thane district of the Bombay circle.
Sector Investment
38.       Increased investment in the sector at the national level (paragraph
29), and at the State level is desirable. Investment in the State water
supply and sewerage program amounted to about Rs 75 million (US$8.8 million)
in FY1976/77 and FY1977/78, which was less than 2% of GOM's total budget.



- 12 -
Some Rs 39 million and Rs 1.7 million (US$4.5 million and US$0.2 million)
were allocated to urban and rural areas, respectively, and about Rs 35 mil-
lion (US$4.1 million) to continuing construction of the Bhatsai dam to be
used for supplying water to Bombay and for irrigation.
39.       The Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BMRDA), was
established in 1975 to coordinate the activities of local authorities within
BMR and to promote regional investment planning. BMRDA has completed a com-
prehensive water resources study for BMR and has played a major role in
preparing the proposed project. The proposed project, which forms part of a
sector development plan for BMR, was prepared by the Water Resources Manage-
ment Board of BMRDA.  For planning purposes, BMR is divided into six zones
(see Map). There are 13 towns and 1,300 villages in these six zones. Of these,
water supply to communities in Zones I, III and most of IV are included in
the project. In other zones, projects are under implementation as well, in-
cluding BMC's two IDA-assisted water supply and sewerage projects in Zone VI.
The BMRDA plan also includes water-borne sewerage systems for eight of the
thirteen towns in Zones I through V; six of these systems, which are part of
the project, and sewerage systems for the towns of Panvel (Zone IV) and
Khopoli (Zone V), are to be included in India's Sixth Plan at an estimated
cost of Rs 22 million (US$2.6 million). As yet, there are no firm proposals
to provide sewerage systems for the remaining five towns.
40.       Although the Government of India (GOI) is now placing considerable
emphasis on the need for improved water supplies in rural areas, specific
projects have yet to be developed for most of the rural areas in BMR. BMRDA,
in conjunction with MWSSB, has determined that almost 700 of the 1,300 vil-
lages in BMR urgently require new piped water systems to replace existing
inadequate wells. New piped water supplies for 82 of these villages will be
provided under the project, and a further 115 villages will receive piped
water under a Rs 60 million (US$7 million) program proposed by the Water
Resources Management Board later in the Sixth Plan period. There are no
specific plans at present to provide piped water to the remaining 500 or so
villages in need of water supply.
Bank Group Involvement in the Bombay Metropolitan Region and in Maharashtra
41.       The Bank Group has been involved in the development of the water
supply and sewerage sector in the BMR since January 1974. The (first) Bombay
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 390-IN of January 22, 1974) provided
US$55 million to finance the development of Bombay's long-neglected water
supply and sewerage systems.  The project covered the first stage (1973-77)
of GOM's program for improving systems in Greater Bombay within the BMR over
the period 1971 to 1981. The project, which is being implemented by the
Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC), was subsequently reduced in scope because
of rising costs, and its completion was extended to 1979. Despite these set-
backs, the project is expected to achieve much of its original objectives of
increasing water supply by about 450 mld to a total of about 1,900 mld, pro-
viding full treatment and moderately improving the sewage collection system.
A second stage, covering works scheduled for implementation during the period



- 13 -
1977 to 1981, as well as items deferred from the first project, was financed
under the Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage project for which a US$196
million credit was approved (Cr. 842-IN of November 13, 1978). The project,
which is being implemented, covers the treatment, transmission and distribu-
tion of an additional 450 mld of water to the Greater Bombay area to meet the
needs of its 1991 population, estimated at about 11 million. The project
also provides for improvement and extension of the sewerage system from 44
to about 90% of the Greater Bombay area.
42.       In addition to the projects described above, the BMR has benefitted
through a US$25 million Bank Loan (No. 1335-IN of December 20, 1976) extended
for the Bombay Urban Transport Project. This project, which is designed to
improve bus services in Greater Bombay and to improve BMRDA's traffic manage-
ment and development planning activities, is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays. The Third Trombay Thermal Power Project for which a US$105
million loan was approved (Loan No. 1549-IN of June 19, 1978) assists the
construction of a 500 MW power station which is expected to contribute to the
reduction of power shortages in the Bombay area. Bombay's large industrial
sector has also benefitted from Bank Group lending to ICICI and IDBI as well
as for industrial imports.
43.       The Bank Group has also assisted Maharashtra's agricultural develop-
ment programs through four previous credits. Firstly, the Purna Irrigation
Project (Cr. 23-IN for US$13 million), approved in July 1962 and successfully
completed in 1968, financed the main infrastructure for irrigating the 60,000
hectare left bank area of the Purna River Valley. The Maharashtra Agricul-
tural Credit Project (Cr. 293-IN for US$30 million), approved on March 29,
1972, and disbursed in June 1976, assisted the refinancing of loans to farmers
in Maharashtra for minor irrigation, land development and land reclamation.
The Drought Prone Areas Project (Cr. 526-IN for US$35 million) approved on
January 24, 1975, assisted the improvement of agriculture in two districts
in Maharashtra under rainfed conditions. This project is proceeding satis-
factorily, although in the Maharashtra districts it suffered some initial
delay mainly because of inadequate technical staff. Finally, the Maharashtra
Irrigation Project (Cr. 736-IN for US$70 million) approved on October 11, 1977,
assists the infrastructure development of the Jayakwadi Irrigation scheme which
is the first step (183,000 ha) in a 10-15 year command area development
program designed ultimately to cover over one million hectares in the State.
Implementation of this project is satisfactory. Further Bank Group assistance
to Maharashtra's major irrigation sector is presently under consideration.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed project was prepared by BMRDA with the assistance of
ENE, consultants and Bank staff, and was appraised in November/December 1978.
The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 2377a dated April 17, 1979, is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in March/April 1979. The Government of India was represented by



- 14 -
Mr. B. S. Lamba, of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
and the Government of Maharashtra was represented by Mr. V. Venkatesan,
Secretary (Planning). A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Description
45.       The water supply component of the proposed project would include
the augmentation of the existing piped water systems in six towns (Thane,
Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Ambernath) and 22 villages, as
well as the provision of new piped water supplies in 82 additional villages.
The towns are long-established urban and industrial centers to the northeast
of the Greater Bombay Municipal area. The villages are, with a few excep-
tions, closely grouped around the six towns. These rapidly developing areas
will benefit under the proposed project through the provision for treatment,
transmission and distribution of an additional 200 mld of water which will
help to satisfy existing deficiencies and ensure an equitable distribution
of water to serve the needs of a 1991 urban and rural population of approxi-
mately 2.4 million.
46.       The sewerage component would expand and complete the systems under
construction in three towns (Thane, Kalyan and Bhiwandi). New collection
and treatment systems, and a safe means of disposing of sewage, will also be
included for the remaining three project towns, so that by 1984 the whole of
the urban population will have access to acceptable forms of sanitation,
sewage treatment and disposal. MWSSB expects to implement a rural sanitation
program at the same time as the proposed project with funds provided by GO01.
47.       MWSSB would supply water in bulk to the towns and villages in the
project area. The water would be drawn from the Ulhas River and would be
fully treated in four plants: the Badlapur plant, which is owned and operated
by MWSSB and is to be expanded under the project; the Temghar plant, an MWSSB
facility which is to be constructed under the project; and the Jambul and
Shahad plants, which are owned and operated by the Maharashtra Industrial
Development Corporation (MIDC). MIDC would make available to MWSSB sufficient
quantities of bulk water to meet project requirements (Section 2.07 of the
Maharashtra Agreement). While towns in the project area would operate their
own water distribution and sewerage systems, villages would be responsible
for the former only. Operation and maintenance of these systems would be
monitored by MWSSB. MWSSB would also implement a program satisfactory to IDA
to reduce transmission and distribution system losses to acceptable levels,
and to carry out water meter testing and repairs for local authorities
(Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
48.       The proposed project, which forms a large part of MWSSB's program,
will be implemented over four years by a separate unit already established
within MWSSB, headed by a Chief Engineer. Following a GOM decision to make
MWSSB fully responsible for sector development, the transfer of the staff of



- 15 -
the Environmental Engineering Organization (ENE) to TWSSB was scheduled for
January 1979. Following representations from ENE staff seeking clarification
regarding the terms and conditions of deputation to MWSSB, the transfer has
been deferred to permit resolution of these issues. In the meantime, the
staff continues to carry out its duties as part of the MWSSB's organization
while remaining employees of the State Government. Although MWSSB staff is
both capable and experienced in carrying out the proposed works, the addi-
tional workload envisaged under the project will require a considerable man-
power input during the initial years of its implementation. To meet this
need, MWSSB will require the assistance of consultants to complete final
engineering design of a major part of the water supply and sewerage systems;
the appointment of suitably qualified consulting engineers for the engineering
design of the project is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
49.       MWSSB is adequately staffed to carry out its engineering and techni-
cal functions; however, its financial and accounts staff is weak, primarily
because a separate government department provided these services to its pred-
ecessor. GOM and MWSSB agreed during appraisal that adequate staff for the
efficient performance of MWSSB's functions including its financial management
and accounting functions would be provided during 1979. Any vacant key posi-
tions will be filled by September 30, 1979, and thereafter any significant
changes in MWSSB's organizational structure will be made only after consulta-
tion with IDA (Section 2.01(c) of the Maharashtra Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$100.0 mil-
lion equivalent, including about US$4.2 million in taxes and duties. The
principal components are: water supply, US$36.5 million; sewerage works
US$21.6 million; MWSSB's engineering costs, US$3.9 million; land acquisition
US$2.1 million; consulting services and training, US$2.3 million; and mis-
cellaneous works, US$2.0 million. Physical contingencies amount to approxi-
mately US$9.3 million, while price contingencies of US$18.1 million are
based on annual price increases of 6.5% and 7.5% for equipment and civil
works respectively, in 1979/80, and 6% and 7% respectively, thereafter.
51.       The proposed credit of US$48.0 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of project costs, net of taxes and duties. The credit would finance
all foreign exchange costs (approximately US$9.7 million) and US$38.3 million
of local costs. GOM would contribute US$37.8 million, while participating
local authorities will contribute the balance of US$10.0 million.  The pro-
ceeds of the credit will be channelled through GOI to G014, on standard terms
as part of Central assistance provided to State Governments for development
purposes.  GOM will onlend these funds to MWSSB at 6-3/4% interest per annum,
for a period of 25 years, including four years of grace.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       All contracts for equipment, materials and meters would be awarded
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the
Association's guidelines, with the exception of contracts for sewer pipes,
fabrication of steel pipes (from steel plate purchased under international
competitive bidding procedures) and items costing less than US$50,000 with
an aggregate value of not more than US$1.0 million. Sewer pipes and the
fabrication of steel pipes, having a total cost of about US$2.2 million, are
either unsuitable for overseas purchases or are too low in value to attract
foreign bidders or to justify international bidding. Contracts for sewer
pipes and fabrication of steel pipes would be awarded under local competitive
bidding procedures, and items costing less than US$50,000 would be procured
under GOM's local procurement procedures, both of which are acceptable.
53.       All civil works for this project, with the exception of the Temghar
water plant, comprise a large number of relatively small contracts, which are
fairly widely dispersed throughout the project area, do not require special
plant equipment or techniques and are traditionally carried out by registered
contractors established in Bombay and other major Indian cities. These works,
which include labor-intensive pipe laying, construction of sewers and sewage
pumping stations, would not attract foreign bidders since it is clear that
overseas firms could not successfully compete with local bidders for works
of this type and size. The Temghar water treatment plant is the only large
civil works component in the project, and although some local contractors
are well qualified to bid for its construction, it may also attract foreign
bidders. It would therefore be subject to international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines.
54.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
cost of directly imported goods, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manu-
factured goods, 50% of expenditures for goods procured under GOM's local
procedures, 75% of the cost of civil works contracts, 100% of foreign expend-
itures for training, and 100% of the cost of consultants' services. A pre-
ference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the current rate of import duty,
whichever is less, would be granted to local equipment manufacturers competing
under international competitive bidding. A preference margin of 7-1/2% would
be allowed for local civil works contractors competing under international
competitive bidding. Most of the contracts for equipment and materials and
all contracts for civil works, with the possible exception of the Temghar
water treatment plant, are likely to be won by local contractors. Since the
early appointment of consultants to undertake the engineering design of both
the water supply and sewerage components is critical to project progress, it
is proposed that expenditures after April 1, 1979, for consultant services be
retroactively financed up to a total value of US$0.5 million (see paragraph
4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
Financial Position of Project Entities
55.       Present accounting and financing arrangements at all levels of the
sector are based on government rather than commercial practice. Water supply



- 17 -
accounts are kept on a simple cash basis. Water supply transactions are
consolidated with those of other services and any shortfall or surplus in water
supply revenues is funded from or contributes to the respective consolidated
State or local authorities' revenues. Separate income statements and balance
sheets for water supply are not prepared. ENE revenues were insufficient
to cover its operating costs, depreciation and interest, and deficits were
incurred in both FY1977/78 and FY1978/79 on Statewide activities which were
met from GOM's consolidated revenues.
56.       As part of a feasibility study for this project, BMRDA engaged
consultants to prepare financial statements for the project entities, in
accordance with commercial practice, and to revalue existing assets in the
project area. Income statements for the years 1974/75 through 1978/79 for
four of the six municipal towns in the proposed project area (Thane, Bhiwandi,
Kalyan and Dombivli) which presently operate their own distribution systems,
indicate a varied performance from a surplus in Thane to deficits in the
others, while the estimated financial position of the remaining two municipal
towns, which will shortly begin to operate their own distribution systems,
is generally satisfactory. Little information is available on the financial
position of the water distribution activities of villages under the proposed
project. However, indications are that revenues are sufficient to cover
operating costs.
57.       As part of GOM's program to establish MWSSB, ENE's fixed assets will
be transferred to the latter as GOM's equity contribution. MWSSB would not
be made liable for any operating deficits incurred prior to this transfer.
Thereafter, in order to monitor its financial viability, MWSSB will establish
and maintain a commercial accounting system for all its operations, including
those in the project area, for which it will also be required to maintain
separate accounts (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the Project Agreement). MWSSB has
yet to formulate a financing plan for its operations throughout the State,
which will include projects to be executed for local authorities in the Sixth
Five-Year Plan period ending in FY1982/83. This plan will be reflected in
MWSSB's annual investment programs which will be submitted to the Association
as part of the project reporting procedures. To protect its future viability,
MWSSB would obtain IDA's prior agreement to the incurrence of any long-term
debt, unless its overall operating surplus before depreciation, for its most
recent financial year, is at least 1.3 times the maximum debt service in any
future year (Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement). Furthermore, by
September 30, 1979, MWSSB will submit to IDA a program for the introduction
and operation of satisfactory financial management and information systems
(Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement).
58.       For the purpose of ensuring the viability of the water and sewerage
operations for the six project towns, GOM will require each town to prepare
and maintain separate accounts on a commercial basis for its operations
(Section 2.08(a) of the llaharashtra Agreement). Similarly, GOb! will also
require each village council in the project area to establish separate
accounts for its water supply operations (Section 2.08(b) of the Maharashtra
Agreement). Local authorities with a high proportion of accounts receivable



- 18 -
will be required by GOM to reduce these by March 31, 1981, to an acceptable
level, to be agreed with the Association (Section 2.10(a) of the Maharashtra
Agreement). Finally, GOM will also be responsible for ensuring that local
authorities in the project area pay their bills for bulk water supplies
promptly to MWSSB. Bills remaining unpaid for more than 90 days will be paid
by GOM through deductions from grants due to the local authority concerned
or by any other means available to GOM (Section 2.10(b) of the Maharashtra
Agreement).
Tariffs - MWSSB
59.       About 90% of the properties in the project area which have water
connections are metered and consumers pay for water according to the amount
used. Charges for water supplied to the few consumers with unmetered connec-
tions are either in the form of a percentage of the property tax or a fixed
charge on each property. On completion of the project, all connected proper-
ties will be metered. At present, there are few (less than 100) properties
connected to sewerage systems, and waste removal forms part of the conservancy
service which is charged to general revenues.
60.       A socio-economic study has been commissioned by BMRDA for the
project area which will provide a basis for the consideration of alternative
tariff structures. By April 1, 1980, GOM will review the bulk and retail
tariffs structures in the project area in consultation with MWSSB, the local
authorities and IDA, taking into account, among other things, consumers'
ability to pay and the economic cost of future expansion of these services
(Section 2.12 of the Maharashtra Agreement). MWSSB has adequate powers
under the MWSSB Act 1976, to charge for and recover the cost of water supply.
MWSSB will review annually and set its bulk tariffs in the project area to
cover operating costs and depreciation of fixed assets in operation beginning
April 1, 1980, and to provide additionally a rate of return on average net
fixed assets in operation of not less than 4% in FY83/84 and FY 84/85, 5% in
FY85/86 and 6% thereafter (Section 4.04(a) of the Project Agreement). MWSSB
will also be required to fix tariffs outside the project area at the commence-
ment of each financial year beginning April 1, 1980, to ensure that revenues
are sufficient to cover operating costs and the greater of depreciation or
debt service (Section 4.04(b) of the Project Agreement).
Tariffs - Local Authorities
61.       Adequate powers to levy charges have been granted to local author-
ities under the Maharashtra Municipalities Act 1965 and the Bombay Village
Panchayat Act 1958. However, by-laws framed under the 1965 Act need to be
extended to provide for the recovery of sewerage costs in proportion to the
volume of water consumed. This is being done by GOM. For the years 1980/81
through 1982/83 each of the six municipal towns in the project area will set
water and sewerage tariffs before the commencement of each financial year to
ensure that revenues are sufficient to cover operating costs, debt service
and its annual contribution towards project costs. In the event that the
revenues of any municipal town in the project area proves to be insufficient



- 19 -
to provide the proposed contribution towards project costs, GOII will ensure
that this contribution is met from other revenues of the town concerned
(Section 2.09(a)(i) of the Maharashtra Agreement). From 1983/84 onwards,
a rate of return covenant is proposed for the six towns, based on net fixed
assets in operation. The rate of return will be increased gradually as the
impact on domestic consumers will vary considerably from town to town, depend-
ing on the level of water demand by industry and commerce. Consequently,
from April 1, 1983, the level of municipal tariffs in the project area will
be set to ensure sufficient revenues to cover the greater of either (a)
operating costs, depreciation, and a rate of return on average net fixed
assets in operation of not less than 3% in FY83/84, 4% in FY84/85, 5% in
FY85/86 and 6% thereafter or (b) operating costs and debt service (Section
2.09(a)(ii) of the Maharashtra Agreement).
62.       The present levels of tariffs in the villages under the proposed
project are generally adequate to provide sufficient revenues to meet project
requirements until 1983. From April 1, 1983, village tariffs in the project
area will if necessary, be set at levels adequate to ensure that revenues are
sufficient to cover operating costs and any debt service requirements (Section
2.09(b) of the Maharashtra Agreement). The combined water and sewerages
charges would result in rates of between Rs 11 (US$1.28) and Rs 28 (US$3.26)
per month (at 1979 prices) in FY83/84 to an average family in the project
towns (excluding standpipe users). The monthly water charge for urban stand-
pipe users for the same period, if fully recovered, would range from Rs 3
(US$0.35) to Rs 7 (US$0.81) and for rural families between Rs 4 (US$0.47) and
Rs 7 (US$0.81) at 1979 prices. Any operating subsidy for the water supply
and sewerage services will be limited to the cost of supplying water by
public standpipe calculated at the domestic tariff (Section 2.09(c) of the
Maharashtra Agreement).
63.       The passage of satisfactory Resolutions by the M4unicipal Councils
of the participating towns is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Section 5.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement). Five of the
six participating towns have adopted Resolutions expressing their support and
willingness to take the necessary steps to implement the proposed project.
The sixth town (Thane) has approved its participation in principle but has
requested clarification of certain issues. GOM is confident that this town
will also adopt the required Resolution shortly. In the unlikely event that
this is not done by the terminal date for credit effectiveness, IDA would
reduce the proposed Credit by some US$10-12 million (the currently estimated
cost of the works to be carried out in Thane) and would not disburse against
such works.
Benefits and Risks
64.       Without the project, the six towns and about 20% of the villages
covered would have unreliable and intermittent water supply services, while
the balance, 80% of the project villages, would have no piped water at all.
Although sewerage systems are being constructed for parts of the project



- 20 -
area, few, if any, of the urban and rural population have access to acceptable
waste disposal systems. The project will enable all sections of the urban and
rural community, including the urban and rural poor, to have access to piped
supplies of potable water. Together with the provision of systems for collec-
tion, conveyance and disposal of human and industrial wastes in the urban
areas, and MWSSB's rural sanitation project for the villages, this will help
to alleviate the hardship, drudgery and disease which result from the present
inadequate water, sewerage and sanitation arrangements. The project would
also develop MWSSB's capability in planning and executing programs and the
capability of local authorities in operating and maintaining their own systems
through the provision of additional training for technical and administrative
personnel. The project would also foster the practices and concepts of sound
engineering, cost recovery and efficiency pricing in the public sector.
65.       Of the total incremental population of 1.4 million to be served by
the project, approximately 0.9 million represent the urban poor and predom-
inantly low income rural population. In urban areas, additional standpipes
will be provided to improve water supply services to an estimated 36% of the
urban population who live in slum areas. As a consequence, the long daily
waiting times at standpipes for water will be reduced and walking distances
shortened. As estimated 33% of the urban population will be provided with
water through standpipes. The remaining urban population will be served by
metered connections. Also, concessional credit would be extended by GOM to
the lower income groups of the community to facilitate connections to the
water supply and sewerage systems (Section 2.06 of the Maharashtra Agreement).
In rural areas, it is expected that 60% of the population will be served by
standpipes and the balance of 40% by metered connections.
66.       Preliminary health statistics indicate the prevalence of water-
and sanitation-related diseases throughout the project area. Statistics of
deaths maintained in municipal records for the period 1975-77 show that an
average of 8% of all deaths are attributed to such water-related diseases as
diarrhea, gastroenteritis, dysentery and typhoid. These mortality figures
however underestimate the incidence of these diseases. Although incidence-
related data are difficult to obtain and interpret, the municipal records
for one project town (Kalyan) indicate 65 reported cases of diarrhea, gastro-
enteritis and dysentery for each recorded death. Data on the incidence of
water-borne and sanitation-related diseases in the rural areas reveal the
same pattern of water-related diseases as in the towns. The incidence of
jaundice increased suddenly in 1978, particularly in the urban area, follow-
ing an epidemic of the disease in the region. Additionally, seven villages
reported cases of guinea worm in 1976 and 1977 with as much as 15% of the
population of any one village suffering from the disease. The introduction
of piped water is expected to reduce the number of guinea worm infestations
in the affected villages considerably. During the monsoon months, the inci-
dence of (and deaths from) water- and sanitation-related diseases increases
dramatically. During these months, heavy rains result in the overflow of
open drains spreading storm water contaminated by sewage over wide areas.
There is also deterioration in water quality and stagnant rainwater pools
become highly contaminated water sources.



- 2 1 -
67.       The internal economic rate of return of the project was calculated
using the incremental revenues based on present water charges in the project
area. The rate of return is 3.5% if labor is valued at its full market
price and 4.5% if labor is valued at 70% of its market price. With revenue
streams based on increased tariffs proposed upon completion of the project,
the rate of return rises to 8.3% if labor is valued at 100% of its market price,
and 9.4% if labor is valued at 70% its market price. The incremental revenue
represents a minimum proxy for benefits derived from the project. It does not
include benefits which cannot be meaningfully quantified. For example, the
amount by which consumers value additional consumption above the price paid
for additional water is not included. This consumer's surplus will be sig-
nificant in areas where the project is providing the first increments in
wholesome, reliable water consumption. Secondly, although sewerage costs
have been taken into account, no proxy for sewerage benefits has been included
in the revenue stream based on present charges, as there are no indicators
of consumers' willingness to pay for water-borne systems in the project area.
Finally, the method of calculation disregards the following benefits: improve-
ments in public health and environmental conditions; increases in labor pro-
ductivity and employment opportunities; improved institutional capabilities,
increased property values and the promotion of economic development which are
not quantifiable but which exceed the sum of individual benefits.
68.       The risks involved in the project are no greater than can normally
be expected with operations of this type. Because the project involves a sub-
stantial amount of civil engineering works, there is a risk that temporary
shortages of material, lateness on the part of manufacturers in meeting
contractual delivery deadlines or lack of management skills on the part of
contractors will lead to delays. However, these issues have been fully
discussed with both GOM and MWSSB, as well as GOI, and all precautions are
expected to be taken to minimize the impact of these delaying factors. A
further risk lies in the fact that the project concentrates on investment
in sewerage works against a background of low connection rates. The project
has however built-in provisions to encourage and facilitate connections to
sewerage systems. These are being successfully employed in BMR under the
on-going Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Maharashtra Agreement between the Association and the
Government of Maharashtra, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The execution of a contract between MWSSB and engineering consultants
for the engineering design of the project and the passage of Resolutions by



- 22 -
the six participating municipal towns are special conditions of credit
effectiveness (see paragraphs 48 and 63 above).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
April 18, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA NSHET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                      /
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                      I                                  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /a
TOTAL                       3287.6                                            SAME          SANE        NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL                1818.3                        MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME            INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b  ESTIMATE /b   REGION /c    GROUP /d           GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA(US$)                          60.0        90.0      150.0         167.4         182.9           432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         142.0        181.0      218.0(76)      65.7          88.9           251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          434.9        547.6     631.7 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   17.6           19.5       20.6          12.8          15.0            24.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000
(MILLIONS)               973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION
(MILLIONS)              1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY
POPULATION IS REACHED  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                         132.0        167.0     192.0           85.2          46.8            42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0        308.0      347.0         322.6        254.1             95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.0         41.6       42.0(77)      44.0          43.6            44.9
15-64 YRS.                            55.9         55.3      55.0(77)      52.9           53.3            52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.1          3.1        3.0(77)       2.9           2.9             3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.3        2.0           2.2           2.4             2.7
URBAN                                 2.5/2        3.4        3.5           4.2           4.0             8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         44.0         40.0       35.0(77)      45.1          44.3            42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         21.0         17.0       14.0(77)      17.3          19.7            12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.2          2.9        2.4(77)       3.2           2.9             3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        3768.0    4518.0
USERS(PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..          12.0       11.2          13.7          14.6            14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION               100.0        102.0      101.0          95.6          96.4           104.3
PER CAPITA (1969-71 = 100)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF CALORIES
(PERCENT OF REQUIREMENTS)            95.0         92.0      89.0          91.1          92.3             99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                51.0         53.0       48.0          49.6          50.0            56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            19.0         16.0       12.6          12.6          13.9            17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         28.0         22.0       10.0           ..            ..              7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        41.7         48.0       51.0(77)      43.1          45.8            53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                         ..         134.0     134.0          99.5         102.7             82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION
TOTAL                                 ..          17.0       33.0          30.0          26.4            31.1
URBAN                                 ..          60.0       83.0          66.3          63.5            68.5
RURAL                                 ,,           6.0       20.0          17.2          14.1            18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                 ..          18.0       20.0          15.7          16.1            37.5
URBAN                                 ..          85.0       87.0          66.9          65.9            69.5
RURAL                                 ..           1.0        2.0           2.5           3.4            25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5840.0/h    4890.0    3135.0(77)   8830.8         13432.7           9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11590.0/h    5220.0    6320.0(76)   8479.3           6983.3          2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2590.0/i    2020.0    1231.0(77)   1624.5          1157.6            786.5
URBAN                                 ..           ,.         .,            ..          183.3           278.4
RURAL                                 ..           ,.         ..            ..        1348.8           1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..         .,            ..           19.5            19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          . .        5.2           ..           5.2
URBAN                                 5.2          ..         4.8           ..            4.8
RURAL                                 5.2          ..         5.3           ..            5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.8        ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            ..            1.8             2.3
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS
TOTAL                                 ..           .,         ..            ..           25.9            28.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..            ..            8.7            10.3



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET            Page 2 of 5
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                      /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME            SAME       NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC        INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b   ESTI1MATE /b    REGION /c         GROUP Id       GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:       TOTAL                   61.0         72.0       79.0(76)        59.1             62.9          75.8
FEMALE                  40.0         55.0       63.0(76)        38.4             45.9          67.9
MALE                    80.0          87.0      94.0(76)
SECONDARY:    TOTAL                    20.0         29.0       28.0(76)        19.9             14.4          17.7
FEMALE                  10.0         17.0       18.0(76)         9.9              8.8          12.9
MALE                    30.0          39.0      38.0(76)
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)        8.0         6.0         ..              1.5             6.6           7.4
PbPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                29.0         38.0       40.0             38.2            38.5          34.3
SECONDARY                              16.0         17.0         ..            23.5             19.8          23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)              28.0         33.0       36.0            35.6            36.7          63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.7           1.0       1.2(76)          2.2             3.1           7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               5.0         21.0      24.0(76)         14.9            31.1          71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..          0.1         0.5             ..              2.8          14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                        11.0         16.0      16.0(75)          6.4             6.0          16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         4.0          6.3        3.8             ..              1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         175000.0    218000.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       31.3         32.6       32.2            21.3             24.2          28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   73.0         73.8      72.5             62.8            60.7          54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     10.4          9.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                      43.0         40.2      39.2             35.8            39.8          37.8
MALE                                       57.1         52.3      51.3             52.4            53.3          50.3
FEMALE                                     27.9         27.1      26.2             15.6            19.6          20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                       1.1          1.1        1.1             1.3             1.3           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        26.7         25.0/1      ..             18.6            20.3          19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS       51.7         53.1/1      ..             42.8            45.1          48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         4.1          4.7/1      ..              7.3             5.7           5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        13.6         13.1/1      ..             19.3            16.8          15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROL'PS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        83.0(77)        80.2            88.5         155.9
RURAL                                    ..          ..        73.0(77)        67.2            71.9          97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..          ..        80.0(75)         ..            100.8         143.7
RURAL                                    ..          ..        50.0(77)        39.8            42.0          87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..          ..        47.0(77)        50.3            46.0          22.9
RURAL                                   ..           ..        52.0(77)        44.6            48.0          36.7
Not available
.Not applicable
NOTES
la   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic   South Asia; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); /e  Tower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);
/f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million; /g 1951-60;  /h 1962;  Li  1958;  /i  1967;
/k 1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million; /1 1964-65.
March, 1979



ANNEX I
pEj,jr-M9 o   SQIAL    ICAORSPage    3   of   5
Noise: ~Aith.oght the data are drawnt fre      orc  generally judged the nMoat .thoritntim  ted reliable, it should alc be noted chat they n.y not he Lnterns-
cioncilp  -eparoelo becamse of the lack of  tnadardined definitlon   Sod concepts Oasd by different onutri.. in collectino  the dat.  The data at.  anthles
_af,l to descri,  ordr_ of eantd indicate trnods, aed  hb-a-criati-e certain eaje  diff-eenc.- heb. e-                   oenit
The  djuted  roo  aveeon  forouc  indcatr ar  poularoe-aeihtedigamtinG  mean., excluding tbe etamrn  valu. of the indicator an   he metPoPuIatd
cou"try in each grot.  Du Sto lat  of data, Sretp a-rage. o .11 iniaoefrCpu   eps    i  eatr   ndo   niaaeo   eeat   a    n   ert
disPosL, Ifoocing, Ioces  distribotims cod Poverty far other country gro rs  fore Copuaictal igb il ga rteric nean  (t.odi aSl nofted  extast vle   n
an  nt populated c.-try,  Slt tecveaetfcunresan    trooindiatom  dpeLetndo a                              gvi _bilt, o  d__ co  hintclo.cuio   nth   nct
tod                                                                                                                            f          Iat    uauseofoe  oletr-oteter    hnocorst remetycafuts oradstoeSfodsttd    Slecrencetrsete  cce   f  n
iedictor a  a tie enea th ncunth.an r--geec f   rc_una
LAOS ARiA  (thousand sq. he)                                                       poewleto   e   bsce  -Pplte                ia  bym etne f th ractIcIng . pha-
ToalS otl  ufceaa neeprdieltg lan  araadIanoter     dT-         Laters                   cie_ aseelifled free  of ediclsho   tuovrylvl
lie     M       o    ..    -J.gln                  Sdiln fallow.                       0selatis  ser oh-oitlha - PPItotliubn  anid.       rrl-Pplto    ttl
ora. d       aorl   divdedhy t.heir rSpetien rohsptlbd
CUP Pi CAITA  011)- raPPert captiam osf    te ar.~ t~ curent narid  prcS vlal   npalc  e   rvt   eea   n   pelsdhsia   n   e
OhO,P1970,tl and    crop7data    r,at lkteastit                                                 one physici toAn.M  Setebie .ti- proidinyg        64  o pricply catedlal
cparetare ne  inctlude ad.  oe  heeitla .h..e. inclde.. heit_t -adead
aNd lios,pioetoRaua   c  endPbTdro-, nuclarpad gSetherbe ltni. nursl, idwife,4b etc.heich offe  InpaIeta                                                   dto an
electicity  in ilogren  of  od  eqivalen t per-cpt.                          proid  altitdPreicfesdca  fciices
POPULATION 61-r111 VIwTa  WrldSek AtL   195T7ATIiSTICiSbL fre  hepit la diidd by the cobe                                      "` of bode.t
(clNculSMlo  PEIco  ofIT   caocI  - OsPtioofura  to totai. populationl             Ovese sloem nof pocee       tld tos ffds by Se pcchysicist (coel obf S    sedi  mote
.difrndfllcs  of-  trhsi Srean Sa   fetcsaailyc  data                                  0  hnaotd conlatde Iof a groupofitdvd               h   hrslvneqatr
anong couniries.                                                             end theirhdr-einoneale.. IShoehde.or looger ma  ornay-d not be Inlde-d Inh
Peoutlaclon   it Ykarog00m - Cret popu-tlatio   paro Spitoaae.  basdtn ve tg nser of e                        fen  set coo -hic a.ora.  n Ofc tPtet  aoral -doeai  Sodb
1975toti ppclclo  byageandseeandther mrtaityendferiliy          o  peso2   pe  ma1.-l- in all  urban, sad corf  otoied.. t.onosei-h- dwllgs
Tosin   lif eon oct            Ill-)t birt   inrasn  t.ity  coun60,try 7pe  caiad     155toeetrct                    h.cto   .-f    ofllme    toa d.s  adrua
Incs lvel  Pand.. f tel  lifett1  e     Raeteec f stbllll  eo  77.l  years.ia         CunvtioSite  dfeliogw       it 1eletiiyinrvc                tr   upecnaeo
dihe prendafte   o  fertility  areats als  haveff eelt  gasebiicg   dtcIn              thotal sheldo  ad.0 cofel  aweling   "eepetivel.;         l rbc        drrl
conasce.  Each country in then sesighnedv none                                      I .    boaref othese y9-  m  not nato.a.d.  E. th
Sttos, PYeuarti00 -  Cera StatIonarytPonpulation,thn,  in0 nb#. ssrt             frirsPoo   -to"al   rl end  emal   Erosu. tonal rele an  felS.  -enrol
lcar Sh. hitc  rateob Iseqalnt  the Sdeeth. ruts,    tt ond al ftertage t           not of all ease rat the prImar level as peocn.Pand ofnspctivea prhesry
s:trouc8ore  texn   p.nucter. Thi.i  achlitve  only.  oftrp fertility  rates           sopch -age    .opuliatin.  ser ly includes childr-trenaed b-Il years       dpabtt
goSeioof ose  r           Stee births  oncotly.   the  tttontry'  por  lation         universal edaaca.tio  sacoreent Ofy deaeed) 10  percentsince, eons pupil  er
tt-   I.cusI,ated  onethe helsof th  projec.y  ted   hetecterS tl7.  ee   fth-elso shlon e the offS.itih o.ctrn ag.it   .j"Sqr;.   .c                              eo
h  o-uastiotri thfyar   2000,  ndi th r  aceI.M  of dcine ofsferIngdlityrt             teotdaly shool -  rurel. m-lt.San  fe.els-ti      ta    s  bve   etsar7ua
Youfrt itelotay .... r cion tc Rache 1-  The ypar fwham  ptatInaryg  npera-            gnrloctoa,o  ece   riigiartin    o   uie                                   yo
cto  ie   "aabenreachedh..                                                             12gad-   o  to  17a?u   Rj~   yearswn rfae   oraednacuse    eeal   xldd
Pterso. on.   1 Mid.-yearpopuationapryeur  bSterA. (15  he rarsth                       tecd-a,A,indue.,tSil, or  othr  roe  which toteate itd.ndeeily otrall
of total area.                                               departc  of eacondary. t~   inarytocfna
per  u.the. birich  trate L. e q-  Ctnpthd  as shov fl Sorgitl        llad .1ustilg.-tashc  aio-Ormr,  n  aend1 S                       Totlr tuentsgso   resro-i-    lem
oplti_on ace  is crots tactanTh)  is Chilre(-14 lyears- fortiitygrage.                 sphodifeg pepele. as            U     mdshlre,Sd61   er 
(o15-41ya-t7   o rericad 1- oh      f year   and oer spercetin,rtaes o hnid ch      A jadutlt c  rat difnr et) 1-gh  o itriate adutaiabl  toaree  adwrIte) ath
yea p. pulation o ,   ap..   tpercaty                 r.Sttinrytpagte - -                           doftotal adl         mopyto  aged SIG yecnt r  ne atd over.a
Pooclacltn   cad, rate (cthon bai   toftal, produrban  .. cnroun  annual .              b1--tte,t.  fiia   caa 
grou1thr-e  ofhyer200   o totlht oea idyar popudlai  on.   fortility-     m                                         l 40,l  -CSoda   bea     rae7d.
_96_-1, un1t7-77.                                                                    taeeeroaS Sfntthouan   yeoarsiofn)p .. pedragecare conptr~.ia motrwodrs
Crud  ht.irtzrt  Pioar thoc,d -. Reacuad livoeabrths pe Sthousand ofal                   aratLngl -thana,r egteapersons;       i- exc ude.ra tincee  heae  andl m-Ilitaoy
old-year  ouaIon. r1..4ho. 190ad297daa                                                  ehce. 1    a       fae    raadr.cre    r   eeal   xldd
Perod  det   a.(a   hust7-Ana   ets e.huadoMi-                                         aleevr    a   Ihoaen th-aauon P,              all tpes of cuaivrtIyfor rads
Vest poplaionltbr,197 la od  1977d  .    ~   a data.Ithroadoad                          ti  togeneral publictd pr thouand-  -'of pep ..aciont Stroldee unLc.
Gros  ostodttlc rts    hvecgeousar  f dnghsre    wen olI  ear      opelosray  in counrisanday =    dinyear  she  ..gbcailnf r... h  o satehw.  Inr
1 1toie  orea  toprodctv period if Chilr anprle14  p.renus a-kge-.                      efec;di ta fo   eet  er   ayerh lsrbesic   ut  o rn
spciI nfr dlt  rate-; usc earsy iv -ycor avrgs p-odtig in 1940              AdbItlishedt  rateenaing           Ltlted1              (be  -rd  n    it)S
Folly  lnio-ucoos   eol(hossdl   nuloae   fpbi pP-ars to thousand population;exclude Sonlc earsd TVd revrsncon
accPto.4 re o  br.th-control            a dSvierbnde   auspices o   nel nal fll ~       tisa i   et   hnrgnrto    fT   ao .i   fat
Va thil  -lanin  f users andrceot ofearne  pop           mtttg  of                     NWIonof"algerlinrstespe",diedncprilclpl-
19rodvseo  cid-atngae  1-4   eesPhoue  lthcete                                          ation devted pfrimarly t  ranrd:ig  -asseelsnger.cIt Isconsidre torcs
irth -t   (-   th .... dl - I li. birth  par thmoEdeofa1a7Sual cthndno  eecest                   dor  ea  -balaneed onteaonse  of tinitar
10icc  f fon  oroo  6boee  ca Sod (19h97107 -d           oenntbr  f  e                  onusa.
capita c a-tua  (prodution of  All  fo deaodthus prt. - ofi                          Rr                            dltp:f                               -nar d
Vet cuofta nu   960, 1of 0c-lori7s  dcro t of                                               reeouireente7    Confutedf freione                       lde.=LLom
ocory pqL aln  of' tat forod cpp ri of available in S.tantr  per ceapit               TotallabrsL forte rioSond  in Y-  nn -h-l reisrtiveprona  Including    ind
per da. 1 Availabldupl perodpe if oh.prt.c prdu tmn    mporsls                        fforce    t ad  nemloedsbt ayearsdl og hasive - ambdnts  stoc.         tefini-
etforife, and  lchge  In coc.   at13   supplIe  -Sood  a..oa.  fend  seed,            tIolinhevarious cosrs agotcoprb
qu0,Sotidous   nfo   rcsto   n   ousI   iriuin                          e           feels (Ptias rcenth - fel  laorulafore - soVprcetagen of-total labor fore.ea
quirneeI-ng wet .ntima.a by-..I (haaad on phuiologi.. bard ofo  nr                      rioTtr   ntel P.,Ibor forltem SId. farming,foreTVry,  uning and flel
mad. activit  en bthealthI coederiog  ndlro.-pi... o eprtar, heady                     aris ped intage o   oal labo  feirct. f VSm             oafet
calohe.Saeodetdarhtoso   ouain   n   ioig1   e-                                      Idsr  (usrrent) - Labo  foce In e ting,            -Ih ooaccth, enf ctiring a
coot  c iws  _a  .rat h Percd epel ofcriiy  watr a    gc   spretaeo   oa    brfre
capita ca   upyo  odprdy    e Lol   ffo   sdfnda                                         el  labotfoeof        pecenage  of their rIelatctivda poultion: 1960l197
abve    eqienne  o  alcosriseeebihm    y  lb  rviefo                          nd175dta   Tee  r  (.'salucd  scliaco   ratesrafecdtinoa
elnrr     elowtd   of 6f   gras-eain   of tota  proei  per day birdth0rastse nto,dwctr  tf  othepplytration,ad  log   c    ted
d-f..at.na  end porised p =otein,o  tahih 10* frnj  hol-pn lpoen.                    tonni 'dieeodaif    ratiop - Stlasto ofpopulation une  Ian   5  ndoert
(basstndrd  a   lne  tenthesof75grmsoftoalprten  ndth  lbo fid                   i  age grou  of1 r4 700r0.B..               h   me   ft..
I fALO  In theemThsird  dold Pondmeslodrvby1
Pe  c Mla   doei  tos'l  fre 9on"  and 9-71100 - Protei  sapb- of food           Peniaeon.         vt   ae  (ohi  abadhnd   eevdb   ihs
and t OfCgrcnpl-ries Poo, to childre inthseage  grop.rdfm OM
pIarLTI-Ib...pi.-re   4sttpdton    .                                    .I.             fetorcdaboue   ooetr  -incas           havol(10ee  oetdoatuhuean  rural i.-
.l.s.rmoe  Sodc  at.bIr. Lveerk. -NVeagt ou r oft.     - msd e of- lfe.4 reeda-        Ahonue  poveratyoon   avlIcht  leon   evlbaorwic    sIaa
ing. athitch: 1960. 1970,oad   1977im  :dte                                            uitealdqo dint.t-    R-FaL   p1b 0 forcencia poon-fond  teotalolaortsfuto
qofai  mot.lt --t (,etar  by FOun bsd    d- Ana dpehs lofgicfants. ud da f-.r-m)foArdalnfa                                               frsty   hnig   dfihn
00too I  -   sea per h housand livo births.           t                             cati,bodne.ted  elaI  nof ett.  lxoro 1ar.1   SSntcos(-htadrul-
Ace   t  es    ad     dicr  trib.tiof tofoat     toLtial,.d ur1a ingted rural-        Selectee (Poerety   Lacboa level  in r-hr  of.S   avtragtot percapta petSod
Stashr of:  poops (tta,h uran  u dcra) ,,ithreasoable  ccoesto                        Inas  tfthe cutcon
soft ccor auply a(toiio  trastn   Puf rt,ctersoin      cota   o canostdotnuaof                        olS! ahtlt _    ora_r  Inuoleb(atot.ura   n
unooOnOaedofcrsc   sta   repoete    oeoa.arns                                         o D-arr   Peren af (Z.ece   (ca   Tr tC   cocvanlt pour.
a-dosicacl aIlly   aeoo p.arcceo  ofy V.,f  respective                                                     a  prcntge   o populations.qleia                       96, 97
ucctuf  ha  hooc.fI  coc I'  esof  tetas notein paroe  coul.d  inpit                        --     f   .pp.to,ad  -    i
that te hocowifopr mLnbec  ci  do hcodholddo rcrofVePtospetd
.ces  cccccr -d Pi'    oa   eorn of hi oh 10 S or) h-I bc. orban  anIcou pcc coalyntsi9                                                      an,  5od   65l and  o.-r tvoc
rural    hottr of  eoplecots .  th   of, 75 Ucst. aoftoda hr cccto and-                iatch, 19"79ars
SoaIa   ecnao  af. Mthei  roopcccv  foruthctorld tocpoa   bypoa
'o rar cid   cr c'- Po"lcicoddacs.0tho   ihu   ruoat
honr  ecct. roetin0wet-ae  iv  Sodtocbros   Proo teant rtpepuy of Vtt                   .     S'
Vt-iCOuu   collar =   tullSattoro.              d                                      ecn        d7a''    "           .r.     0p-Sc    .    or-4    ecn



ANNEX I
ICoaIc D1lymIT an                          Page 4 of 5
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977: V) 150
b/                                                                                                  C
GROSS NATIONL PRODUCT IN 1977/78                              eYWAL  2OF CUMl  M2. content prices)
Ila Sin.      .t                                             1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1976t77
GNP at MArket Prices            101.47      100.0                                                 3.9                 3.8                3.2
Gross Domestic Inveastment       21.65       21.3
Gross National Saving            22.77       22.4
Current Account Balance  d/       1.04        1.0
Resource Balance  _/            - 0.31     - 0.3
OUTPUT. LABOR FP1CE AND PROouCTITY IN 1971
Value AAdad (at factor coet)        Labor Force             V.A. fer Yorfer
V#2$ 51n.        7               Mil.....  S.n,             O        S of National Average
Agriculture                       24.5           46.6              130.0    72.1            18               64
Industry                          11.8           22.3              20.2    11.2              582             199
Services                          16.3           31.1              30.2      16.7            542             186
Total/average                     52.6          100.0              180.4   100.0             292             100
GOVERNKT FINANCE
General Govyrent                                            Central Govermnt
Rs. SBlo                                                     eBDfc
1977/78      18 _                                                                     1974/75-1977/78
Current Receipts                 164.42         18.9          18.2                            95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Expenditures             157.29         18.1          16.5                            95.27         10.9            9.9
Current Surplus/Deficit            7.13         0.8            1.6                             0.35         n.e.            0.6
Capital Expenditures  f/          62.58          7.2           7.0                            43.31          5.0            5.0
External Assistance (net) S'       9.82          1.1           1.6                             9.82          1.1            1.6
MONFY  CRZDIT AND PRICKS            1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78     Septmber 1977    S&tember 1978
(Rs billion outstanding at and of period)
Money and Quasi Honey                121.4      198.4      220.3      254.7      30.9       365.1          334.8            395.8
Bank  Credit to Govermnt (net)        52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector       64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                            Januar  1978      January 1979
Money and Quasi money as 7 of GDM     30.1       33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8        184.5             184.6
Annal percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Indea                  7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
Bank Credit to Goverment (net)        10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1        9.0        17.7         13.4              16.9
Bank Credit to Comrcial Sector        19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
a/ The per capita GP estimate is at _rket prices, calculated by the conersion technique ued in the World Atlas.
All other couversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during tbe period covered.
b/ Quick latiatas.
c/ Caoputed from trend line of GMI at factor cost series, incluiing one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necesearily consistent with officisl National Account Statistics.
e/ Transfers between Centre end States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
B/ ExternAl grants and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
h/         h/
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                 MERCHANDISE EXPOBTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(USs million)                                                       US$ Mn.        7.
Exports of Goods                  4,672      5,753       6,276        6,80o               Engineering Goods              610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928        -7,237      -8,400               Tea                            417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600               Gi_s                           377          7
NFS (net)                           310        360          650         700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                       Products               278          5
i/                                                              Jute Manufactures              267          5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180         - 50          -                Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)          -          -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  |/                   470        730        1,400      1,300                Sugar                          244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account       -1,213        735        1,039         400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341     1,953        1,628       1,805               EXTEBNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1978-
Amortization                   - 531     - 560        - 645        - 725                                                    US$ billion
Transactions with IMF               242      - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                14.8
All Other Items                    - 45      - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                    Undisbursed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/       1,365      3,276        5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOB 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                IBRD/IDA LENDIG, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                     US$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                  IBRD          IDA
Exports                              43         37           33       n.a.                Outstanding and Disbursed          613         3,864
of which: Petroleum                22        21           18        n.a.               Undisbursed                         615         1,992
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to aid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              US$1.00 - Re 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IHF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' re ittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1979)
USS Million-/
Loan or                                                                                             (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.        Year       Borrower                      urpose                            Bank           IDA        Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                                 1,100.6
55 Credits fully disbursed                                                                               3,338.6
267-lN            1971        India         Wheat Storage                                     --              5            2.73
294-IN            1972         India        Bihar Agricultural Markets                        --             14.0           3.82
312-IN            1972        India         Population                                       --              21.2          3.21
342-IN            1972        India         Education                                         --             12.0          7.39
356-IN            1972        Isd-a         IDBI                                              --            25.0           9.44
378-IN            1973        India         Mysore Agricultral Markets                       --              8.0          6.67
902-IN            1973         ICICI        Industry DFC X                                    64.8           --            0.26
390-IN            1973         India        lombay Water Supply                               --             55.0         14.80
427-IN            1973         India        Calcutta Urban Development                        --             35.0          4.39
440-M1            1973         India        Bihar Agricultural Credit                         --             32.0          8.70
456-IN            1974         India        HP Apple Processing & Marketing                   --             13.0          8.80
481-IN            1974        India         Tronbay IV                                        --             50.0          6.38
1011-IN            1974        India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                           52.0          --            28.67
482-It            1974         India        Ka-eataka Dairy                                   --             30.00        22.74
502-IN            1974        India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                               --            83.0          44.43
520-IN            1974         India        Sindri Fertilizer                                 --            91.0           7.58
521-IN            197'        India         Ra.j-thba  Dairy                                  --             27.7         22.89
522-IN            1974        India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                             --             16.4          12.68
526-IN            1975        India         Draught Prone Areas                              --             35.0          18.55
1079-1:            1975        IFFCO         IFFC0 Fertilizer                                109.0            --           33.52
1097-IN            1975        ICICl         Industry DFC il                                 100.0           --            11.52
532-IN            1975        India         Codavari Barrage Irrigation                      --             45.0          18.21
541-IN            1975        India         Went Bengal Agricultural Development             --             34.0          22.02
562-IN            1975        India         Chanbal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                     --             24.0          12.14
572-IN            1975        India         Rural Eleotrifi-ation                            --             57.0          37.65
585-IN            1975        India         Uttar Pradesh Water Su?plv                       --             40.0          31.96
598-IN            1975        India         Fertilizer Industry                              --            105.0          77.93
604-IN            1976         India        Power Transmission IV                             --           150.0         109.73
609-IN            1976         India        Madhva Pradesh Forestry T.A.                     --               4.0          3.05
610-IN            1976        Ind:a         Integrated Cotton Development                    --             18.0          16.45
1251-IN(TW)        1976        Tndia         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                       145,0           --           130.21
1260-IN            1976        India         IDBI II                                          40.0           --            31.66
1273-IN            1976         India        National Seeds                                    25.0          --            24.65
1313-IN            I976        Iod_o         Teleoonmunicarinss VI                            80.0            -            25.35
1335-IN            1976        BMRDA         inobay Urban Transport                            25.0          --            16.04
680-IN            1977        India         Kerala Agri-ultural Development                  --             30.0          29.85
682-IN            1977        India         Orissa Agricultural Development                  --             20.0          18.79
685-IN            1977        Indi4         Singrauli Thermal Power                          --            150.0         133.90
687-IN            1977        India         Madras Urban Development                         --             24.C          19.36
695-IN            1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                                --              4.0           4.00
1394-IN(TW)        1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                                14.0           --            14.00
690-IN            1977         India        West Bengal Agricultural Develonment             --             12.0          12.00
712-IN            1977        India         Madhva Pradesh Agricultural Development    --1.                               10.00
715-IN            1977        India         Second ARDC Credit                               --            200.0         121.18
720-IN            1977        India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                        --             23.0          20.76
728-IN            1977        India         Assam Agricultural Develop.ent                   --              8.0           7.79
1473-TN            1977        India         Bombsy High Offshore Development                150.0           --            81.99
736-IN            1977        India         Maharashtra Irrigation                           --             70.0          66.95
737-It            1977        India         Rajasthan Agricultural Entension                 --             13.0          12.40
740-1N            1977        India         Orissa Irrigation                                --             58.0         55.96
1475-IN            1977        ICICI         Industry DFC XII                                 80.0           --            61.14
747-ITN           1978         India        Second Foodgrain Storage                         --            107;0        104.18
756-IN            1978        Ind'a         Second Calcutta Urban Development                --             87.0          75.33
761-IN            1978        India         Bihar Agrioultural Exte-nion & Resear-h    --                    8.0           8.0
1511-IN            1978        India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                         25.0           --            25.0
1549-IN            1978        TEC           Third Tronbay Thermal Yower                     105.0           --            97.55
788-IN            1978        India         Karnataka Irrigation                             --            126.0        126.0
793-IN            1978        India         Korba Thermal Power                              --            200.0        200.0
806-IN            1978        India         Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                       --             14.0         14.0
808-IN            1978        India         Gujarat Irrigation                               --             85.0         85.0
815-IN            1978        India         Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                         --             17.5         17.5
816-IN            1978        India         Second National Seeds                            --             16.0         16.0
1592-IN            1978        India         Telecommunications VII                          120.0           --          100.12
824-IN            1978        India         National Dairv                                   --            150.0        150.0
842-IN*           1978        India         Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage            --           196.0         196.0
843-IN            1978        India         Haryana Irrigation                               --            111.0        111.0
844-IN            1978        India         Railway Moderrization 6 Mafntesance              --            190.0        188.61
848-IN            1978        India         Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage                 --             38.0         38.0
855-IN            1979        India         National Agricultural Research                   --             27.0         27.0
862-IN*           1979        India         Compasite Agricultural Eotensios                 --            25.0          25.0
871-IN*           1979        India         NCDC                                             --            30.0          30
1648-IN*           1979        india         Ramaeundue Ther-1, P- er                         50O0           --           50.0
874-IN*           1979        India         Ramagundam Thermal Tower                         -_           200.0         7   n
Total                                                                  2,285.4         6359.40
of which han been repaid                                               Q2..6          /.1 ,
Total now outstanding                                                  1,I61.RB         6373,67
Amount Sold                            133.3
of which has been repaid             111.5                              21.8       _
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                         1,339.96        6313.67
Total undisbuhsed  (oexluding 01                                         601l,g 7a n7.qf
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to eochange adjustment                                                                     April. 1979



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1979)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -         0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -         0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.4      13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3       1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8      18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6        -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0       1.4        5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                  6.0        1.6       7.6
Repaid                              15.3         -        15.3
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            26.1        8.1       34.2
Undisbursed                          5.1        0.8        5.9



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,890 million
as of February 28, 1979, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 (US$22.2 million) are also ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to M4arch 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Credit 715 is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
currently estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%.
Training programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 747). The Second Project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote mush-
room production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 to 10 packing and grading
sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment has been ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed. The Jammu Kashmir Horticulture
Project was declared effective on January 16, 1979.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313 supports the expansion of the Indian telecommunications
system through the provision of funds for the installation of 220,000 direct
exchange lines and expansion of the trunk network. A second loan (Loan 1592)
continues support of the development of India's telecommunication system
through FY 1981 and as well contributes to the improvement of the Indian
telecommunication industry. Both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$65 million had
been awarded by December 1978.  This Credit included a supplementary Credit
of US$30 million to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under the
Third Power Transmission Project; all but US$4 million of this amount has
also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 598 is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
November 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for
50, and loans approved for 49 markets. Construction had been completed for
19 and was in progress for 31 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 11
market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and
improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is
improving. As of October 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion was underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisi-
tion are nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are
expected to be completed by their respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31,1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$9.3 million by the end of
March. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; (expected) Effective
Date: June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date:  January 25, 1979,
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), re-
design of major project components and the addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of
additional water (455 mld) in the second quarter of 1979; completion of water
treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically fore-
cast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has
allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so
that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for mid-1980,
two years later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the
project entity is satisfactorily. Credit 848 was declared effective on
schedule and preliminary work in connection with its implementation is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by December 1979. Credit
756 is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's admin-
istrative authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to reha-
bilitate and extend its urban service system.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUI dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 700 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment
jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the Karnataka project. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 252 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. The response of small farmers to the project is excellent.
GOMP has plans to cover all districts in the State. Technical services in-
vestments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports.
The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed
and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
800 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and
procurement is making adequate progress. Based upon the good results expe-
rienced, GOR is planning to expand the form of dairy development to all other
districts of the State.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements reached 59% of total credit amount as of
December 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:  January 7,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
May 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects, totalling US$123 million, finance the re-organi-
zation and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of
adaptive agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early
and sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date
(expected): May 2, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project is intended to strengthen the institutional framework
responsible for promoting and financing development of cooperatives, partic-
ularly village level multipurpose cooperative societies.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:  November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273 supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now gaining momentum after GOI filled the two top posts
of the National Seeds Corporation which were vacant for several months. A
project supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit
816) is now effective.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for all 700 bus chassis and nearly all 700 bus bodies
to be procured under the project have been awarded and some 500 buses have
been delivered. Civil works contracts have been awarded for 8 bus facilities,
and 24 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some
BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps
are being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, admin-
istration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Develop-
ment Authority. Other beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal
Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have
selected consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management
assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date:  September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
These projects finance the construction of fishing harbors, seafood
processing plants and other facilities required to assist the development of
fisheries in the States of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The projects also
provide funds through ARDC to assist fisherman to purchase 9-15 meter vessels
and 9 meter canoes. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of
these projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbo-generators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements reached 45% of the loan amount on February 28, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years
(b)  The agency that has prepared the project
Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
in association with the Enviromnental Engineering
Organization of the State Department of Urban
Development.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
May 1977; August 1977
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 29, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
April 6, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
August 29, 1979
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) MWSSB to appoint engineering consultants as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  MWSSB to fill any key vacant positions in its
establishment by September 30, 1979, and to
consult IDA when any significant changes in
its organizational structure are contemplated
(para 49);
(c)  MWSSB not to incur any long term debt without IDA's
approval, unless its overall operating surplus, be-
fore depreciation, for its most recent financial
year is at least 1.3 times the maximum debt service
in any future year (para 57);
(d)  MWSSB to annually review and set its bulk tariffs in
the project area to cover operating costs and depre-
ciation beginning April 1, 1980 and from April 1,
1983, provide additionally a rate of return of not
less than 4% in FY83/84 and FY84/85, 5% in FY85/86,
and 6% thereafter (para 60);
(e)  Participating towns to set water and sewerage tariffs
before the commencement of each financial year to
ensure that revenues are sufficient to cover operating
costs, debt service and its annual contribution to-
wards project costs for FY80/81 through FY82/83 and
from April 1, 1983 set tariffs to cover the greater of
either (a) operating costs, depreciation and a rate of
return of not less than 3% in FY83/84, 4% in FY84/85,
5% in FY85/86 and 6% thereafter, or (b) operating costs
and debt service (para 61);
(f)  Participating Villages to set tariffs from April 1,
1983 at levels to ensure that revenues are sufficient
to cover operating costs and any debt service require-
ments (para 62); and
(g)  The passage of Resolutions expressing their participa-
tion in the project by the Six towns is a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 63).



rl /o Svro/   21      l b flh-eduho                                                                                         1, -_~    /                 . othro/ 3.7        
PAKISTAN(        -    CHINA
- W I* t   a'I    N   D  I   A ;
LANKA
' ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 B j!/  , ,/ e
W~~c                                                                                                                                         K. '                 2.r1
.iror )::                                                                                                 A a;  .X; )  /,    T
V   Vol
F- v                                        V                                                            S.  --~f hK   B .b. C  .dit
M.,.oofl ro,hkhit clothed ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gf,B.-.y-ci. I..  i
Tk.4eaCCa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.tnased~~~~~~~~~..h
ItHtoarot ohcEc' tt          Ahho b             / )     /                  \9                                                   r        I        29         5    
ZctdgtfrEn^PsIg=: Ent = e  tRf- rnTE
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. high ..yo/o/iovrp 



