CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 899 IN
Proj ect Agreement
(Maharashtra Water Supply
and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MAHARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
Dated June 21, 1979
p*


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 899 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
MAHARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD (hereinafter called
MWSSB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies    equivalent    to  forty-eight million      dollars
($48,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that MWSSB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to Maha-
rashtra the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Maharashtra, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Maharashtra), Maharashtra has agreed to assist
MWSSB in the carrying out of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS under arrangements between Maharashtra and MWSSB, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be relent to MWSSB; and
WHEREAS MWSSB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MWSSB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist MWSSB in the engineering
design of the Project, MWSSB shall employ consulting engineers
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and MWSSB;
and
(b) In carrying out Parts I and II of the Project, MWSSB
shall employ suitably qualified and experienced contractors.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) MWSSB undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
Maha-ashtra against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by MWSSB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, MWSSB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by Maharashtra to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) MWSSB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) MWSSB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including


﻿-3-
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
ard to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) MWSSB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of MWSSB and any relevant records and documents
related thereto, as the Association's representatives shall
reasonably request.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between MWSSB and the
Association, MWSSB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by MWSSB and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) MWSSB shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) MWSSB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by MWSSB of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.07. MWSSB shall strengthen its operations for the
detection of transmission and distribution system losses and for
the repair of mains, in the Project Area, in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Association.


﻿Section 2.08. MWSSB shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire or to initiate action for Maharashtra to
acquire as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MWSSB
Section 3.01. MWSSB shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion -nd
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound financial,
administrative, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) MWSSB shall at all times operate and
maintain its machinery, equipment and other property, and make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering practices.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, MWSSB
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets required for the efficient operation of the
Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.03. MWSSB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. MWSSB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) MWSSB shall establish and maintain separate
accounts for its water supply and sewerage services in the Project
Area in accordance with commercial accounting practices.
(b) MWSSB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the


﻿-5-
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit -by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of MWSSB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. MWSSB shall prepare and furnish to the Associ-
ation for its review, by September 30, 1979, a program for the
establishment of financial management and information systems
for the operations thereof.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
MWSSB shall, before the commencement of each fiscal year, review
and adjust, if necessary, its tariffs for bulk water supply:
(a) in the Project Area, to ensure that operating revenues
are sufficient to: (i) meet MWSSB's operating expenses, and
straight-line depreciation of the fixed assets in operation, for
each of the fiscal years 1981 through 1983 and (ii) produce an
annual rate of return on the average value of MWSSB's net fixed
assets in operation in the Project Area of at least 4% in fiscal
years 1984 and 1985, 5% in fiscal year 1986 and 6% thereafter;
(b) outside the Project Area, for each fiscal year starting
with fiscal year 1981, to ensure that operating revenues are
sufficient to meet MWSSB's operating expenses and the greater of:
(i) debt service requirements or (ii) straight-line depreciation
of the fixed assets in operation.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
using, as the denominator, the value of the
net fixed assets in operation of MWSSB at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year in
question, and dividing the total by two and, as
the numerator, an amount equal to the net revenues
of MWSSB for that year;
(ii) the term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion of MWSSB" means the gross value of the fixed


﻿-6-
assets in operation, as revalued from time to time,
based on appropriate valuation methods approved by
the Association, less accumulated straight-line
depreciation;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference
between the (A) operating revenues and (B) operat-
ing expenses together with straight-line deprecia-
tion;
(iv) the term "operating revenues" means all revenues
from the sale of water;
(v) the term "operating expenses" means all costs of
operation of MWSSB including adequate maintenance
and a reasonable proportion of MWSSB's administra-
tive costs but excluding straight-line deprecia-
tion; and
(vi) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on such debt.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
MWSSB shall not incur any debt unless the net revenues of MWSSB
for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.3
times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt of MWSSB including the debt to be incurred.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by MWSSB
including debt assumed or guaranteed by MWSSB, except debt incur-
red in the ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms
on demand or less than one year after its incurrence;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any such debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment of such debt.
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred by MWSSB: (i) under a contract
or loan agreement, on the date the contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt is entered into; and (ii) under a guar-
antee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee shall have been entered into;


﻿-7-
(c) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues received by
MWSSB from water supply services, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes or payment in lieu of taxes,
if any, and administrative expenses, but before provision for
straight-line depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (c)(vi) of Section 4.04 hereof; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency, at the time such valuation
is made, is obtainable by MWSSB for the purpose of servicing
such debt.
Section 4.06. MWSSB shall: (i) endeavor to transfer to each
of the local authorities in the Project Area, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, the assets pertaining to the
water distribution and sewerage systems of each such local
authority, upon completion of that part of the Project related to
such assets, and (ii) recover from each such local authority the
amount required to service loans, or any other instrument pro-
viding for the debt, entered into for the purpose of financing
such assets and still outstanding.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of MWSSB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-8-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
MWSSB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For MWSSB:
Maharashtra Water Supply
and Sewerage Board
401 Main Building, Mantralaya
Bombay, 400 032 India


﻿IFI
-9 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
RESTIPULAR                         0112443
Bombay
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of MWSSB may be taken or executed by
the Chairman or the Member-Secretary or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and MWSSB shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
MAHARASHTRA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
By Is! N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, MWSSB shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. MWSSB shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 11 -
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference wiich will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of thls further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
1.7


﻿- 12 -
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance with
the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, MWSSB may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
MWSSB accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by MWSSB, respon-
sive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works other than those for Part I
(A) (1) of the Project and contracts for sewer pipes and fabri-
cated steel pipes may be let on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures of Mahara-
shtra satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for other equipment and materials costing less
than $50,000 and aggregating not more than $1,000,000, may be let
in accordance with the usual procurement procedures of Maharashtra
for such items satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
E.   Review ,f Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, and all contracts for civil
works:
(a) Before bids are invited, MWSSB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, MWSSB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association .shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially. differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, MWSSB shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
tit                                                             _   __   __    _


﻿- 14 -
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, MWSSB shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


