CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 899 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Maharashtra Water Supply
and Sewerage Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1979
I


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 899 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1979, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called    the Association.)
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(hereinafter called MWSSB), MWSSB has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Maharashtra, acting by its Governor,
(hereinafter called Maharashtra), Maharashtra has agreed, inter
alia, to assist MWSSB in the carrying out of the said Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
MWSSB and in the Maharashtra Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and Maharashtra;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
"A


﻿-2-
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and MWSSB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement;
(b) "Maharashtra Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Act" means the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage
Board Act, 1976 which established the MWSSB, as amended from time
to time;
(d) "Six Towns" means the towns of Thane, Bhiwandi, Kalvan,
Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Ambernath, collectively; and "Town"
means any of the Six Towns;
(e) "Project Area" means the area comprising the Six Towns
and about 1C4 villages to be serviced under the Project; and
(f) "MIDC" means the Maharashtra Industrial Development
Corporation established by the Maharashtra Industrial Development
Act, 1961.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty-eight million dollars ($48,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿1 II
V"-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1989, and ending Janu-
ary 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Maharashtra and MWSSB to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra
Agreement and the Project Agreement, respectively, all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Maharashtra and MWSSB to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.


﻿1 II
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Maharashtra, for relending to MWSSB under arrange-
ments to be entered into between Maharashtra and MWSSB pursuant to
Section 2.02 of the Maharashtra Agreement, in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to
the States of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen ral
Conditions th following additional events are specified pura-uant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation on the part of Maharashtra under the Maharashtra
Agreement;
(b) a default shall ha!e occurred in the performance of any
obligation on the part of MWSSB under the Project Agreement;
(c) Maharashtra or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of MWSSB or for the suspension of its operations;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that MWSSB or Maharashtra will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Maharashtra Agreement, respectively; and
(e) Maharashtra shall have amended, suspended, or abrogated
the Act in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of MWSSB to carry out the obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower, Maharashtra and MWSSB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (e) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of MWSSB have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Maharashtra Agreement
on behalf of Maharashtra have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action; and
(c) the consulting engineers for the engineering design of
the Project shall have been duly appointed pursuant to Section
2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section-5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or, ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, MWSSB
and is legally binding upon MWSSB in accordance with its terms;
and
(b) that the Maharashtra Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
Maharashtra, and is legally binding upon Maharashtra in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 20, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on a date twenty years


﻿1
-6-
after the date of this Agreement or on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Fin-
ance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cab1c address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿NII
-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to he financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                 30,600,000
materials:
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) manufactured                             100% of local
locally                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                                 50%
procured
(2) Civil works for water         12,000,000      75%
supply (excluding
distribution systems)
(3) Consultants' ser-              2,800,000     100%
vices and training
(4) Unallocated                    2,600.,000
TOTAL         48,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿-9-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures on consultants' services before that date but after April 1,
1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿-10-
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
I


﻿-11T-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project includes the augmentation of the existing piped
water systems and the provision of sewage collection, sewage
treatment and disposal facilities in the Six Towns as well as
augmentation of water supplies in about 22 villages and provision
of new piped water supplies in about 82 other villages in the
Project Area. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I:   Water Supply
A.   1.   Construction of a water treatment plant and a pumping
station with the initial capacity of about 200 million
liters per day at Temghar; and
2.   Renovation of the Badlapur water treatment plant and
pumping station, to increase its capacity from 34 to
about 50 million liters per day.
B.   Construction on the Ulhas River, near Shahad weir, of a
water intake and a pumping station with a capacity of
about 260 million liters per day and of a transmission main
(including the necessary bridges) to the Temghar water
treatment plant.
C.   Construction of (i) three transmission mains of about 3
kilometers in length each and (ii) of three service reser-
voirs with a total capacity of about 22 million liters, all
of the above to serve the towns of Thane and lhiwandi, and
the villages in the northern part of the Project Area.
D.   Improvement of the water distribution system i.n (i) the towns
of Thane and Bhiwandi and the villages in the northern part
of the Project Area, through the construction of twelve new
reservoirs wijth a total capacity of about 32 million liters,
of two boos er pumping stations and of associated main
networks a:id stand pipes; and (ii) the towns of Kalyan,
Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and the villages in the
southern part of the Project Area, through the construction
of thirteen reservoirs with a total capacity of about 36
million liters, of two booster pumping stations and of
associated mains and stand pipes.


﻿- 12 -
E.   Construction of (i) three booster pumping stations and of
thirty-four distribution reservoirs with a total capacity of
about 23 million liters and (ii) ten distribution reservoirs
with a total capacity of about 11 million liters, to serve
villages in the northern and southern parts of the Project
Area, respectively.
F.   Construction of (i) about 118 kilometers of transmission
mains (including the necessary bridges) and (ii) about 43
kilometers of transmission mains in the northern and southern
parts of the Project Area, respectively.
Part II: Sewerage
A.   Extension of the sewage collection and conveyance systems in
Thane and Bhiwandi, including about 48 km of sewers, five
sewage pumping stations and associated force mains, about
9,000 property connections, expansion of a primary sewage
treatment plant from a capacity of 18 to about 62 million
liters per day, and expansion of oxidation ponds from a
capacity of 5.5 to about 20 million liters per day.
B .  Provision of sewage collection and conveyance systems,
as well as primary sewage treatment plants, in Dombivli,
Ulhasnagar and Ambernath, including about 168 km of sewers,
ten sewage pumping stations and associated force mains, about
17,000 property connections (of which about 2,000 are in
Kalyan) and minor surface water drainage works in Dombivli.
Part III: Other Items
A.   Provision of workshops for the testing and repair of water
meters, provision of bulk water meters and provision of
vehicles and tools for the servicing of all such meters and
the testing and repair of mains.
B.   Provision of consultants services and training to MWSSB.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1983.


