―기


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 899 IN
MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower 'an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-eight million dollars
($48,000,000). on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia,
that Maharashtra agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set -forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date between the Association
and the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board (hereinafter
called MWSSB), MWSSB has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree ao lollows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) The Association and Maharashtra shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purpose of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Association and Maharashtra shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
4


﻿-2-
through their representatives with regard to the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by MWSSB of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
management, structure, administration, operations, resources and
expenditures of MWSSB and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Credit.
(b) Maharashtra shall take all action which shall be neces-
sary on its part to enable MWSSB to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for this purpose and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance of any such obligation
of MWSSB.
(c) Without any limitation on the generality of paragraph
(b) above, Maharashtra shall take all action necessary on its part
to ensure: (i) that by September 30, 1979, or such later date as
the Association may otherwise agree, MWSSB shall be staffed in
accordance with an organizational structure satisfactory to the
Association, and (ii) that thereafter no significant alteration in
the said organizational structure shall be made without prior
consultation with the Association.
Section 2.02. Maharashtra shall relend the proceeds of the
Credit made available by the Borrower, to MWSSB under appropriate
arrangements to be entered into between Maharashtra and MWSSB.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such arrangements
shall include the following terms:
(i) proceeds to be made available for a term of 25
years from the date of the first advance by Maha-
rashtra to MWSSB, including a grace period of
four years;
(ii) interest to be charged at the rate of 6-3/4%
per annum, payable semiannually or annually,
on amounts withdrawn and outstanding; and
(iii) proceeds to be made available promptly as required
to enable MWSSB to meet expenditures required
for the Project.
Section 2.03. Without in any way limiting the generality
of paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 hereof, Maharashtra shall,


﻿-3-
under suitable financing arrangements with MWSSB and the local
authorities in the Project Area, ensure the availability of
sufficient funds, including loans on the same terms and conditions
as those enumerated in Section 2.02 hereof, to enable MWSSB to
complete the Project.
Section 2.04. Maharashtra shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project and, if requested by the Association, shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 2.05. Maharashtra shall reduce industrial waste
discharges to acceptable levels in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.06. Maharashtra shall:
(a) cause local authorities in the Project Area to provide
grants or loans, on terms satisfactory to the Association, to
owners of property who may require financial help to meet (i) the
cost of converting the sewerage system thereof to forms suitable
for a connection of said property to the public sewer system and
(ii) the partial cost of such connection; and
(b) take all necessary action by September 30, 1980 to
ensure that said owners of property will connect their properties
to the public sewer system existing within 50 meters thereof, if
necessary availing themselves of the financial arrangements set
forth in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.07. For the purpose of enabling MWSSB to meet its
commitments in the Project Area, Maharashtra shall cause MIDC to
make available to MWSSB sufficient quantities of potable water,
estimated at about 100 million liters per day in 1984, and about
150 million liters per day in 1991, at rates to be set after
consultation with the Association.
Section 2.08. Maharashtra shall ensure that, in accordance
with a program satisfactory to the Association:
(a) except as the Association may otherwise agree, each of
the Six Towns shall establish and maintain a separate account for
**


﻿-4-
its water supply and sewerage service in accordance with commer-
cial accounting practices; and
(b) except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
village in the Project Area shall establish and maintain a
separate account for its water supply service.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
Maharashtra shall:
(a) cause each of the Six Towns to review and, if necessary,
adjust, before the commencement of each fiscal year, its respec-
tive tariffs for water supply and sewerage services to ensure
that: (i) for the fiscal years 1981 through 1983, operating
revenues are sufficient to meet operating expenses and debt
service requirements, as well as its annual contribution towards
the cost of the Project. In case this annual contribution cannot
be met from operating revenues, it may be met from other revenues
of the Town concerned; and (ii) starting with fiscal year 1984 and
thereafter, operating revenues are sufficient to meet the greater
of: (A) operating expenses and straight-line depreciation of the
fixed assets in operation, as well as an annual rate of return on
the average value of the net fixed assets in operationf of at least
3% in fiscal year 1984, 4% in fiscal year 1985, 5% in fiscal year
1986 and 6% thereafter; or (B) operating expenses and debt service
requirements;
(b) cause each village in the Project Area to review and,
if necessary, adjust its respective tariffs for water supply
services to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet,
for the fiscal year 1984 and for each succeeding fiscal year
thereafter, operating expenses and any debt service requirements;
and
(c). ensure that the local authorities in the Project Area
will not subsidize their water supply and sewerage services
beyond the cost of supplying water through standpipes calculated
at the domestic tariff.
(d) For the purposes of this Section, the rate of return
shall be calculated in the same manner as the rate of return
of MWSSB is calculated pursuant to paragraph (c) of Section
4.04 of the Project Agreement, and the meanings therein assigned
to the terms herein employed shall be the same.


﻿-5-
Section 2.10. Maharashtra shall cause local authorities
in the Project Area to:
(a) progressively improve their billing and collection
procedures for water supply and sewerage services in order to
reduce, by March 31, 1981, the level of their respective receiv-
ables to a percentage of billings to be agreed with the Associ-
ation;
(b) pay their bills in respect of bulk supplies of water
and other services rendered by MWSSB promptly upon receipt of such
services. If any bill shall remain unpaid for more than 90 days,
Maharashtra shall ensure the full payment thereof by the local
authority concerned, either by deduction of the unpaid amount from
grants due to such local authority or by other means available to
it; and
(c) pay to MWSSB the amount required to service loans or
any other instrument providing for the debt still outstanding that
MWSSB shall have incurred for the construction of assets in the
Project Area pertaining to the water distribution and sewerage
system of each local authority, upon transfer of such assets
pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.11. Maharashtra shall ensure that during Project
execution:
(a) MWSSB will not utilize surplus revenues resulting from
the provision of water supply services in the Project Area for
operational and developmental purposes outside said Project Area;
and
(b) the local authorities in the Project Area will not
utilize surplus revenues resulting from the provision of water
supply and sewerage services for purposes not related thereto.
Section 2.12. Maharashtra shall, before April 1, 1980 review,
in consultation with MWSSB and the local authorities, the tariff
structure for water supply and sewerage services in the Project
Area having regard to, inter alia, the consumer's ability to pay,
the economic cost of future expansion of said services and
the views of the Association.
Section 2.13. Maharashtra shall cause each of the Six Towns
to: (i) have its respective accounts and financial statements in


﻿- 6 -
-6
respect of its water supply and sewerage services (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of each local authority and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.14. Maharashtra shall, in respect of the water
supply and sewerage services of the loc'l authorities, cause such
local authorities to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Maharashtra hereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Maharashtra of this event.


﻿- 7 -
-7-
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specifi-d or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Maharashtra:
The Chief Secretary to the Government
of Maharashtra
Mantralaya, Bombay
India
Cable address:
RESTIS
Bombay


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other
person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and
Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By Is! N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


