Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
Repot No.13929-MAU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2166-MAU)
JANUARY 26, 1995
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00=UM  110*
UM 1.00 = US$0.009*
* At the time of the Implementation Completion Report mission
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
CFD            Caisse francaise de developpement
CRSP           Cellule de rehabilitation du secteur parapublic [Parastatal Sector Rehabilitation Agency]
EEC            European Economic Community
ECU            European Currency Unit
EIB            European Investment Bank
EPIC           Etablissement public industriel et commercial [Industry and trade-related public enterprise]
FADES          Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
IDA            International Development Association
ITU            International Telecommunications Union
KfW            Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
NASR           Nationale d'assurances et de reassurances [Insurance company]
OECF           Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
OPT            Office des postes et des telecommunications [Post and telecommunication company]
PANPA          Port autonome de Nouakchott - Port de I'amitie
PE             Public Enterprise
PESAP          Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
SEM            Socite d'economie mixte [Mixed-economy company]
SMAR           Societe mauritanienne d'assurances et de reassurances [Insurance company]
SMCP           Societe mauntanienne de commercialisation de poissons [Fisheries marketing board]
SMCPP          Societe mauritanienne de commercialisation de produits patroliers [Oil marketing board]
SN             Soci&e  nationale
SNIM           Societe nationale industrielle et miniere [Mining company]
SONELEC        Societe nationale d'eau et d'electricite [Water and electricity company]
SONIMEX        Societe nationale d'import-export [Import-export company]
UPU            Universal Postal Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface...
Evaluation Summary ........    .
PART  I -- PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  .............                                                    I
A. Background  .....             ......... ..1............... 
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ....................                                       2
C. Achievement of Objectives   . ......................                                          3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Programn   ..................                                     10
E. Program  Sustainability                                1..........................            I 
F. Bank Performance    ...........                    ..11..............                         1
G. Borrower Performance ...........                      ..         .............                12
H. Assessment of Outcome  .........................                                              13
I.  Future Operations  .   .....  .            .  .  .     .........  .      .  .  .  .  .  .     .  13
J.  Key Lessons Learned  ......  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
PART  II  -- STATISTICAL ANNEXES  .....  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  15
Table 1    Summary of Assessments .....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  15
Table 2      Related Bank Loans/Credits .....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  16
Table 3      Program  Timetable  .....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  17
Table 4      Credits Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..... .    17
Table 5      Key Indicators for Program  Implementation and Operation . . . . .                  17
Table 6      Studies Included in Program               ................                          18
Table 7  : Program  Costs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   18
Table 8  : Program  Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   18
Table 9  : Status of Legal Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    19
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     24
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      25
APPENDIXES .26
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire  ......  .                .  .  .     ........  .     .  .  .  .  .     .  26
B. Cofinancier Contribution to the ICR  .  . .....    . . . . . . . . . . . .                    32
C. Miscellaneous Appendixes . .   .34
D. Map  . ..  ..  ..  ..  .         .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  36
i
D.Map...36~~~~~~ .. 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Program (PESAP) in Mauritania, for which Credit 2166-MAU in the amount of SDR 30.70 million (US$
40 million equivalent) was approved on June 26, 1990 and made effective on August 29, 1990. This Credit
was further subject to four amcndments under which additional financing totaling SDR 7.38 million (US$
10 million equivalent) was approved. The four Amending Agreements were signed on November 20, 1990,
November 18, 1992, January 25, 1993 and April 26, 1994, respectively.
The Credit was closed on August 3, 1994, compared with the original closing date scheduled on
December 3 1, 1992. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 31,
1990; the second and third tranches were released on March 31, 1993 and March 31, 1994, respectively.
The Credit was filly disbursed by July 18, 1994. Cofinancing for the Project was provided by Germany,
Japan, the African Development Bank and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
The ICR was prepared by Jean-Michel N. Happi, Industry and Energy Division, Western Africa,
Africa Region, and Jean-Pierre Thibaut, Consultant. Comments have been received from Silvia B. Sagan',
Sector Operations Division Chief and Emmerich S. Schebeck, Project Adviser.  Borrower's and
cofinanciers' evaluation of the PESAP as well as their comments on the draft ICR were invited, but
comments were received only from Japan. These comments are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission of September 5 to
18, 1994. It is bascd on material in the Program file, including President's Report, Letters of Development
Policy, supcrvision reports, progress reviews on the occasion of tranche releases and related documents.
The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire.
l   .






PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Program under review (Credit 2166-MAU) for SDR 38.08 million, follows three preceding
operations w'ith public enterprise components in Mauntania since 1985: (a) a Structural Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 1812-MAU), (b) a Rehabilitation Loan for SNIM (Ln. 2643-MAU); and (c) a Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 1567-MAU). These projects supported, inter alia,
reforms aiming at  liberalizing the economy, improving the performance of public enterprises and
encouraging pnvate sector activity. The last credit focused on improvement of the legal and institutional
framework for the public enterprise sector, revision of incentives policies, rehabilitation of individual
enterpnses and introduction of other measures to rationalize and irprove the efficiency of the sector.
Statement and Evaluation of Pro2ram Obiectives
2.     The pnmary objective of the PESAP was to support the extension of the Governement's structural
adjustment program aimed at deepening the reforms in the PE sector. Actions under the Program included:
(i) modification of the legal and institutional framework with the objective of increasing public enterprise
(PE) autonomy and financial control, (ii) financial restructuring programs for key enterprises remaining in
the sector, particularly SNIM, the iron ore mining company, which is by far the largest enterprise in the
country; and (iii) a program of divestiture aimed at reducing the number of enterpnses in the public sector.
3.    The PESAP's conceptual foundation and formulation were sound. In order to promote achievement
of its overall objectives, the Program's action plan was sequenced into three series of reforms and activities,
whose implementation was monitored through the three tranches of the Credit. The objectives (i) and (ii)
above were clear, pertment and realistic.  But the action plan was too ambitious regarding certain
objectives under (ii), mainly those related to the State divestiture from mixed-economy companies created
in partnership with foreign governments. It did not adequately anticipate the political, diplomatic and legal
obstacles of such divestiture, given in particular the complex financial mechanisms by which these
enterpnses were created and which need to be tackled.
Implementation Experience and Results
4       The PESAP is rated "satisfactory". Its implementation benefited from the experience of the
preceding Public Enterpnse Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1567-MAU). It was also
facilitated by the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Institutional Development Project (Cr. 2167-
MAU), prepared in parallel with the PESAP and which provided support to the Government for carrying
out the Program   The Progran faced senous difficulties arising from uncertainties and delays in the
mobilization of its co-financing. Implementation start-up also suffered a one-year lag in 1990, mainly due
iii



to the Gulf War and misunderstandings bv the "Cellule de rehabilitation du secteur parapublic" (CRSP,
the implementing agency) of the need to ensure that funds in the Credit 1567-MAU were adequately
devoted to the implementation of the measures foreseen under the PESAP.
5.     The PESAP was further hampered by delays in releasing the second tranche of the Credit. This
tranche release was scheduled in 1991. At the time of the visit of the supervision mission in September
199 1, all of the specific conditions relative to the release had been met. However, because there was no
agreement with the Government on an acceptable macroeconomic framework, the release of the tranche
was not recommended until December 1992, after agreement was reached on the Fourth Year Policy
Framework Paper covenrng the penrod 1992-1995. Finally second tranche release occurred in March 1993.
As a result of all these factors, it was agreed to postpone the Credit closure date to December 1994, which
is two years after its onrginal schedule.
6.     However, from 1991 the Program gained a new impetus thanks to firm Government commitment to
reforms, good performance of the implementing agency and a forceful supervision by the Bank. This
further enabled the PESAP to substantially achieve most of its major goals. These achievements are likely
to be sustainable, although many issues remain pending and need to be strengthened for the PESAP to fully
attain its long term development objectives. The following provides a summary of these achievements and
pending issues.
7.    The PE legal and institutional framework has been fundamentally reformed within the context of
the PESAP. New laws were enacted which enable PE managers to enjoy effective autonomy in their day-
to-day operations, and lead Government to exercise its control through its representatives to the enterprises'
Boards. Financial control over PEs, however, remains weak, due in part to the weaknesses of the auditing
and accounting procedures, requirements and standards in Maunrtania. This issue is being tackled by the
Government and will also be addressed in the framework of the impending Financial and Private Sector
Development Project. (paragraphs 9-12)
8.     The financial restructuring of SNIM was outstanding and the company's long-term viability has
been restored. OPT (post and telecommunications), PANPA (port) and SONELEC (water, energy) have
also been successfully rehabilitated and should improve their performance under their on-going "contract-
plans". These contract-plans provide performance objectives and the necessary management actions for
their achievement by each enterprise, as well as the relevant Government's commitments. Within this
component of the PESAP, however, the restructuring of Air-Mauritania appears to be deficient. This
company remains in a critical situation, although it benefited from heavy technical assistance costing over
half a million dollars, not to mention the overall resources provided to the company in the context of its
financial restructuring.  In retrospect, it seems that its contract-plan was signed to meet the Credit
conditionalities rather than to provide an effective framework and incentive for its in-depth restructuring.
(paragraphs 13-24)
9.     The Government also intended to divest itself from all loss-making mixed-economy companies
(MECs). This objective was partially achieved. Government has reduced its majority shareholding from 20
MECs at the beginning of the PESAP to 10 MECs as of today. Out of these 10 MECs only four
enterprises are still experiencing losses, and two among these four enterprises will be divested soon. The
Government further intends to fully divest itself from all the remaining 17 MECs in which it still holds
either majority or minority participations. However, as stated above, there are some doubts on its ability to
promptly withdraw from most MECs in which foreign governments are stockholders. (paragraphs 29-30)
iv



10.    The Government has abolished the monopoly of SONIMEX on rice, tea and sugar importation.
This company was successfully restructured and there has been no shortage of these commodities nor has
there been price speculation since the liberalization. From this point of view, the demonopolization has
substantially attained its short-term objectives. But the conditions for this liberalization to yield its full
benefits (to consumers, private sector and the Government) have not yet been met. Two major risks are
pending: (i) the risk that the former State monopoly evolves into a de facto private monopoly or oligopoly,
if appropriate actions are not taken to promote effective competition, including ensuring fair access to
foreign exchange by all importers; and (ii) the risk of collapse of SONIMEX, if the company cannot
compete with the private sector on a fair basis. Moreover, it is also worth noting that the collapse of
SONIMEX could open room for uncontrolled price speculation which might have a severe impact on
domestic producers of rice. However, as part of measures toward the liberalization of the exchange
system, the Government has introduced a mechanism of auctions for import authorizations, which was
extended to all imports except petroleum and those by the fisheries sector and SNIM. This mechanism was
intended to reduce distortions in the incentive system and to promote better competition among importers,
including SONIMEX. Its functioning however needs to be further improved. The Financial and Private
Sector Development Project under preparation will help the Government tackling some of these issues, by
supporting further liberalization of the foreign exchange system and improving the regulatory and incentive
framework for effective competition and private sector development. (paragraphs 33-38)
11.    The Government has completed the settlement of its net balance of cross-debts with  public
enterprises. In view of avoiding recurrence of arrears, it has increased its budgetary allocations for the
Central Administration's consumption of water, electricity and telephone, which rose from around 1% of
the budget in 1989 to nearly 7% in 1994. Nowadays, each year allocations are determined from the billing
of the preceding twelve months' actual consumption and take into account expected tariff increases and the
net balance of arrears, if any. The Government also implemented a forceful and successful action plan to
reduce the Central Administration's consumption. The results of this action plan which is expected to yield
savings amounting UM 150 million should be seen as from the end of the current fiscal year. Hence,
PESAP's objective of increasing financial discipline in Government's relationships with public enterprises
has been substantially achieved and is likely to be sustainable.  However, two major issues  remain
unsolved : (i) the reimbursement of arrears and unpaid water and electricity consumption by customers
whose billing is guaranteed by Government (e.g. hospital, army); and (ii) the reimbursement to OPT of fees
it pays on behalf of Government to international  organizations of post and telecommunications.
(paragraphs 26-28)
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.    Given the need to consolidate the reforms achieved under the PESAP in view of their sustainability,
the PE Technical Assistance and Institutional Development Project (Cr. 2167-MAU) should continue to
provide relevant support to Government in the short-run. This Project will reinforce (a) improvement of
accounting and auditing practices and of financial control over PEs; (b) introduction of efficient cost
accounting systems within most PEs; (c) rehabilitation of Air-Mauritania; and (d) divestiture of
Government from the mixed-economy companies in which it is still shareholder.
13.    Some other issues which emerged in the course of the Program require long-term solutions which
could be addressed in future projects under preparation.  Such issues include (i) the weaknesses of
incentives for cffective private sector development after liberalization and privatization; (ii) inefficiencies in
the auction svstem for foreign cxchange allocation to importers; (iii) issues related to the gradual
liberalization of fisheries exports, particularly, the complete demonopolization of SMCP (the fish
v



marketing board) and the dismantling of its remaining exclusive export rights. and (iv) the complction of
the tax reform for the fish sector and the clearing of SMCP's role in foreign currency control and in the
collection of taxes from fisheries exports. Moreover, SNIM's outstanding pcrformance and management
capacity is a valuable example of public enterprise success whose expcriencc should be disseminated.
Relevant studies and experience sharing initiatives should be carricd out for that purpose.
14.    Four main lessons can be drawn from the PESAP implementation expcriencc. First, economic
liberalization does not necessarily translate into competitive markets and private sector development, but
may lead to private monopolies, if the liberalization proccss is not accompanied bv appropriate mcasures to
ensure fair competition between the entreprencurs involved - both public and private.
15.    Second, experience of the PESAP also stresses the need for a prefeasibilty study which should help
assess and design the most appropriate conditions to implement a divcstiture program. If such a study had
been carried out during the preparation of the PESAP, it would have clearly identificd the peculiarities of
certain mixed-economy companies and the constraints to be addressed in order to facilitate their divestiture
within a more realistic timeframe.
16.    Third, in rehabilitating public enterprises, financial restructuring is not an end by itself  If in the
meantime the enterprise management does not implemcnt forceful reforms to improvc the management
system and the enterprise productivity and to significantly rcducc its operating costs, the financial
restructuring would have little impact in the long run.
17.    Last but not least, within the framework of PE sector adjustmcnt operations, important rcsources
are sometimes allocated directly to enterprises to carry out their financial rcstructuring. In this context the
Bank should be more demanding on the quality of management and design explicit criteria to monitor
enterprise performance improvements. The signing of a "contract-plan" ;s not a sufficient criteria to ensure
that an enterprise will effectively implement the reforms rcquired to restore its profitability. It should be
reinforced by specific performance objectives whose satisfactory achievement should also be reflected
in the legal covenants or conditionalities, as appropriate
vi



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PART I -- PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    For most of the 1970s and early 1980s, Mauritania's economic development has been uneven and
marked bv major financial imbalances. Exogenous factors significantly contributed to the deterioration of
the countrv's economic and financial situation. Successive periods of drought led to rapid desertification,
declining farm production and deepened dependence on food aid. At the same time, iron ore exports which
accounted for over 60% of the country's export earnings shrank, heavily hit by a world steel market crisis.
The adverse impact of these factors was aggravated bv weak economic management. During this period,
the Government embarked on large public investment program financed almost entirely through external
borrowing. The program channeled resources towards low-yielding projects and led to a large external debt
and a heavy debt service burden. Domestic demand was sustained by an excessive growth of public
expenditures, which in turn contnbuted to large balance of payments deficits. Price distortions and
regulated market for agnrcultural and industnral products discouraged the development of private activities.
At the same time, public enterpnse (PE) performance was sharply deteriorating.  These enterprises
operated with high losses, mounting arrears, a rising debt burden and increasing illiquidity, and many relied
on monopolv privileges.  Their bad performance mainly owed to rapid changes in their extemal
environment, poor investment choices, weak management, lack of financial discipline, overstaffing and
inappropriate and ill-defined relations between the Government and the PEs.
2.     Against this background, the Govemment launched an adjustment program in 1985 aimed at laying
the foundation for sustained growth and restoring the balance of payments to a viable position. This
program also included Important reform initiatives specifically aimed at liberalizing the economy,
improving the performance of public enterprises and encouraging private sector activity. The program was
supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1812-MAU), a Rehabilitation Project for SNIM, the iron
ore mining company (Ln. 2643-MAU), an Industnal Development Project (Cr. 1572-MAU), and a Public
Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1567-MAU). Under this last Project,
reforms in the public enterprise sector were undertaken in five main areas, including improvement of the
legal and institutional framework for the public enterpnse sector; revision of incentives policies;
identification of enterprises to be restructured, pnrvatized or liquidated; rehabilitation of individual
enterprises; and introduction of other measures to rationalize and improve the efficiency of the sector.
3.     But continued financial desequilibria in the sector led the Government to formulate, in consultation
with IDA, the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP). This Program was embodied in the
Government's letter on Sector Development Policy. It was also part of the Bank's assistance strategy to
Mauntania. Implementation of measures under the PESAP both depended on adherence to the overall
macrofranework and was essential to meeting overall macroeconomic targets. Thus, maintenance of
appropnate macroeconomic policies, consistent with the directives outlined in the Policy Framework Paper,
was a condition of Credit tranche release.
I



B.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
4      The primary objective of the PESAP was to extend and deepen Government's structural adjustment
reforms in the PE sector. It specifically aimed at
(i)    fundamentally modifying the legal and institutional framework governing the sector so that
PE pnrvatization would be facilitated, more autonomy would be provided to enterprises and
financial control would be improved;
(ii)   financially restructuring key enterprises, including SNIM and Air-Mauritania; and
(iii)   substantially reducing the role of the State and facilitating increased private sector
participation by privatizing and liquidating public enterprises and elininating State
monopolies.
5.     The objectives under (i) and (ii) above were relevant, clearly stated, defined by realistic
measures, and, as appropriate, by quantitative norms making it possible to track their implementation
progress. On the other hand, certain objectives under (iii), relating to divestiture were unrealistic. In
particular, the Prograrn did not take sufficiently into account the length of time needed to settle all the
financial, legal and diplomatic issues involved in Government withdrawal from certain mixed-economy
companies (MECs) in which foreign Governments were also shareholders. A prefeasibility study of
the divestiture process, carried out prior to the PESAP action plan, would have made it possible to
identify more appropriate implementation conditions.
6.    Implementation of the PESAP  was facilitated by the Public Enterprise Institutional
Development and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2167-MAU), prepared in parallel with the
adjustment operation, and which provided additional support to Government to carry out the reforms
under the Program. The linking of these two credits (2166 and 2167) proved effective, even though as
explained below it was a very risky undertaking. It encouraged the Government, on the one hand, to
carry out institutional and structural reforms in the parastatal sector, and on the other, to provide
incentives for the enterprises to carry out the restructuring measures specified in the PESAP, in
particular those whose implementation was a condition of release of the Credit 2166 tranches.
However, this involved the risk that certain measures would be adopted in order to formally fulfill the
conditions of release, while the actual objectives of the reform and their sustainable consolidation were
relegated to second place. In retrospect, this risk was limited to only one enterprise. Moreover, the
linking of the two credits made it difficult to perform an ex-post evaluation of the PESAP alone. This
was because certain objectives were defined within the PESAP framework while the resources for their
implementation came under the Credit 2167-MAU. The present evaluation of the PESAP consequently
takes into account its complementarity and interaction with the Technical Assistance Project.
7.     Four other major risks identified at the start of the Program were also likely to adversely affect
implementation of the PESAP. First of all, the risk that the Government could find it politically
unsustainable to continue the process of liberalization of the economy and engage in privatization and
liquidation activities. Second, the risk that the adjustment program would be too restrictive, basically
from the standpoint of Government expenditures, given the additional outlays that would have to be
met following repatriation of groups returning from Senegal. Third, the risk that implementation of
the PESAP (and the Technical Assistance Project) might prove too demanding for the limited
capabilities of the Mauritanian administration in that domain. Lastly, there were major uncertainties
2



concerning the variations in the dollar rate of exchange and in the price of iron, and their impact on the
SNIM restructuring project. However, upon completion of implementation of the PESAP, it appears
that (i) the Government's firm commitment and political will, (ii) the efforts made by the CRSP and the
technical support it received, and (iii) SNIM's capacity for adaptation and its performance record were
all factors which, each in its own field, made it possible to overcome those risks and successfully
implement the program.
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF MAJOR OBJECTIVES
8.     As discussed below, the objectives of the PESAP have been substantially achieved. Given the
nature of the program, no provision was made for calculating internal rate of return or discounted net
value. As designed, the Program constituted a pertinent approach for achieving the desired objectives.
(i)    Reform of the legal and institutional framework
9.     The legal and institutional framework for the parastatal sector was thoroughly overhauled.
New legislation was enacted concerning the public enterprises, providing for their classification by
status (Societe nationale, Societe d'economie mixte, or Etablissement public industriel et commercial),
setting down their rules of operation, and identifying their respective supervisory bodies. All public
enterprises have been reclassified under these three categories.  Under the new legislation, public
enterprises are granted full autonomy in their day-to-day management, and Government intervention is
strictly limited to major strategic decisions. These companies no longer require prior authorization
from their supervisory ministries except with respect to the composition of their procurement
committees, adoption of their investment programs, and signature of a medium-term plan or contract-
plan. Government oversight will henceforth be exercised via their boards of directors. It was noted
that these new provisions are being effectively implemented by the enterprises and their supervisory
ministries, whose commitment to both the spirit and the letter of this approach was evident. However,
a very few cases were noted where the operation of the boards of directors was in need of
improvement, specifically from the standpoint of the effective exercise of their prerogatives in terms of
orientation and supervision of the enterprise concerned.
10.    As part of the actions to improve management of the enterprises and to make their executive
bodies (board of directors, general manager) more accountable, it was planned that the enterprises
would put in place appropriate accounting systems and budgetary procedures. Such methods would
enable them to produce reliable year-end financial statements and to formulate accurate financial
projections for the next fiscal year. As of this date, substantial efforts have been in the area of general
accounting, and most of the enterprises are now producing their annual financial statements by the
deadline specified by law (end March), whereas before the PESAP these statements were usually
submitted on average 9-1 1 months late.
11.    But much progress still needs to be made, since most enterprises do not yet have (i) efficient
cost accounting systems enabling them to optimize the quality of their management decisions in many
areas (e.g. pricing tariff policies), or (ii) pertinent methods of financial projection, including medium-
term financing plans. This is particularly regrettable in light of the fact that provision is often made in
contract-plans for (a) financial compensation payable by the State for any public service obligations the
enterprise is required to discharge, or (b) capital increases in the case of investment, while the amounts
actually required are not determined with sufficient accuracy in the tables of incomes and expenditures.
3



However, these issues are being dealt with in the context of the on-going Public Enterprise Institutional
Development and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2167-MAU).
12.    Certain reservations should also be expressed regarding the reliability and certification of
certain financial statements. Enterprise accounts have often been certified without reservation by local
external auditors [commissaires aux comptes], while international auditing firms (assigned to audit
those same enterprises) have contested them and formulated numerous recommendations for their
correction.  However, it should be noted that this applies primarily to mixed-economy companies
(MECs) and that other major PEs (SONELEC, OPT) have made consistent progress in this area since
the start of the PESAP. Within this new framework for public enterprise supervision, the external
auditors have a particularly important role to play. As of this date, the conditions for access to this
profession and the procedures for monitoring the activities of its members are not sufficiently rigorous
to guarantee the production of accounting data sufficiently reliable to meet international standards.
This issue is being tackled by the Government and will also be addressed in the framework of the
impending Financial and Private Sector Development Project.
(ii)    Financial restructuring and rehabilitation of the major public enterprises
13.    The second set of PESAP objectives contained three components:
-  the financial restructuring of SNIM  this has had highly satisfactory results;
-  the restructuring of Air-Mauritania  partial results have been obtained; and
- the continued implementation of the rehabilitation plans for OPT, SONELEC and PANPA, to
culminate in contract-plans: substantial results have been achieved.
14.    SNIM.  The objectives of the PESAP concerning SNIM  were to rehabilitate its financial
situation, providing it with the means to: (i) maintain its production level at about 10 to 1I million
tons of iron ore a year; (ii) improve its international competitiveness; and (iii) lay the foundations for
its long-term  viability.  These objectives were achieved through successful implementation of the
following measures:
(a)    financial restructuring of the company, which helped generate a level of cash reserves enough
to: (i) ensure adequate level of mining operations with reasonable levels of working capital;
(ii) enable SNIM to meet its debt service obligations; and (iii) ensure that it reasonably
contributes to its investment, including the M'haoudat project;
(b)    sustained improvement in productivity, inter alia through the reduction of its costs by close to
US$6.5 million in two years, and launching of an internal re-engineering project;
(c)    opening of the M'Haoudat iron ore deposit to replace the depleting Kedia resources, involving
a US$157 million investment cofinanced by several donors; and
(d)    substantial improvement of its cash management, enabling the company to tackle the risks
associated with changes in exchange rates, iron prices and interest rates.
15.    The positive effects of this restructuring are summarized in Table Al: Trends in SNIM's
Performance, in Appendixes. The figures reflect the synergy between PESAP's financial contribution
and the technical and management efforts made by SNIM, as well as the rigorousness and innovative
4



approaches demonstrated by the company in carrying out its reforms.  SNIM  has fully met the
performance targets of the PESAP, particularly those relating to output, productivity, and profitability
and indebtedness thresholds, as set out in the medium- and long-term financial projections. These
criteria proved particularly useful for the monitoring of its financial restructuring operations.
16.    Air-Mauritania.  The PESAP's objective regarding Air-Mauritania was to promote its
financial restructuring, which in turn would help provide the company with the necessary means to
embark on a process of operational recovery. The structural and cyclical causes of the enterprise's
difficulties were assessed in a strategic and management audit carried out in 1990. This audit stressed
the need to rapidly supplement the financial restructuring activities with the design and implementation
of a global recovery plan. A contract-plan was to be signed by the company and the Government to
finalize this procedure and provide a framework of reference for their mutual obligations.
17.    Under the PESAP, the company's financial restructuring was gradually implemented through
the following measures: (i) recapitalization; (ii) rescheduling of the FOKKER debt; (iii) passing on of
the full share of the debt canceled by the Paris Club; (iv) use of the proceeds of the sale of the
presidential aircraft; and (v) clearance of Government arrears in the area of public service subsidies
and billing for transportation services. These measures have helped to redress the company's balance
sheet structure.
18.    However, and despite the substantial technical assistance received by Air-Mauritania under the
Technical Assistance Project (2167-MAU), the company fell heavily behind schedule in implementing
the strategic recovery plan that it was to have carried out at the same time in the commnercial, technical
and organizational areas. This delay resulted in the persistence of major operating deficits. The
consequences could have been catastrophic, perhaps even cancelling out the effects of the financial
restructuring, had an emergency plan not been put into effect at the beginning of 1994.  This
emergency plan comprised a number of measures such as higher fares, elimination of loss-producing
international routes, reduced service to unprofitable domestic destinations, and strict control over
certain fixed costs. These measures were intended to reduce operating losses by 47% to UM 107
million in 1994.
19.    As of this date, doubts persist concerning the scale of Air-Mauritania's recovery, given the
severity of its structural problems and the delays in implementation of its overall recovery plan. In
such a context, the contract-plan which was signed seems to be regarded more as a formal document,
meeting one of the conditions of release of the IDA credit, than as a framework of reference against
which to measure the company's recovery efforts and effective improvements in its performance data.
As liquidation of the company is not an option in Mauritania which has little transport infrastrucrure
alternatives, a forceful restructuring of Air-Mauritania's operations need to be implemented. This will
foremost require a strong commitment to this restructuring by both the Government and the enterprise
management. In that case, the Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2167-MAU) could provide resources
to support the restructuring.
20.    OPT. The PESAP provided for major changes within the institutional framework of the OPT,
rehabilitation of its accounting and financial operations, improvement of its information system, and
adoption of a contract-plan with the Government. These objectives have been substantially achieved.
OPT has significantly improved the quality of its service and its results. Its profits rose from UM 286
million in 1990 to UM 625 million in 1993. A draft contract-plan with the Government was prepared
on the basis of OPT's strategic plan, defining its performance targets and the necessary management
5



actions necessary to their achievement, as well as the Government's commitments. This contract-plan
has been signed by an Interministerial Committee and accepted by IDA, but it is still awaiting
Parliamentary approval.
21.    Until such time as this contract-plan takes effect, it is particularly important that the spirit in
which it was conceived and finalized be respected, especially concerning such aspects as financial
arrangements (investment and self-financing) and management autonomy, to guard against any changes
that could distort the equilibria and compromise OPT's future performance. A study was also planned
to examine the possible alternatives of splitting up the posts, telecommunications, postal checking
accounts, and savings bank services, creating subsidiaries to handle the different functions, or
maintaining them in their present situation. This would be carried out within the framework of the
study on OPT's long-term strategy.
22.    SONELEC. Upon the expiry of its first performance contract in 1991, SONELEC signed its
second three-year performance contract under the PESAP. Within the framework of these contracts,
the enterprise has achieved and often exceeded its performance targets, whether at the technical,
commercial or financial level. It also received: (i) a large-scale recapitalization by the State (UM 900
million); (ii) an authorization to adjust its rates to keep pace with production cost trends; and (iii)
payment by the Government of billing arrears in respect of consumption by the various Government
departments. Its income statement reflected its recovery, rising from a loss of UM 380 million in 1989
to a profit of UM 225 million in 1993, and a substantial improvement is forecast for 1994.
23.    However, SONELEC's recovery is still weak.  Since it cannot expect to see its rates
systematically reflect all the increases it experiences in the cost of its inputs, SONELEC will need to
intensify its cost reduction, along the lines of its reaction to the devaluation of the ouguiya in 1992.
The considerable reduction in its costs and the improvement in its productivity enabled it to achieve
substantial savings (over UM 160 million in 1993) and to concurrently restrict its tariff increases.
Nevertheless, these efforts need to be intensified.  This is particularly important in view  of
SONELEC's investment projects (extension of electricity and water networks), for which it will have
substantial self-financing needs. It is also a matter of urgency that it finalize the introduction of its
cost accounting system to enable accurate determination of its costs by product (water, high- and
medium-voltage electricity) and by cost center. These reforms are essential to the preparation of a
pertinent pricing policy, which constitutes an essential element in the development of Mauritania's
private sector, particularly with respect to the expansion of energy-intensive processing activities in the
fisheries sector.  In the short run, the Technical Assistance Project (Cr.2167-MAU) will support
SONELEC in setting up reliable cost accounting and forecasting procedures.  The company will
continue its cost reduction efforts under its third performance contract which will be signed in 1995
24.    PANPA. The extent of PANPA's rehabilitation under the PESAP has been substantial. All
the relevant measures were implemented, including privatization of stevedoring operations, staff
cutbacks of over 50%, and signature of an infrastructure lease agreement between the Government and
PANPA. The port's financial situation improved considerably, rising from a net loss of UM  150
million in 1989 to a profit of over UM 50 million in 1993, even after annual rental payments of UM
100 million to the Government. The relative drops in imports and in the volume of port activities
following the recent devaluation of the UM and the CFA franc were reflected in PANPA's turnover,
but so far without causing any real reduction in its profitability. In order to strengthen PANPA's long-
term viability, a competitive services and pricing strategy should be prepared vis-a-vis competitor ports
6



(e.g. Dakar and Abidjan, serving Mali). A program to retrench supervisory personnel is now under
way and should help to make the port's operations more competitive.
(iii) Sector rationalization: financial discipline, divestiture and demonopolization
25.   This component of the PESAP focussed on three main objectives. The first concerned the
settlement of Government's arrears and the establishment of financial discipline in its relations with
PEs.  The second concerned the Government's withdrawal from  unprofitable mixed-economy
companies (MECs). The third aimed at abolishing State monopoly on imports of rice, sugar and tea,
and at liberalizing the insurance sector. These objectives have to a large extent been achieved, but they
need to be consolidated.
26.   Payment of Government arrears and measures to avoid recurrence. At the start of the
PESAP (July 1990), the net balance of cross-debts between the public enterprises and the Government
stood at UM 689 million of arrears owed by the Government. At the end of the program, all of this
amount had been paid, 58% having been settled using counterpart funds under the PESAP credit, the
balance being covered out of other sources of financing, including debt-equity swaps with private
investors within the framework of privatization of SMCPP (Societe de commercialisation des produits
petroliers). Following a partial new build-up of arrears in 1992, the Government again adopted a
financing plan designed to lead to their payment in full by 1995. To avoid all recurrence of arrears,
the Government significantly increased the annual consumption allocations appearing in its budget.
This systematic inclusion of budgetary provisions covering actual consumption by the Government
reflects its commitment to the sustainable rehabilitation of its financial relations with the public
enterprises. Also, with the support of the national companies concerned (OPT, SONELEC) it
introduced a forceful system to both monitor and curb Government consumption of the public services,
which is expected to yield annual savings in excess of UM150.
27.   Budgetary allocations for water and electricity payments rose from UM 80 million in 1990 to
UM 700 million in 1994. Each year from now on, these will be calculated on the basis of the previous
year's consumption, adjusted to take account of changes in consumption levels, planned tariff
increases, and the net balance of arrears. Nevertheless, SONELEC is still at considerable risk of a
recurrence of Government arrears in respect of Government-backed customers.  The levels of
consumption by customers with this type of guarantee are equivalent to those of the Goverrunent
departments.  Measures to make such customers accountable and to include relevant budgetary
allocations for their consumption should be implemented without delay to avoid any new build-up of
arrears owed by them.  Such measures are particularly essential since those customers include
administrative public establishments whose overall budgetary appropriations should allow them to pay
for their own water and energy consumption.
28.   Budgetary allocations for telephone consumption rose from UM 60 million in 1990 to UM 520
million in 1994. This was accompanied by a program to rationalize and restrict service throughout the
entire Government telephone network, which produced highly satisfactory results. Nevertheless, one
point still needs to be clarified, namely that of Mauritania's subscriptions to international post and
telecommunications organizations, paid by OPT on the Government's behalf but not yet reimbursed by
the Government.
29.   Divestiture. One of the Government's objectives under the PESAP was to divest itself from
all nonviable MECs. This objective is in process of being achieved. As of this date, the Government
7



is the majority shareholder in only 10 MECs; this is half the number at the start of the PESAP. Only
4 of those 10 recorded losses in 1993, and Government withdrawal from 2 (ALMAP, SAMIA) of those
4 is now being negotiated with potential investors. The Government still holds minority participations
in 7 other MECs but intends to fully divest itself from all MECs. (See Table A2: Size of the PE
Sector and Table A3: Performance of Enterprises remaining in the Public Sector, in Appendixes)
30.    The modalities for Government divestiture were individually tailored to each enterprise after it
had been audited or evaluated. This approach appears justified, given the financial situation of the
enterprises concerned, which were more often liquidated than privatized. On the other hand, PESAP's
action plan covering the divestiture of the (8) MECs with foreign government shareholders was
unrealistic. It did not take account of the diplomatic, legal and financial difficulties involved in this
withdrawal, overlooking in particular the complexity of the financial arrangements under which the
enterprises were originally set up.
31.    The Government has started to privatize the Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation de
Poissons (SMCP), the fish marketing board. Having reduced its holdings by half, it now owns 50% of
the capital, and has pledged to reduce this holding to 35% in the near future. The privatization option
selected calls for the "equitable and broadest possible" equity participation by producers. The private
sector is represented by the two largest national fishery federations (FIAP and FIA Peche), each with a
20% holding, and by the banks, with 10%. This partial privatization was followed by reorganization
of the company and implementation of vigorous cost-reducing measures. These measures, combined
with a favorable business climate characterized by recovering demand and rising world prices,
contributed to a significant improvement in SMCP's financial results, with prospects for a close to
15% increase in its profits in the first year. This should pave the way either for a dividend distribution
to shareholders or, preferably, for a reduction in its marketing commission rates.
32.    SMCP still holds exclusive export rights for species subject to the mandatory landing
requirement (essentially cephalopods), which represent some 80% of its turnover, and for which Japan
is the principal market.  The other segments of fishery activities have been liberalized.  The
Government plans to maintain SMCP's monopoly for an initial period of five years, even after its
transfer to private-sector majority ownership. This measure is designed to serve as a transition stage
prior to full liberalization of the sector. It should facilitate reorganization of the private operators
along lines conducive to improvement of their international competitiveness. In addition, maintenance
of the monopoly should enable the Government to continue to exercise control over those exports,
which are the country's principal source of foreign exchange and which generate over one quarter of
its budget resources. However, with a view to total liberalization of the sector, the Government will
need to clarify the function presently performed by SMCP as exchange control authority and as a
reliable collection agency for the tax revenues deriving from those exports. This function, which
hitherto also justified SMCP's monopoly status, should be transferred, if necessary, to other competent
administrative departments.
33.    Liberalization of rice, sugar and tea imports (SONIMEX).  Provisions were made in the
PESAP for the financial recovery of SONIMEX and the gradual demonopolization of its principal
import products (rice, sugar, tea). The objectives of this component were to: (i) liberalize imports of
those products; (ii) reduce the deficit of the enterprise and the pressure of that deficit on the
Government budget; and (iii) guarantee the supply of the three commodities under competitive
conditions as to quality and price. Implementation of this strategy could not be conceived without the
8



concurrent implementation of import surveillance and control measures (collection of customs taxes
and duty) and of measures to ensure equal access to foreign exchange for all operators.
34.    At first glance, the results obtained reflect the objectives set. Thanks to rigorous management
efforts and a favorable (downward) trend in the purchase price of rice, SONIMEX recovered and
obtained a substantial profit in 1992. As of today, all of the 3 products have been demonopolized with
no shortage of supply or speculative changes in selling prices.
35.    However, the sector's present. situation and its long-term risks should be approached with some
caution, primarily because the elimination of SONIMEX' defacto monopoly has in practice resulted in
a de facto oligopoly (2 or 3 principal importers), and no true competitive environment has been
established. A statistical analysis of import applications and customs declarations clearly indicates that
not all customs duties are actually being paid by these new private operators. These importers operate
with lower costs than SONIMEX which, by virtue of its legal status, meets all its customs obligations
and thus become less competitive.
36.    Moreover, the disparity (in foreign exchange availability and supplier credit terms) between the
private importers and SONIMEX is highly detrimental to SONIMEX, which has made virtually no
major purchases since 1993. Thus SONIMEX could become nonviable without a significant volume of
sales to enable it to cover its core costs. It would then be ousted from the sector, and the reference
point it represents for selling prices (respecting reasonable gross margin rates) would disappear,
possibly resulting in upward price drifts on a market dominated by a cartel of private importers.
37.    Lastly, it should be stressed that should this process come about, it would severely impact on
the development of local rice production activities. SONIMEX used to buy locally-produced rice at
prices well above world market prices, thus providing indirect subsidies to domestic producers on
behalf of Government. This rice is uncompetitive as compared to imports and is unlikely to be
purchased by private importers, unless it is sold well below its production costs.
38.    From the above reasons, it therefore appears that efficient supplementary mechanisms need to
be designed and put in place (including, possibly, the option of improving SONIMEX' performance as
an operator) if the objectives underlying any process of economic liberalization are to be achieved on a
sustainable basis and with equity for all (Government and consumers). The Government should also
redesign its policy in support of domestic rice activities, since SONIMEX's related role as marketing
board is most likely to be discontinued.
39.    Demonopolization of the insurance sector. The insurance sector was liberalized as part of
the PESAP reforms. Soci&g mauritanienne d'assurance et de reassurance (SMAR), which fornerly
held the insurance monopoly, is in process of judicial liquidation. A new insurance company (NASR)
was established, taking over SMAR's now regularized portfolio. The Government proposes to sell
66% of NASR's equity to the private sector. Various private investors, including foreign insurance
companies, have expressed interest in becoming involved in this sector in Mauritania, either through an
equity participation in NASR or by establishing new  companies.  It should be stressed that
demonopolization of the insurance sector in reality represents no more than a first essential step
towards the development of insurance activities in Mauritania. Such development will not in fact be
possible until the structural causes of SMAR's failure have effectively disappeared. The Government
is setting up a new regulatory framework, including appropriate legal and institutional arrangements, a
9



new insurance code and investment incentives, to tackle these issues and render the insurance sector
more attractive for private investors.
(iv) Social measures within the PESAP framework
40.    The reform of the parastatal sector resulted in the elimination of 1,632 jobs, over 16% of the
total number of jobs in the sector in 1990. This effect, as well as its induced financial costs, were
identified before the start of the program. The Government has paid a total of UM 690 million in
compensation to the persons thus affected. In addition, it has set up a special unit within the Ministry
of Planning, to strengthen its capacity to solve the social problems arising out of the structural
adjustment process.
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
41.   Implementation of the PESAP was affected by several factors. The first, and most serious, of
these was the Gulf War. The ensuing political and social climate was not very propitious to the conduct
of reforms, and the conflict also caused the Government to make certain shifts in its priorities. The
situation also led to delays in visits by supervision missions and foreign consultant assignments.
42.    The PESAP was also affected by difficulties in mobilizing all of the cofinancing as originally
scheduled. Japan's contribution was not released until August 1993, and then only in part. This delay
was due to the Japanese Government's disagreement in principle with the Trinidad treatment for the
rescheduling and writing-off of public debt, concerning which (and its application to Mauritania)
discussions were being held with the Paris Club.  The Kuwait Fund financing and Arab fund
contributions were held up because of Mauritania's perceived political sympathy for Iraq during the
Gulf War. Neither the contribution from the African Development Bank nor the increase in the
German loan could fully make up for this lack of scheduled funding.
43.   The Program implementation was further hampered by delays in releasing the second tranche of the
Credit. This tranche release was scheduled in 1991. At the time of the visit of the supervision mission in
September 1991, all the specific conditions relative to the release had been met. However, because there
was no agreement with the Government on an acceptable macroeconomic framework, the release was not
recommended until December 1992, after agreement was reached on the Fourth Year Policy Framework
Paper covenrng the penod 1992-1995. Finally the second tranche release occurred in March 1993.
44.   In addition to the problems created by the lack of adequate cofinancing, SNIM's action plan
was jeopardized by: (i) the sharp drop in iron prices, of over 13% in 1993, or eight points below the
levels of the initial simulations; and (ii) a significant decline in sales, which fell by 24% between 1991
and 1992 and by 10% between 1992 and 1993. The plan was saved thanks to the drastic compression
by SNIM of its operating costs and the opening up of the M'Haoudat mines earlier than planned.
45.    The devaluation of the ouguiya adversely affected the operating conditions and profitability of
certain enterprises (SONELEC and Air-Mauritania, in particular).  On the other hand, it proved
beneficial for SNIM and SMCP, which are essentially exporting companies. Where Air-Mauritania
was concerned, the constant changes in its leadership (four Managing Directors in rapid succession in
four years) was an additional factor in slowing down implementation of its recovery plan.
10



46.    Lastly, as a result of the various elections (presidential and legislative) held in Mauritania from
1990 onwards, a number of decisions and the launching of certain of the PESAP's activities fell behind
schedule.
E.    PROGRAM. SUSTAINABILITY
47.    Overall, the ex-post evaluation of PESAP concludes that the reforms carried out are
sustainable, although some of them still require consolidation. Where the institutional framework is
concerned, for instance, public enterprises now enjoy true autonomy in their day-to-day management,
Government oversight being exercised via their boards of directors.  However, the financial
supervision mechanisms (external auditing) need to be strengthened, more from the standpoint of their
practical operation than from that of the relevant legislation. As indicated above, this issue is being
tackled by Government through the reform of the profession of external auditors.
48.    Where restructuring and rehabilitation of the major public enterprises is concerned, SNIM has
now regained its medium- and long-term viability. The financial situation of OPT, PANPA and
SONELEC has improved and should be consolidated within the framework of their performance
contracts. The action plans now in progress under those performance contracts serve to guarantee
sustainable success. Only Air-Mauritania's situation remains particularly worrisome, despite the fact
that this company also has a contract-plan.
49.   Improvements in the financial relations between the Government and the public enterprises are
well under way on a sustainable footing. This is so despite the problems linked to Government-backed
customers (SONELEC) and the question of the subscriptions to ITU and UPU (OPIT). The systematic
inclusion of budgetary allocations to cover the Government's actual water, electricity and telephone
consumption, and the vigorous efforts to curb such consumption, should prevent any recurrence of
Government arrears vis-a-vis those utilities.
50.    Some reservations are in order concerning the possibility of rapid Government withdrawal
from the MECs established in partnership with foreign governments, given the time-consuming
diplomatic negotiations in such withdrawal. Imports of commodities (rice, sugar, tea) have been
liberalized. But the full impact of this liberalization will not be felt until the conditions for effective
competition have been established, specifically the provision of competitive access to foreign exchange
and the payment by all importers of relevant customs duties and taxes. The recent signature of a
contract with a surveillance company to handle import inspections and control will contribute to the
installation of these equitable conditions of competition among importers and vis-a-vis the Government.
51.   Lastly, the Government's clear commitment to the program of reforms and the effective
involvement of most of the public enterprises managers may be seen as signs that sustainable recovery
is well under way in Mauritania's parastatal sector.  Over the short run, the continuation of the
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2167) will provide support for the consolidation of this recovery.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
52.    The PESAP was identified within the framework of the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1567-MAU). It represented an extension and expansion of that Project, a fact that
11



facilitated its preparation. Implementation of the Program took four years, from credit effectiveness in
August 1990 to closure in August 1994, overrunning the original schedule by one year and a half. The
two extensions of closing date granted by the Bank were most helpful in achieving PESAP's major
objectives. During that period there were 5 supervision missions, comprising the task manager, Bank
experts and consultants specialized in the different areas covered by the PESAP (e.g. public enterprise
reform, performance contract management, air transportation, mining, telecommunications, energy).
Supervision slowed down somewhat during the first year of program implementation, owing partly to
the Gulf War.  Subsequently, however, the Bank intensified supervision efforts and imposed a
consistently high level of requirements on the Government and CRSP, with respect not only to actual
implementation of the reforms but also to the fulfillment of conditionalities and observance of
deadlines. Staff continuity and the frequent presence of Bank missions throughout most of the program
were determinant factors in ensuring compliance with those requirements.
53.   The various stages of PESAP implementation, and in particular most of the supervision and
disbursement missions, were coordinated with the other donors, regularly with the OECF (Japan), and
less frequently with the AfDB, FADES and KfW (Germany). In particular, the mobilization of
financing for SNIM, the execution of its financial restructuring and the recovery of its operations were
the result of far-reaching and fruitful coordination among the Government, SNIM, bilateral donors
(Saudi Arabia, Spain, France, Japan) and multilaterals (AfDB, EIB, EEC, Arab Fund), with World
Bank support and coordination.
54.    Looking back, it is clear that one of the most important aspects of the PESAP did not receive
adequate analysis during program preparation and implementation, namely the conditions for effective
private sector development following liberalization, demonopolization and privatization. From this
standpoint, the development objectives targeted by the program will not be fully achieved until the
persistent constraints affecting private sector development (e.g., poor banking system, inefficient
business environment, inappropriate foreign exchange allocations) have been removed, inter alia
through the establishment of conditions for true competition. As indicated above, these issues will be
tackled by the Financial and Private Sector Development Project under preparation.
55.   In conclusion, the Bank's performance may be judged satisfactory at the levels of program
identification, preparation and appraisal, and highly satisfactory from the point of view of supervision.
This is reflected in the performance rating (average of 1) appearing consistently in the Form 590s of
the last 2 years.
G.  BORROWER PERFOMANCE
56.    Borrower performance was good. The Government demonstrated a clear commitment to the
PESAP reforms. It honored its commitments and successfully integrated the PESAP into the more
general framework of its macroeconomic consolidation and economic recovery program. By way of
illustration, counterpart funds (which are frequently a problem in the implementation of programs in
Africa) were promptly made available. The Government authorized significant increases in water,
electricity, telephone and air transportation tariffs. To ensure that financial relations with the pertinent
utilities were restored on a sustainable footing, it increased its allocations for water, electricity and
telephone consumption, which rose from approximately 1 % of the budget in 1989 to close to 7% in
1994. It appointed a professional firm for the surveillance of imports, which in turn will contribute to
12



improve fairness in competition and also lead to more accurate customs declarations by and duty
collection from all importers. Overall, and with the exception of Air-Mauritania, the Governmnent
acted in accordance with both the spirit and the letter of the conditionalities set down in the Credit
Agreement, which were satisfactorily fulfilled.
57.    The executing agency (CRSP) played a considerable role in implementation of the program and
achievemiient of its objectives. It performed its role of adviser to the Government in the preparation of
key strategic decisions concerning the program. It also served as coordinator between the Mintrisy of
Planning and the other technical ministries and departments involved, and supported the enterprises in
implementing the respective measures and action plans.  The PESAP has been instrumental in
strengthening capacity building at the CRSP which became a key interlocutor in the PE reform
process. However, a few initial problems were experienced as implementation got under way, due to
the fact that CRSP had not sufficiently grasped the need for careful planning of activities or the
modalities for utilizing the proceeds of the Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 2167-MAU) to finance
implementation of the PESAP reforms.
1H   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
58.    Based on the Bank's ex-post evaluation norms, the PESAP is classified as "satisfactory". This
assessment is based on the following elements: (i) satisfactory improvements in the institutional
framework for the public enterprises, (ii) the successful financial restructuring of SNIM; (iii) the
substantial progress made with the rehabilitation plans for SONELEC, PANPA and OPT, and
signature of their contract-plans; (iv) Government withdrawal from certain nonviable MECs; (v)
liberalization of imports of commodities (rice, sugar, tea) and demonopolization of the insurance
sector, and (vi) the sustainable nature of all of those reforms.
59.    However, the program of PE reform and privatization in Mauritania has not been finalized.
Some of the reforms initiated under the PESAP still need to be reinforced or completed, including: (a)
the improvement of accounting and auditing practices and of financial control over PEs; (b)
introduction of efficient cost accounting systems within most PEs; (c) rehabilitation of Air-Mauritania;
(d) Government divestiture from the 17 mixed-economy companies in which it is still shareholder; and
(e) adoption of measures to avoid recurrence of arrears to SONELEC in respect of Government-backed
customners, and to OPT in respect of subscriptions to international organizations.
I.     FUTURE OPERATIONS
60.    As indicated above, activities aimed at consolidating the PESAP reforms will be continued
under the Public Enterprise Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2167-
MAU) until its completion in 1998. Other problems emerging within the PESAP framework require
longer-term  solutions, such as: (i) the weaknesses of incentives for effective development of the
private sector following liberalization and privatization; (ii) establishment of a policy for optimal
foreign exchange allocation to economic operators; (iii) further liberalization of the fishery sector and
solution of its underlying problems, in particular as regards the termination of SMCP's exclusive
export riglits for certain species, the reliable collection of tax and customs duty revenue and foreign
exchange control within the framework of Government policy; (iv) promotion of a climate propitious
13



to the development of insurance services; and (v) reform of the profession of external auditor. These
problems could be addressed within the framework of other projects now at the gestation stage (e.g.
the Economic Management Project and the Financial and Private Sector Development Project).
Initiatives designed to draw upon SNIM's outstanding performance and management capacities should
also be developed so that this experience may be broadly disseminated.
J.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
61.    Four main lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the PESAP. The liberalization of
certain sectors (distribution, trade, services) does not automatically result in the emergence of a
modern, competitive market but can rather lead to monopolistic (or quasi-monopolistic) situations to
the benefit of certain private operators, for whomn it represents a 'monopoly rent". Care should be
taken in the process of preparing for liberalization, to include an enabling regulatory framework and
all the provisions, including incentive and control arrangements essential to the proper operation of a
competitive market (price liberalization, taxation, customs, banking services).   At the same time,
efforts must be made to interest and stimulate potential new operators.
62.    Government's divestiture demands meticulous preparation on a case-by-case basis, involving
much more than simply carrying out an accounting audit and an assessment of the value of the
enterprise.  A prefeasibility study of privatization is essential for assessing the most appropriate
implementation conditions. Thlereafter, strategic analyses of enterprises, of their environment, and of
the operators in their sectors (both domestic and foreign) need to be performed to examine all possible
scenarios and their advantages and disadvantages on the technical, social, financial, tax, and
technology transfer levels, for example. This would enable effective and realistic choices to be made
among the most appropriate divestiture options.
63.    In rehabilitating public enterprises, financial restructuring is not an end by itself.  If in the
meantime the enterprise management does not implement forceful reforms to improvc the management
svstem and the enterprise productivity and to significantly reduec its operating costs, the financial
restructuring would have little impact in the long run. For instance, SNIM and Air-Mauritania provide
such examples of financial restructuring with and without promising outcome, respectively.
64.    Within the framework of PE sector adjustment operations, important resources are sometimes
allocated directly to cntcrprises in view of their financial restructuring. In this context the Bank should bc
morc demanding on the quality of management and design explicit criteria to monitor enterprise
performance improvements. The signing of a contract-plan is not a sufficient criterion to cnsure that an
enterprise will effcctively implement the reforms required to restore its profitability.  It should be
reinforced by specific performance objectives whose satisfactory achievement should also be reflected
in the legal covenants or conditionalities, as appropriate.
14



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PART II -- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1  Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Objectives     Substantial        Partial         Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                O                0                 O                O
Sector policies                       0                U                 O                O
Financial objectives                  0                O                 [                O
Institutional development             O                El                O                O
Physical objectives                   U                 O                O                0
Poverty reduction                     U                O                 O                0
Gender concerns                       U                 U                U                0
Other social objectives               U                0                 U                U
Environmental objectives              U                U                 U                El
Public sector management              0                U                 U                U
Private sector development            O                0                 U0               0
Other (specify)                       U                 U                U                U
B. Proiect Sustainability             Likelv                Unlikelv                Uncertain
0                      0                       0
C. Bank Performance              Highlv Satisfactory       Satisfact                Deficient
Identification                          O                                              D O
Preparation assistance                  O                      0                       0
Appraisal                               0                      0                        0
Supervision                             0                      0                       0
IS



1). Borrower Performnance           HMOWlv Satisfactorn            Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                                   C                         E:                         0
Implementation                                0                         0Z                         0
Covenant compliance                           0                         0                          E
OYperation (if applicable)                   0                          0                          0:
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactotv              Unsatisfactorv
0                         E0                         0
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                                        Purpose                           Year of Approval  Status
Preceding Operations
To complement IMF-supported stabilization measures, with structura
- Credit 1812-MAU -              reforms in (i) public sector management; (ii) banking sector reforms  1987    Closed
Structural Adjustment Credit     (iii) public enterprise reforms; (iv) energy; (v) agriculture and rura
development; (vi) fisheries development; and (vii) private secto
promotion.
- Credit 1567-MAU -              tmprovement of PE legal and institutional framework, revision o   1985        Closed
PE Technical Assistance and      incentive policies, rehabilitation  of individual enterprises, an
Rehabilitation Credit            introduction of other measures to rationalize and improve th
efficiency of the PE sector.
- Credit 2643-MAU -              Assistance to the rehabilitation of SNIM, the iron ore mining     1986        Closed
Rehabilitation Project for SNIM  company.
- Credit 1572-MAU -              To support private sector development, by financing studies t     1985        Closed
Industrial Development Project   develop appropriate policies for improving sub-sector performanc
and for further expanding the manufacturing sector.
Simultaneous Operation
- Credit 2167-MAU -              To provide support and resources to Government to implemen        1990       On-going
PE Technical Assistance and      reforms under the PESAP, and strengthen Government capacities t
Institutional Development Credit    devise and implement PE refomis, to monitor the sector performanc
and manage it future development.
Planned Operations
Consolidation of banking sector restructuring, improvement o   FY 1995/96    Expected
Financial and Private Sector     incentives for private sector activities through further liberalization o
Development Project              foreign exchange system, upgrading of the legal, regulatory an
judicial environment governing private sector activities, an
enhancement of reforms in the fishing and mining sectors
16



Table 3: Program  Timetable
Steps in Program Cycle                     Date Planed                   Date actual
Identification                                        April 1988
Preparation
Appraisal                                            January 1990                  January 1990
Negotiations                                           May 1990                   May 25, 1990
Letter of Development Policy                           May 1990                   May 25, 1990
Board presentation                                     June 1990                  June 26, 1990
Signing                                                June 1990                  July 18, 1990
Effectiveness                                          July 1990                 August 29, 1990
First tranche release                                  July 1990                September 30, 1990
Second tranche release                                 July 1991                 March 31, 1993
Third tranche release                                  July 1992                 March 31, 1994
Project completion                                  December 1992              Septernber 5-18, 1994
Loan closing                                       December 31, 1992              August 3, 1994
Table 4: Credit Disbursements : Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)             1990            1991           1992           1993         1994
Appraisal estimate               18,000         30,000          40,000        40,000        40,000
Actual                           19,295         19,295          19,295        31,961        42,750
Actual as % of estimate           107%          64.3%           48.2%          79.9%        106.8%
Date of final disbursement: July 18, 1994
Table 5 : Key Indicators for Program Implementation and Operation
The key indicators for program implementation and operations, which were defined in the President's Report,
coincided with the different steps of the PESAPs action plan. This action plan was sequenced into three series of
activities which were monitored throughout implementation and updated in supervision reports. Satisfactory progress
in carrying out these activities was among the conditions of release of the successive tranches of the Credit.
Therefore, relevant information on these indicators are included in Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants.
17



Table 6: Studies Included in the Program
All studies included in the PESAP were carried out under the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Lnstitutional
Development Project (Cr.2167-MAU). Detailed information on these studies will be provided within the framework
of that Project's ICR.
Table 7: Program Costs'
(Foreign costs in US$ mnillion)
Item                            Appraisal estimate   |         Actual
SNIM  - Capital increase                                      69.00                    69.00
SNIM Financial Restructuring                                  50.00
Restructuring of other enterprises                            25.00                    61.26
Settlement of Government arrears to PEs                        8.00
Social costs                                                   7.00                      7.50
Reimbursement of bank deposits                                 _                         3.50
Imports Verification                                           --                        3.50
TOTAL                                   159.00                   144.76
Table 8:  Program  Financing
(Foreign costs in US$ mnillion)
Source                           Appraisal estimate              Actual
IDA                                                           40.00                     42.75
IDA-reflows                                                    10.00                    10.41
Cofinancing Institutions - AfDB                                 --                      18.60
- Arab Funds                            50.00                     21.00
Bilateral donors - Spain                                        5.00
- Japan                                          50.00                    38.00
- Gennany                                         4.00                    14.00
TOTAL                                   159.00                   144.76
The PESAP did not have local costs per se. All local costs were funded under the PE T'echnical Assistance and Institutional
Development Project (Cr.2167-MAU), as this Project was designed to support implementation of the PESAP.
18



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants2
Credit     Covenant    Present 3
Agreement     type       status                 Descnption of covenant                    Comments
Section
2 02. (b)    Financial     C      The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,     Fulfilled.
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in BCM on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.04,2.06   Financial     c      The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Association          Fulfilled.
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year a commitment charge on the principal amount of
the Credit not withdrawn at a rate to be set by IDA, but
not to exceed 0.5% p.a..
2.05 / 2.06  Financial     C      The Borrower shall pay to IDA  semiannually on           Fulfilled.
February 15 and August 15 in each year a service
charge of 0.75% p.a. on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding.
3. 01. (a)  Consultation   C      The Borrower and the IDA shall from time to time, at     Fulfilled.
the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
3.01 (b)   Consultation    c      Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower       Fulfilled.
shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
3.02        Procurement    C      Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree,        Fulfilled.
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule 2 to the DCA.
2  The Legal Covenants did not provide for original fulfillment dates.
3  Present status    C  = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
19



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 2/6)
Credit    Covenant    Present
Agreement     type      status                 Descnption of covenant                     Comments
Section
3 03. (a)   Subsidiary    c      The Borrower shall conclude a subsidiary agreement        Fulfilled.
agreement            with SNIM, whereby it shall undertake to pass on, as
an additional equity contribution to the share capital of
SNIM, an aggregate amount of $55,000,000 equivalent,
corresponding to a part of the local counterpart funds
generated by the sale of the foreign exchange made
available to the Borrower under the Program.
3.03. (b)   Subsidiary    C      The subsidiary agreement under paragraph 3.03.(a)         Fulfilled.
agreement            above shall be on such terms and conditions as shall be
acceptable to the Association, including:
(i) an action plan acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, giving details of the major actions that
SNIM will be required to undertake in order to
strengthen the management of the Guelbs' plant and
improve its plant availability;
(ii) details of the proposed financial restructuring and
operational plan of SNIM; and
(iii) provisions for a reporting system that will enable
the Borrower and the Association to monitor progress
in the implementation of the action plan under sub-
paragraph (i) above, and the financial restructuring and
operational plan under sub-paragraph (ii) above.
3.04.       Subsidiary    C      The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SNIM     Fulfilled.
agreement            Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the SNIM Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof
3.05. (a)    Accounts!    C      The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained     Fulfilled.
Audit                records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
20



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 3/6)
Credit     Covenant    Present
Agreement     tvpe        status                  Description of covenant                      Comments
Section
3.05 (b)    Accounts       c       The Borrower shall                                           Fulfilled.
l   Audit
(i) have the records and accounts referred  to  in
paragraph 3.05. (a) including those for the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropniate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof the  Association  shall from  time  to  time
reasonably request.
3.05. (c)    Accounts /    c       For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals       Fulfilled.
Audit                  from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph 3.05. (a) above, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph 3.05. (b)
and that the report of such audit contains separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
21



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 4/6)
Credit     Covenant      Present
Agreement      type        status           Conditions of Release of Second Tranche                Comments
Section
S 3 A. .    Sector policy    c      The Borrower has:                                               Fulfilled.
conditionality
budgetary               (a) made adequate allocations in the 1991 budget for
change                  payment of the services of SONELEC, SMCPP and
OPT, and for the surveillance of fishing waters off the
coast of Mauritania, and
(b) taken all other measures necessary to avoid
recurrence of new arrears, including the prompt
payment of all amounts due to SONELEC, SMCPP and
OPT during the preceding twelve (12) months' period.
S 3 A. 2.    Sector policy   C      The Borrower has reduced by at least fifty percent             Fulfilled.
conditionality:         (50%) the level of arrears due to public enterprises as of
budgetary               the date of this Agreement, net of arrears due by the
change                  enterprises themselves, which the Borrower is entitled
to off-set.
S 3 A. 3.    Project        CP      The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the  Unsatisfactory
iunpleentauon           implemnentation of the restructuring and action plans for  implernentation of Air
arrangement             SONELEC, OPT, Air Mauritania, SMCP and PANPA.    Mauritania's action plan.
S 3 A. 4.      idem         CP      The Borrower has concluded performance contracts with  Performance contract
Air Mauritania and PANPA.                               with Air Mauritanma was
signed but not inforced.
S 3 A. 5.      iden          C      The Borrower has:                                              Fulfilled.
(a) achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation
of the ftmancial restructuring and operational plan of
SNIM; and
(b) agreed with the Association on a satisfactory
financing plan and project management arrangements
for the development of the new iron ore deposit at
M'haoudat.
S 3 A. 6.    Monitoring /    C      The Borrower has conducted a review, satisfactory to           Fulfilled.
review                  the Association, of all of its MECs and has taken
necessary steps to phase out of its portfolio not less than
half of those whose financial performance has been
found to be unsatisfactory.
S 3 A. 7.    Project         C      The number of staff employed in public enterprises as of       Fulfilled.
implementation          January 1, 1990 has been reduced by not less than 800
altogether.
22



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 5/6)
Credit    Covenant type    Present
Agreement                   status    Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (continued)          Comments
Section
S 3 X 8.    Sector policy     c      The Borrower has, not later than September 30, 1990,           Fulfilled.
conditionalitv:          abolished  the  monopoly  of  SONIMEX   on  the
admin change            importation and distribution of rice.
S 3 A, 9.    Sector policy    C      The Borrower has taken necessary steps to have a study         Fulfilled.
conditionality:          conducted on the future of SOMIR.
other studies
Many enterprises (EPICs,
S 3 A. 10.   Institutional   CP      The new accounting system and budgetary procedures  MECs) are not yet
introduced by the Borrower, to monitor the financial  equiped with these
performance of the public enterprise sector, have been  accounting systetn and
extended to all enterprises in the sector.               budgetary procedures.
S 3 A 11.   Project           C      The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the             Fulfilled.
implementation           provision of severance pay and other forms of assistance
in favor of employees who are declared redundant as a
result of the Program.
Credit     Covenant      Present
Agreement      type        status           Conditions of Release of Third Tranche                 Comments
Section
S 3 B. 1.    Sector policy   C      The Borrower has                                               Fulfilled.
conditionality:
budgetary               (a) made adequate allocations in the 1992 budget for
change                  payment of the services of SONELEC, SMCPP and
OPT, and for the surveillance of fishing waters off the
coast of Mauritania, and
(b) taken all other measures necessary to avoid
recurrence of new arrears, including the prompt
payment of all amounts due to SONELEC, SMCPP and
OPT during the preceding twelve (12) months' period.
S 3 B 2.    Sector policy    C      The Borrower has completed the full settlement of all          Fulfilled.
condiuonality:          remaining arrears due to public enterprises as of the
budgetary               date of this Agreement, net of arrears due by the
change                  enterprises themselves, which the Borrower is entitled
to off-set.
S 3 B 3.    Project         CP      Trhe Borrower has maintained satisfactory progress in  Implemantation of Air
implementation          the implementation of the restructuring and action plans  Mauritania's recovery
arrangement             for SONELEC, OPT, Air Mauritania, SMCP  and  plan was not satisfactory.
PANPA.
23



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 6/6)
Credit    Covenant type   Present
Agreement                    status     Conditions of Release of Third Tranche (continued)            Comments
Section
This contract was signed by
S 3 B. 4.       Project       CP      The Borrower has concluded a performance contract  Government, but still needs
implementation          with OPT.                                                  l'arliamentary  approval to
arrangernent                                                                       become effective
S 3 B. 5.       Project        C      The Borrower has maintained satisfactory progress in             Fulfilled.
implementation          the implementation of the financial restructuring and
arrangement             operational plan of SNIM.
S 3 B. 6.       Project       CP      The Borrower has taken all necessary steps to phase out  Four loss-mnaking MECs
implementation          of its portfolio all those of its MECs whose financial  still rernain in
arrangement             performance has been found to be unsatisfactory.           Goverfnment's portfolio.
S 3 B. 7.    Sector policy     C      The  Borrower  has  abolished  the  monopoly  of                 Fulfilled.
conditionality:         SONIMEX on all its products.
admin change
S 3 B. 8.       Project        C      The  Borrower has continued  to  make  satisfactory              Fulfilled.
implemcntation          progress in the provision of severance pay and other
forms of assistance in favor of employees who are
declared redundant as a result of the Program.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of project cycle                         Planned              Revised               Actual
Through appraisal        (Preparation, preappraisal)              8.0                116.1                 110.9
Appraisal 4  Board      (Negotiation)                            92.0                 99.3                 48.3
Board 4  Effectiveness                                            0.0                  0.0                  0.0
Supervision                                                     141.4                152.6                 82.9
Completion                                                        0.0                 17.0                  18.0
Total                                  241.4                 385.0                260.1
24



Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance  rating 4
Stage of    Mornh/    Number   Days           Specialized staff skills                                           Types of problems
project cycle   Year        of       in             represented             Implementation     Development
-                 -       peons   field                                         status            impact_l
Credit 1567-MAU and
Through        06/88         5        4     Economist, Energy, Mining,                                         preliminary discussions on
aDpraisal                                   Consultants (2)                                                    PESAP operation.
10/88       6        21    Economists (2), Petroleum,                                          PE sector assessment and
Mining, Transport, Consultant                                     preparation of lending
operation
11/88       5        11    Economists (2), Sanitary
engineer, Financial analyst,                                      Electricity and water utility
Consultant                                                        rehabilitation
l06-07/89     5        26    Economist, Financial analyst,                                      PESAP preappraisal
Mining, Consultants (2)
01-02/90      7        22    Economists (2), Lawyer,                                            PESAP appraisal
Mining, Energy, Financial
___________    _________     analyst, Social aspects
Appraisal 4
Board
Board 4
Effectiveness
Supervision                                                                                                   Overall implementation
I        10-11/90      8        17    Task Manager, PE specialist,                                       review, social aspects,
Energy, Mining, Fisheries,                                        SNIM restructuring,
Lawyer, Airline, Job redeployt                                    cofinancing issues
11       09-10/91       3        39    Task Manager, Mining,                 1                 2          Implementation delays
Telecom.
III       10-11/92      2        21    Task Manager, Mining                   1                 I         Implementation review
IV        10-11/93      4        10    Task Manager, PE Specialist,           I                 I         Implementation review, OPT
Telecom., Mining                                                  contrat plan
V        02-03/94       1        22    Task Manager                         HS                HS          Implementation review
Completion      09/94        2        14    Economist, Consultant                 1                  1         ICR preparation
Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: rating are HS (highly satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4 (lowest).
25



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
Dimanche 18 septembre 1994
Aide-Memoire de la Mission de Preparation du
Rapport d'Achevement de la Mise en Oeuvre du PASEP
1.     Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de Messrs. J-M. Happi, Economiste
(AF5IE) et J-P. Thibaut, Consultant, a sejourne en Mauritanie du 5 au 18 septembre 1994. La
mission avait pour objectif de preparer le Rapport d'achevement du Programme d'ajustement du
secteur des entreprises publiques (PASEP).
2.     La mission remercie le Gouvemement de la Republique Islamique de Mauritanie,
notanument les Ministeres du Plan, des Finances, et du Commerce, le Directeur de la CRSP et ses
collaborateurs, ainsi que les Directeurs et cadres des entreprises visitees pour leur accueil, leur
disponibilite et leur collaboration aux travaux de la mission.
3.     Les points de vue exprimes dans le present Aide-Memoire ne refletent que ceux de la
mission. lus n'engageront la Banque Mondiale qu'apres confirmation ecrite par le siege.
4.     La mission a foumi au Gouvemement I'appui et les conseils necessaires, afin qu'il
prepare sa propre contribution au Rapport d'achevement (ICR) du PASEP. Le plan operationnel
qu'il lui a communique a cet effet est joint en Annexe.
5.     Resume: Le texte ci-dessous fait la synthese du Rapport preparatoire d'evaluation
retrospective du PASEP, qui est egalement joint en Annexe.
A.    Obiectifs du PASEP
6.     Le PASEP avait pour objectif de renforcer les reformes structurelles mises en oeuvre par
le Gouvemement dans le secteur des entreprises publiques. II visait notamment a (i) ameliorer
l'environnement legal et institutionnel des entreprises et leurs relations financi&res avec le
Gouvemement; (ii) proceder a la restructuration financiere de la SNIM et d'Air-Mauritania et
poursuivre la rehabilitation des societes nationales; et (iii) poursuivre le desengagement de l'Etat
du secteur parapublic.
26



7.     Les objectifs (i) et (ii) ci-dessus etaient pertinents, clairement enonces, circonscrits par
des mesures realistes et, lorsqu'appropriees, par des normes quantitatives qui ont permis de
suivre le deroulement de chacun des objectifs. Par contre, certains des objectifs (iii) visant au
desengagement de l'Etat de certaines societes d'economie mixte, notamment celles constituees en
partenariat avec des Gouvemements etrangers, n'etaient pas realistes et ne tenaient pas
suffisamment compte des obstacles juridiques et financiers qu'impliquait ce desengagement.
B.     Realisation des obiectifs
8.     La mission considere que les objectifs du PASEP ont 6te substantiellement realises, mais
a des degres divers.
9.     Reforme du cadre legal et institutionnel. Le cadre legal et institutionnel du secteur
parapublic a ete fondamentalement reform& Les entreprises publiques (SN, SEM) jouissent
d'une v6ritable autonomie de gestion courante. Le contr6le du Gouvernement sur ces entreprises
s'exerce desormais par l'intermediaire des conseils d'administration. On observe que ces nouvelles
dispositions sont effectivement mises en oeuvre par les entreprises et leurs ministeres de tutelle,
qui en respectent tant l'esprit que la lettre. Neanmoins, Neanmoins, dans plusieurs cas, le
fonctionnement des conseils d'administration devrait etre ameliore, notamment du point de vue de
l'exercice effectif de ses prerogatives d'orientation et de contr6le de l'entreprise.
10.    Des progres substantiels ont ete realis&s dans le domaine de la comptabilite generale,
desormais les entreprises produisent leurs etats financiers annuels dans les delais prevus par la
Loi. Mais des efforts importants demeurent necessaires en matiere de comptabilite analytique et
de methodes de previsions financieres. Nombre d'entreprises ne disposent pas encore de systeme
d'informations de gestion strategique et budgetaire tres performants. Par ailleurs, il ne semble
pas que les commissaires aux comptes remplissent parfaitement leur r6le de contr6le et de
fiabilisation de l'information comptable et financiere.  Les pratiques de cette profession
necessitent d'etre ameliorees.
11.    SNIM. Les objectifs du PASEP concernant la SNIM  visaient a redresser sa situation
financi&re, afin de lui foumir les moyens d'ameliorer sa competitivite sur le plan international et
retablir les bases de sa viabilite a long terme. Ces objectifs ont ete realises de facon hautement
satisfaisante par la mise en oeuvre reussie des mesures suivantes
*   Ia restructuration financiere de la Societe,
*  une amelioration soutenue de sa productivite,
*  Ia mise en exploitation des gisements de fer de Mhaoudat, et
*  I'amelioration substantielle de la gestion de sa tresorerie.
12.    Air-Mauritania.  Cette entreprise etait egalement directement visee par le projet qui
avait fixe comme objectif sa restructuration financiere, ceci devant contribuer a lui donner les
moyens ndcessaires pour engager son redressement d'exploitation. Les differentes mesures de
restructuration financiere suivantes ont ete realisees: (i) recapitalisation, (ii) reechelonnement de
la dette FOKKER, (iii) retrocession integrale des parties de la dette annulee par le Club de
Paris, (iv) affectation du produit de la vente de I'avion presidentiel, et (v) apurement des arrieres
de l'Etat.
27



13.    Cependant et malgre l'assistance technique importante dont elle a b6n6ficid au titre du
projet d'assistance technique (2167-MAU), on constate un retard considerable dans la mise en
oeuvre du plan strategique de redressement que la compagnie aurait du mener de son c6te en
parallele sur le plan commercial, technique et organisationnel. Ce retard s'est traduit par la
persistance d'importants deficits d'exploitation, dont les consequences ont risque d'aneantir les
effets a court terme de la restructuration financiere si un plan d'urgence n'avait pas ete mis en
oeuvre au debut de 1994. Dans ce contexte, le document que constitue le contrat-plan apparait
davantage comme un document formel, dans la mesure ou aussi il constituait une conditionnalite
de decaissement du credit IDA, que comme un cadre de reference efficace pour la redressement
des operations de la Compagnie.
14.    OPT. Le PASEP prevoyait des changements majeurs du cadre institutionnel de l'OPT,
la rehabilitation de sa fonction comptable et financiere et l'adoption d'un contrat-plan avec le
Gouvemement.  Ces objectifs sont substantiellement atteints.  L'Office a significativement
ameliore la qualite de ses prestations ainsi que ses resultats.  Un contrat-plan avec le
Gouvemement a e  elabore sur la base du plan strategique de l'Office. 11 definit ses objectifs de
performance et les mesures de gestion necessaires A leur realisation, ainsi que les engagements de
l'Etat. 11 doit faire l'objet de l'approbation du Parlement.  Or sa finalisation formelle qui
constituait une des conditionnalites du Credit 2166 n'est pas encore satisfaite. Tant que ce
contrat-plan n'est pas en vigueur, une attention particuliere doit etre portee au respect de l'esprit
qui avait preside A la preparation de son avant-projet, notamment concemant les aspects
financiers (investissement et autofinancement) et d'autonomie de gestion.
15.    SONELEC. Au terme de son premier contrat-programme arrive a echeance en 1991, la
SONELEC a renouvele son second contrat de performance triennal, dans le cadre du PASEP.
Dans le cadre de ces contrats, 1'entreprise a atteint et souvent depasse ses objectifs de
performance. Le redressement de la SONELEC demeure toutefois fragile. Ne pouvant pas
envisager la repercussion mecanique sur ses tarifs de toutes les hausses qu'elle subit sur les prix
de ses intrants, la SONELEC devra davantage agir sur ses couits. Ses efforts de reductions de
ses couts et I'amelioration de sa productivite ont besoin d'etre intensifies.  II est egalement
indispensable qu'elle finalise la mise en oeuvre de sa comptabilite analytique, qui lui est necesaire
pour I'dlaboration d'une politique de tarification pertinente.
16.    PANPA. La rehabilitation du PANPA dans le cadre du PASEP a ete substantielle.
Afin de renforcer sa viabilite a long terme, une strategie competitive de services et de tarification
devra etre elaboree vis-a-vis des ports concurrents (eg. les ports de Dakar et d'Abidjan, pour la
desserte du Mali).
17.    Reglement des arrieres de l'Etat et mesures de non-recurrence. La systematisation
des provisions budgetaires couvrant les consommations effectives a la charge du Gouvernement
reflete l'engagement de l'Etat A assainir durablement ses relations financieres avec les entreprises
publiques. 11 a aussi mis en oeuvre avec l'appui des societes nationales concemres (OPT,
SONELEC) des mesures vigoureuses de contr6le et de limitations des consommations des
Services publics. Ces mesures ont contribue A instaurer une discipline financiere dans les
relations du Gouvemement avec les entreprises publiques. Cet objectif est substantiellement
atteint mais a besoin d'etre consolide.
18.    Ainsi, les dotations du Budget pour les charges d'eau et d'electricite sont passees de UM
80 millions en 1990 A UM 700 millions en 1994. Neanmoins, la SONELEC encourt toujours
des risques importants de recurrence des arrieres de paiements de l'Etat, au titre des clients
cautionnes.  Les consommations faisant l'objet d'une telle caution sont du meme ordre de
28



grandeur que celles de l'Administration. Des mesures approprnies et la responsabilite de ces
clients par rapport au reglement de leurs consommations doivent etre engagees afin d'eviter la
reconstitution des arridres du Gouvemement envers la SONELEC.
19.    De meme, les dotations du Budget pour les consommations de telephone sont passees de
UM 60 millions en 1990 A UM 520 millions en 1994. Ceci a ete accompagne d'un programme
de rationalisation et de restrictions de ltensemble du parc telephonique public dont les resultats
sont hautement satisfaisants. Neanmoins, un point d'ombre demeure, a savoir, les cotisations de
la Mauritanie a des organisations internationales de poste et de telecommunications, payees par
l'OPT pour le compte du Gouvemement mais non remboursees par ce demier.
20.    Desengagement de l'Etat des SEM. Le desengagement de l'Etat des SEM s'est fait au
cas par cas, selon des modalites definies suite a l'audit (ou levaluation) de chaque entreprise.
Cette approche semble justifiee, etant donne la situation financiere des entreprises concemres qui
ont et6 davantage liquidees que privatisees. Par contre, le plan d'action du PASEP prevoyant le
retrait de l'Etat des (8) SEM dans lesquelles des Gouvernements etrangers sont actionnaires etait
irrealiste.  11 ne tenait pas compte des difficultes diplomatiques, juridiques et financieres
qu'impliquait ce retrait, et surtout de la complexite des montages financiers par lesquelles ces
societes ont e  initialement creees.
21.    Liberalisation des importations de riz, du sucre et du the (SONIMEX).  De prime
abord les resultats obtenus correspondent aux objectifs vises: (i) la SONIMEX grace a de
rigoureux efforts de gestion et A une evolution favorable (baisse) des cours d'achat du riz a ete
redressee et est devenue fortement bendficiaire en 1992 et (ii) A ce jour l'ensemble des trois
produits a ete demonopolise sans qu'il y ait eu carence d'approvisionnement ni de variation de
type speculatif sur les prix de vente. II convient cependant d'etre circonspect sur les realites
actuelles de ce secteur et ses risques A terme. Tout d'abord parce que dans la pratique la
suppression du monopole de droit de la SONIMEX s'est transformee en oligopole de fait (2 ou 3
gros importateurs), sans que s'instaure un veritable jeu concurrentiel. Par ailleurs, I'analyse des
statistiques de demandes d'importation et des declarations de dedouanement indique clairement
que la totalite des droits de douane n'est pas reellement acquittee par ces nouveaux operateurs.
Enfin la disparite (de disponibilites de devises et ou de conditions de credit fournisseurs) entre les
importateurs prives et la SONIMEX , penalise fortement cette derniere. Tout ceci fait que les
regles d'un veritable jeu concurrentiel ne sont pas veritablement remplies vidant ainsi de sa
substance la lib6ralisation du secteur.
22.    Demonopolisation du secteur des assurances.  Le secteur des assurances a e
libdralise dans le cadre des mesures prevues par le PASEP.  La Societe Mauritanienne
d'Assurance et de Reassurance (SMAR) qui detenait ce monopole est en cours de liquidation
judiciaire. Une nouvelle societe d'assurance (la NASR) a ete creee A partir du portefeuille de la
SMAR, prealablement assaini. Le Gouvemement envisage de ceder 66% du capital de la NASR
au secteur prive et a lance un appel d'offres de privatisation. L'arrivee de nouveaux operateurs
ou actionnaires dependra en realite de la capacite des pouvoirs publics A supprimer les
dysfonctionnements qui ont contribue A la faillite de la SMAR.
C.     Facteurs ayant affecte l'execution du PASEP
23.    La mise en oeuvre du PASEP a ete affectee par plusieurs facteurs. Le premier d'entre
eux et le plus important a et la Guerre du Golfe. Le PASEP a egalement ete perturbe par des
difficultes A mobiliser la totalite des financements dans les delais initialement prevus. Par
29



ailleurs, en plus des incidences des problemes de cofinancement du PASEP, le plan d'action de la
SNIM a e  mis en peril suite a (i) la forte chute des prix du fer, de plus de 13% en 1993, soit 8
points en dessous des cours prevus dans les simulations initiales; et (ii) la baisse significative de
la production vendue, de 24% entre 1991 et 1992, puis de 10% entre 1992 et 1993. Ce plan n'a
pu etre sauve que grace a une compression drastique de ses cofits d'exploitation par la SNIM et
la mise en exploitation des gisements de Mhaoudat dans des delais plut6t que prevus. Enfin, la
devaluation de l'ouguiya a eu des incidences defavorables sur les conditions d'exploitation de
certaines entreprises (SONELEC et Air-Mauritania, en particulier) dont elle a affecte la
rentabilite. En contrepartie, elle a profite a la SNIM et la SMCP, qui sont essentiellement
exportatrices. Au niveau d'Air-Mauritania, les changements successifs et rapproches de ses
dirigeants (4 directeurs generaux s'y sont succedes en quatre ans) ont egalement contribue a
ralentir la mise en oeuvre de son plan de redressement.
D.    Durabilite des reformes
24.    Dans 1'ensemble, I'evaluation retrospective du PASEP conclut a la durabilite des
reformes mises en oeuvre, meme si certaines d'entre elles necessitent d'etre consolidees. Par
exemple, le cadre institutionnel des entreprises publiques est reforme, mais les mecanismes de
contr6le financier des entreprises publiques (audits, commissaires aux comptes) doivent etre
renforces, davantage du point de vue de leur pratique que des textes legaux. Au niveau des
restructurations et rehabilitations des grandes entreprises, la viabilite a moyen et long terme de la
SNIM est retablie et la situation financiere de l'OPT, du PANPA et de la SONELEC est
redressee et devrait se consolider dans le cadre de leurs contrats-programmes, dont les plans
d'action en cours d'execution en sont les gages de reussite durable. Seule la situation d'Air
Mauritanie demeure particulierement pr&occupante bien que cette compagnie soit egalement sous
contrat-plan. L'assainissement des relations financieres de l'Etat avec les entreprises publiques
est durablement engage, nonobstant les problemes lies aux clients cautionnes, dans le cadre de la
SONELEC, et le probleme des cotisations a l'UIT et a l'UPU, dans le cadre de l'OPT. On peut
aussi emettre des reserves sur les possibilites de desengagement a moyen terme de l'Etat des
SEM creees en partenariat avec des Gouvemements etrangers, compte tenu des lenteurs des
n6gociations diplomatiques que ce desengagement suppose. Les mesures de liberalisation des
importations des produits de base (riz, sucre, the) n'atteindront leurs pleins objectifs que lorsque
les conditions de concurrence effective auront e  realisees, notamment l'acces concurrentiel aux
devises et I'acquittement de justes charges douanieres et fiscales par l'ensemble des importateurs.
E.     Performance de l'emprunteur
25.    Dans 1'ensemble la performance de l'emprunteur a ete bonne. Le Gouvemement a fait
preuve d'une adhesion manifeste aux reformes du PASEP et la CRSP a joue un role considerable
pour la mise en oeuvre du Progranune. Neanmoins, on note que l'execution du PASEP a connu
quelques problemes a ses debuts, dus au fait que la CRSP ntavait pas suffisamment apprdhende
la necessite d'une bonne planification des activites et l'utilisation pertinente des ressources du
Credit d'assistance technique (Cr. 2167-MAU) pour la mise en oeuvre des reformes prevues dans
le cadre du PASEP.
30



F.     Evaluation des resultats
26.    En se referant a la grille de classification des procedures d'evaluation retrospective de la
Banque et sur la base de ce qui prec&de, la mission est d'avis que le Programme PASEP est
classe comme satisfaisant.
G.     Operations futures
27.    Des actives visant a consolider les reformes mises en oeuvre dans le cadre du PASEP
vont Wre poursuivies par le Projet d'assistance technique et de developpement institutionnel des
entreprises publiques (Cr. 2167-MAU) jusqu'a son terme. D'autres problemes qui ont emerges
dans le cadre du PASEP requierent des solutions de plus long terme et pourraient etre abordes
dans le cadre d'autres projets en gestation (eg., le Projet de gestion economique ou le Projet de
promotion du secteur prive). Des initiatives visant a tirer des enseignements des performances
exceptionnelles et des capacites de gestion de la SNIM meriteraient egalement d'etre developpees,
afin d'en disseminer l'experience.
H.     Principales lecons
28.    Au terme de la mise en oeuvre du PASEP on peut en tirer un certain nombre
d'enseignements. La liberalisation de certains secteurs (distribution, commerce, services) ne se
traduit pas automatiquement par I'emergence d'un marche de type concurrentiel moderne mais
peut amener a des situations de monopole (ou quasi monopole) si toutes les dispositions et les
moyens d'incitation et de contr6le (liberalisation des prix, fiscalite, douanes, services bancaires)
ne sont pas strictement appliques.
29.    Le desengagement de l'Etat d'entreprises non rentables et les privatisations d'entreprises
viables exigent une veritable analyse strategique inteme et externe de l'entreprise, de son
environnement et des operateurs du secteur (nationaux et etrangers). Pour les privatisations, il
est preferable d'deaborer un programme veritable, qui definit une approche homogene et dans le
cadre duquel le Gouvemement indique clairement le nouveau r6le qu'il entend jouer dans les
activites industrielles et commerciales.
30.    Dans le processus de redressement et de developpement des entreprises, la
restructuration financi&re n'est pas une fin en soi, elle n'est qu'un moyen indispensable mais non
suffisant. Si dans le meme temps une Direction competente et motiv6e ne met pas en oeuvre un
programme de mesures vigoureuses sur le plan de la qualite, de la reduction des couts et de
l'amelioration des systemes de gestion, alors le programme est voue a l'dchec et tous les moyens
fournis (financiers et assistance technique) n'auront que peu d'impact.
31



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
APPENDIXES (continued)
B      Cofinancier Contribution to the ICR
The comments below on the ICR were received from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of
Japan. Comments were invited but not received from the other cofinanciers, namely Germany (KfW), the
African Development Bank and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
OECF's comments on the ICR
As a whole, the ICR is well sunmmarized and some beneficial lessons are drawn. Above all, the four lessons
drawn from the PESAP implementation, which are stated in para. 61-64, are appreciated because they
coincide with what OECF have always supported. Additional findings are as follows:
Para. 5: 'In particular, the Program did not take sufficiently into account the length of time needed to
settle all the financial, legal and diplomatic issues involved in Government withdrawal from
certain mixed-economy companies."
The OECF is satisfied with this stand of the World Bank, which is in favor of more suitable
policies to the current situation. In considering the length of needed time, the Government is
recommended to take into consideration not only the above issues but also long-term sector
policy and industrial relation among sectors, lest some sector with long-term comparative
advantage should spoil in the process of structural transformation.
Para. 40: 'The Government has paid a total of UM 690 million in compensation to persons thus affected
(job elimination)."
Increase in unemployment will no doubt continue. Furthermore, apart from the "disguised
unemployment" in rural agriculture communities, there rarely exist sectors which create new jobs.
The Government is advised to take long-term measures as well as the short-term compensation.
Vocational training seems to be one of effective measures, because it contributes to human
resource development and reduction of unemployment.
32



Para. 56: The OECF also feels that the Government's clear commitment to the reform will contribute to
the successful implementation of the PESAP. The OECF always believes that governmental
comnuitment is a prerequisite for success of structural adjustment.
Para. 61  "The liberalization of certain sectors does not automatically result in the emergence of a
modern, competitive market but can rather lead to monopolistic situations to the benefit of
certain private operators, for whom it represents a monopoly rent."
Even if the liberalization contributes to an activation of some sectors, the macro-economy of
Mauritania is not so stabilized as the market can automatically diffuse the liberalization effect
into other sectors. The OECF agrees with liberalization policy and at the same time insists
that the situation of each country should be taken into consideration. The OECF would like to
highly appreciate the above statement because it conforms to the OECF's opinion and seems to
be favorable to the current situation of Mauritania.
Others  Public sector reform aims at an efficiency improvement of public enterprises, an activation of
pnvate sector and a reduction of financial burden of central government. At this stage, it is
difficult to judge the final effect of the PESAP, because the reform is still underway and the
objectives of the reform have natures to be evaluated from long-term point of view. Although this
report is very significant as an evaluation report immediately after the program completion, re-
evaluation after some years will be very effective for a feed-back to next programs.
As mentioned above, one objective of public sector reform is a reduction of fiscal deficit; however,
restructuring cost will increase deficit in a short-term. Therefore, the Government has to make
careful implementation plan well coordinated with its macroeconomic policy. It is recommended to
examine the trend of fiscal position of the Govermment, by showing the transfer amount from the
Government to public enterprises in the report, as well as fiancial performances of the enterprises,
which are expressed in the report.
33



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
[Credit 2166-MAU]
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
APPENDIXES (continued)
C.      Miscellaneous Appendixes
Table Al: Trends in SNIM Performance
Indicator                                   1990        1991         1992        1993          1994
Volume of output (millions of tons)
-projected                                 11.00        11.00        10.00      10.00          10.00
- actual                                   11.36        10.47         8.01       9.66          10.50
- difference                              +0.36         -0.53        -1.19      -0.34         +0.50
Production costs (US$ per ton)
- projected                                  9.8          9.9         10.5       10.7           10.8
- actual                                    11.2         11.9         13.0       10.8           10.0
-difference                                +2.4         +2.0         +2.5        +0.1          -0.8
Cash flow (US$ millions)
- projected                                78.00        72.60       56.50       49.80         43.60
- actual                                   98.20       101.80       72.10       68.00         61.20
-difference                              +20.20       +30.80       +24.40      +17.20        + 17.60
Debt service ratio
- projected                                  1.0          1.2          1.2         1.0           1.0
- actual                                     1.0          1.5          0.9        1.1            1.2
- difference                                   0        +0.3          -0.3       +0.1          +0.2
Self-financing ratio (in %)
- projected                                    3           15          14          -1             8
- actual                                       7          55           -6           9            25
- difference                                 +4          +40          -19        + 10          + 17
Table A2  Size of the Public Enterprise Sector
L.egal Status             Number of PEs before the PESAP     Nunber of PEs after the PESAP
.___________ _  (Year:1990)                  (Year: 1994)
- SN                          0                                 4
Majonty State-owned - EPIC                          20                                6
-SEV                         20                                 10
Minontv State-owned  - SEV                          17                                 7
1TOTAL                                57                                27
34



Table A3   Performance of Enterprises Remeining in thMe Public Sector
(Septembef 1994)
fthousar.d o UM)
ENTERPRISES    STATUS   % STATE     SE - OA     RESULT 1990   RESULT 1991   RESULT 192   RESULT 1993
NASP               SN      10 0%     inur or
OPT                SN       100% S     ta.mm          286,382:      581,590:       332,1001      e 625,000
SONELEC            SN       100% lloamnaty            142,294        152,840       -84,800:       225,000
SMCP               SN       W's        hwenss           81,960        60,913-       31,8471         1,364
CNSS               M EPIC   100%    .aisemurity       106,222:       643,543:      941,808i         9,810
IMPRIMERIE        EPIC      100%       pnntinq           2,830        -7,427        -18,483!
PANPA             EPIC      100%        port          874,612         66,499        44,627        650,536
PAN               EAC       100' A      part            10,314      -242,100      -171,100       -211,973
SONADER           EPIC      100%      nr.itwe        -617,734       -457,594      -798,7141
SO MR             EPIC     100%       oil rwhnwy        -3,017        -3,039:        -e,352i
SOCOGIJ           SEU       99%      or truZon           3,739.       - ,512'         1,468
SAMMA             SEM       76%      m,rntionbw          4.271:       13,538:       19,428;
SAFA              SEM       75%         stow           -16,778:       29,464         4,839         79,338
SNIM              SEM       70%    iron are mrinn   1,743,504:   2,224,646          96,211!      422,417
A1R4AE            SEl       60% aSilie               *673,48a-    -153,970-    436,482            263,781
ALMAP             SEU   . 1%           fi5h.nr       -924,757       -935,803:    -216,OOOi
COMAUNAM          SE        61%    r mmntmn.rtnrwp       8,425:        1,a84       -16,6521       -68,713
MAUSOV            SI&U      61%       fishr"          296,024        367,413       170,883.    -186,682
SONMEX            SEM       51%         traed        454,382        428,472:       576,424:       1 6s, I 63
SAMIA             SA l      51%      aI,etn          -1,894         -117,076       -88,414t
SOMACAT        ,SA          49% S      oo nnhge          4. 168          187:      -11,092:         2,900
SMCPP/NAFTEC      SEU       34%     oil distnbution   1 1 7,94s      53,017       ; -75,283!
SOMAGAZ           SEM       34%         9"              16,191       -16,078        46,3456        30,638
SALIMAUREM        SEl   ;  31%        fish.rie_      -211,022       -288,074      -211,0211        -4,844
SIMAR             SEU       24%        fishness      -180,391s1       30,383       -24,547          2,201
MEPP              SEU       17%          04i           22,174:        16,086        17,930:        14,706
SPPAM             SEM       11%       fishernie      -117.966.    -133,266:    -153,717:
35






IBRD 25935
18                    16                     14                     12'                    10                       Foamer
Sport nsh;       |         AlGERIA
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                               N
3 0                                                                                                       30
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                             M A L
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                   _Nem :                    *Tom-obct--
TRACKS                                                                                      k   SENEG-L-                     j         NIGER
RAILROADS                                                                                  THE                   Booro  /          t<ome5
0      SELECTED TOWNS                                                                              GUlNEA-   GuINEA             O
1~REGION CAPITALS
28 + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAIROT M O R Oi1 C C  0    28                                             '    CofcLOky-.\    y OTE D 'OL tEE  NOxs   2 >
28  ~~~~~ ~      AIRPORTS                                                  M       R     C     O     2,'M     
28             ~~~~PORTS                                 -----------------8                                                  The Et-rd.-,e -oor) ermntr
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                          To Trndouf       -d.onr other-f-ormoror st9c
-    -    INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                th"s -ap do rot reply on tre pnrr of
BOUNDARIES   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~I,The World Eo-o G-op  noy dg-
BOUNDARIES                                                                                                - h. on 9.r Vhe  l status of any e-rr tor or
f{                  a rJny eotorsemeot or nccep-tn-ce of
0   100        200        300
26                                                                          -    - -E-- 0-0 A00          Ber  t l                        ALGERIA    26
KILOMETERS                     rF\
To La'                                                      Ckegg'ac"ChN
To lc Yosr    Bir Mogrein,
FORMER
24                                          SPANISH    I                                                                                                      24
SAHARA    I
Zou-er.    - t                                                 -     j
Fderle        lTourine
22                                                           I                                                                                                22
Nowchiboum                                                               0od6ne
la Goue,atoudn                                                                      
At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
20                                        6kji,, ueff                                                                                                         20
Nou.,mghS1,
f Aguial Fok            o           Tidiikia            .  Tichiit_
NOUAKCHOTT
18-                                                                                                                                                           18
Canga,,f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~Ir
Oa ~ ~      ~          ~         ~         ~ ~                   
Bout,                                     i N NW    L h
SAII                                                                                           M    A -L    Ia
.~~~~~~~~~~~1                             t't*  lA  o                     * +Tmedh 
Ga royl 
RENGA _jr                                                                                      M AyA el AIo
- 4   18                    16       ........,j                                                 10                     8                      6              14
FEBRUARY 1 995



