Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rkpti No. P-5293-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 30.7 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 30, 1990
TIs document has a restricted distribuon and may be used by recipilent only In tie perfonmace of
thdir offichl dutie Its contnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank authortion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              ougulya (UM)
US$1.00         -       UM 84.8   1/
UK 1 million   -        US$ 11,790
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Exchange rate as of March, 1990



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON YMS
ADB       2   African Development Bank
CRSP      s   Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Public
EPIC      s   Etablissements Publics a Caractere Industriel et
Commercial
FADES     s   Fonds Araoe pour le Developpement Economique et Social
OPT       s   Office des Postes et des T6lecowunnications
PANPA     s   Port Autonome de Nouakchott dit Port de l'Amitie
SEK       :   Societe d'Economie Mixte
SMAR      s   Soci6th Mauritanienne d'Assurances et de Reassurances
SMCP      s   Socidte Mauritanienne de Commercialisation du Poisson
SMCPP     s   Soci4t6 Mauritanienne de Conmmercialisation des
Produits Petroliers
SNIM      I    Societe Nationale Industrielle et Minibre
SOMIS     s   Societe Mauritanienne des Industries du Sucre
SONADER   s   Soci6te Nationale de Development Rural
SONELEC   s   Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
SONIMEX   I   Societe Nationale d'Import-Export
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MNURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
TABLE OP CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMURY           ..........s.ees.... o.............   i
I.   THE ECONOMY  ........................................   1
A.   Background ....... ... .................***.....   1
B.   Government's Adjustment Program .................   2
C.   Economic and Social Impact of the Adjustment
Process ....................................................  3
D.   Medium term Objectives and Policies and Future
Fnancing Needs .................................       4
II    TBE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ...........................   6
A.   Sector Size and Performance       .....................   6
B.   Mauritania's Experience with Public Enterprise
Reforms *.... ............. ....            .......   7
III.   THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM ................. 13
A.   Reform Objectives ...............................  13
B.   Legal and Institutional Development .............   14
C.   Enterprise Rehabilitation and Restructuring ..... 15
D.   Sector Rationalization ..........................  21
IV.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT ....... *so* ............. .. .......  22
A.   Credit History ...........................................  22
B.   Relationship of the Proposed Credit to the Reform
Program ...............................................  23
C.   Effects of the Adjustment Program .... ..........  23
D.   Social Impact ............ .......... *. .......  25
E.   Enviromnental Impact . ........................... 26
F.   Benefits and Risks ..............................  27
G.   Credit Amount ...................................  28
H.   Monitorable Actions, Disbursement and Procurement  29
I.   Administration and Auditing .....................  32
V.   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY ...................  32
A.   Bank Group Operations ....... ......... .......... . 32
B.   Country Assistance Strategy ............ ... .....  33
VI.   COORDINATION WITH TH  IMP AND OTHER DONORS ...........  35
VII.   RECOIIENDATION .. so   ..........................          35



ANNEXES
Annex  I       Mauritania - Economic Indicators .................. 36
Annex  2       Status of Bank Group Operations ................... 40
Annex  3       Supplementary Project Data Sheet .................. 41
Annex  4       Letter of Sector Development Policy ............... 42
Annex  5       Policy Matrix .................................... 67
Annex  6       Financial Plan .................................. 71
Annex  7       Public Enterprise Data ..................... ..... 73
Annex  8       SNIM ............            .................* 75



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowers           Goverment of Mauritania
Beneficiariess      SNIM and other public enterprises
Credit Amount:      SDR 30.7 million (U*$40.0 million equivalent)
Cofinancins:        Arab Donors (US$5O.O million); Spain (US$5.0 million),
Germany (US$4.0 million). In addition, Mauritania has
requested an amount equivalent to US$500. million from
Japan.
Termst              Standard IDA terms, with a 40 years maturity.
Description:        The proposed credit would support the extension of the
Government's structural adjustment program aimed at
deepening the reforms in the public enterprise sector.
Actions under the proposed program would include: (i)
modification of the legal and institutional framework
with the objective of eliminating state monopolies and
facilitating increased private sector participation;
(ii) a program of divestiture aimed at reducing the
number of enterprises in the sector; and, (iii)
financial restructuring programs for key enterprises
remaining in the sector, particularly SINH, the iron
ore mining company, which is by far the largest
enterprise in the country. The PE Institutional
Development and Technical Assistance Project, prepared
in parallel with this adjustment operation, will
provide support to the Government for implementation
of the program.
Benefits and Risks: The potential benefits of this program are substantial
in that it would restore the financial viability of
iron ore mining and improve public sector resource
management which are essential for achieving
sustainable, long term growth. The more immediate
benefits will be the reduced financial burden of the
sector on the Government budget and the domestic
banking system and the freeing of resources for more
economically productive uses. The risks associated
with the program are that continued liberalization of
the economy and divestiture of public enterprises
would prove politically unacceptable. The difficult
actions already taken, however, show the high level of
government commitment to the program. Another risk is



the possibility that the adjustment program may prove
too demanding for the limited capabilities of the
Mauritania administration. particularly ln view of the
difficulties arising from the large number of people
repatriated from Senegal. The companion technical
assistance project, however, is expecteu to help the
Ministry of Plan implement the reform program.
Another risk is the impact of the fluctuating value of
the dollar and the international price of the iron ore
on SNM5 s finances.  To mitigate against this risk,
SNEM plans to build up reserves to help tide it over
any such crisis.
Estimated
Disbursements:      The proposed credit would be disbursed in three
tranches, the first at credit effectiveness - expected
in July 1990 - and the rest within 24 months
thereafter. Three tranches have been provided to
allow for adequate monitoring of various reforms and
activities that require more time to be completed.
Rate of Return:     n.a.
Appraisal report:   There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Map:                IBRD 22261



REPORT AND RECOMOENDATION OF THE PRESVIENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A PUBLIC ENWTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit tue following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania to support the
Government's Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP). The
proposed credit for SDR 30.7 million (USS 40.0 million equivalent) would be
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. The program would be
cofinanced by contributions from the Spanish (US$5.0 million) and German
Governments (US$4.0 million), under the Special Program of Assistance to
Debt Distressed Countries of Sub-Saharan Africa (SPA). The Government of
Mauritania has also requested Japan for financing in an amount equivalent
to US$50.0 million also under the SPA. Further cofinancing in the amount
of US$50.0 million would be provided by Arab donors.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Backkround
2.        Mauritania is a vast country, with a population of 1.8 million
and a very narrow resource base. Of the 1.1 million square km total
surface area, only 0.2 percent is suitable for cropping. Moreover,
agricultural production has been severely impaired by twenty years of
recurrent and worsening drought. The non-agricultural resources of the
economy are also limited. Iron ore mining has long represented a large
part of national income, but its contribution has diminished since the late
1970's due to the downturn in iron ore prices in world markets. In recent
years, fish exports have surpassed iron ore as Mauritania's largest source
of export earnings.
3.        As a result of declining economic prospects in many of
Mauritania's rural areas, there has been substantial migration to urban
centers from all parts of the country, except the Senegal valley region,
where some potential for growth exists. About half of the inhabitants live
in urban areas with a majority of them suffering from extremely low
standards of living, as reflected in key social indicators: life
expectancy at birth is estimated at 45 years; infant mortality is 132 per
1,000; only 55 percent of school-age children attend primary school, and
less than 20 percent of the population is literate in either of the two
official languages, Arabic and French.



- 2 -
4.        Por many of the last seventeen years Mauritania's economic
development has been uneven and marked by major financial imbalances. As a
result of a series of droughts in the 1970, and early 19808, which led to
rapid desertification, the country has become structurally dependent on
food aid. At the same time, the iron ore mining sector, which was the main
source of growth in the early 1970s, was heavily hit by the world steel
market crisis in the second half of the decade, and the mining industry's
share in GDP declined sharply.
5.        While exogenous factors contributed significantly to the
deterioration of Mauritania's economic and financial situation, their
impact was aggravated by weak economic management. Poorly managed,
overstaffed public enterprises became increasingly inefficient and
accumulated heavy financial losses.  The Governa nt's development
strategies neglected long-term external and domestic demand constraints and
intersectoral linkages, and the lack of appropriate criteria for selecting
public investments resulted in projects with low or even negative rates of
return. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the Government embarked on a
large public investment program financed almost entirely with external
borrowing; the program channeled resources toward low-yielding projects and
led to a large external debt and a heavy debt service burden. Domestic
demand was sustained by an excessive growth of public expenditures, which
in turn contributed to large balance of payments deficits. Price
distortions and regulated markets for agricultural and industrial products
discouraged the development of viabla small-scale private activity in the
secondary sector and hampered agricultural development as well.
B. Government's Adiustment Program
6.        Against this background, the Government launt-he- an adjustment
program in 1985 aimed at laying the foundation for sustained growth while
at the same time restoring the balance of payments to a viable position.
The adjustment effort was supported by successive stand-by arrangements
with the IMF in 1985, 1986 and 1987 and, after June 1987, by an IDA
structural adjustment credit of US$42.4 million, of which the final tranche
was released in October 1988. Subsequently, in May 1989 the IMF board
approved a three year ESAP for about US$68 million, and in early February
1990 the Bank's Board approved a credit of US$25 million for an Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Operation. While civil disturbances resulted in
considerable economic dislocation in early 1989, the Government reaffirmed,
in late February during the appraisal of the Public Enterprises Sectoral
Adjustment Operation and again during the preparatory discussions of the
PPP 1990-93, its ccomitment to the adjustment program.
7.        The adjustment process supported the Government's medium-term
objectives of (i) reaching an annual growth rate of about 3.5 percent; (ii)
containing the fiscal and external account imbalances; and (iii) preparing
the basis for sustainable growth and development. At the same time,
efforts were made to better identify and monitor the social impact of the
country's adjustment program and to design measures to provide safeguards
for the most vulnerable groups in society. Considerable progress has been
achieved since 1987 in implementing structural reforms. The processing



and marketing of local cereals was liberalized and all rice mills were
privatized. In the financial sector, substantial progress was achieved in
reforming the legal and administrative framework. The interest rate grid
was simplified and lending rates better reflect specific risks. Concerning
public resource management, the selection criteria for projects were
significantly improved, with the resulting projects integrated into an
annual consolidated budget. In order to further promote private
investment, the Ministry of Planning established a National Investment
Secretary to streamline the review of applications for investments licenses
and ensure their conformity with the newly introduced investment code. In
the area of fisheries, a new development policy aimed at protecting fishing
resources, avoiding overfishing, and increasing domestic value added is in
early stages of implementation. The effect of these measures was to double
the relative share of private investment in total investment beween 1985
and 1989. As a result, preliminary data indicate that real economic growth
in 1989 was higher than anticipated (3.5 percent against 3.2 percent
forecast). This growth has been the result of higher output in the mining,
crops and livestock subsectors.
C. Economic and Social Impact of the Adjustment Process
8.        During the period of implenentation of the adjustment process,
the macroeconomic performance of the economy was considerably better than
in the immediately preceding years. Real GDP growth rose from an average
of 0.2 percent per year during 1982-84 to an estimated 3.4 percent per year
during 1985-89. As a result of the adjustment policies pursued, the
overall fiscal deficit on a commitment basis declined from 4.5 percent of
GDP in 1985 to 0.1 percent in 1989. Helped by consecutive good harvests,
stable prices for the country's key imports, and strict credit control. the
annual rate of inflation, measured by the GDP deflator, fell from 13.6 in
1985 to 9.0 percent in 1989. Mauritania's external position has also shown
steady improvement, with food imports reduced in response to improved
incentives in the agricultural sector and favorable weather conditions. As
a share of GDP, the current account deficit (excluding official transfers)
declined from 26.2 percent in 1984-85 to an estimated 13.6 percent in 1989.
9.        During this period, the Mauritanian economy witnessed a shift
towards a more decentralized and market-oriented structure, with improved
efficiency in public resource management. Quantitative import restrictions
and price controls have been mostly removed so that prices move more freely
with supply and demand. There is today much more private activity in all
economic sectors especially in processing and marketing of agriculture
commodities and in fisheries. Strict budgetary discipline reversed the
consolidated government deficit (including foreign- nanced investments)
from -1.8 percent of GDP in 1987 to a surplus of 2.3, percent of GDP in
1989; the number of civil servants was frozent and public investments were
cut from 22.6 percent of GDP in 1985 to 10.3 pertent in 1989. Interest
rates were kept positive in real terms, monetary policy was restrictive and
credit to the Government was maintained at its 1984 level through that
period.



10.       The need to take specific actions to mitigate the social costs
of adjustment in the short term was recognized by tne Government from the
beginning. Food aid and food-for-work programs have been an important
element in helping the most vulnerable groups in Mauritania to cope with
the social cost of adjustment. Furthermore, despite budgetary constraints,
the Government has protected basic social services, namely education and
health. Measures were also taken to increase employment and mitigate the
hardships of unemployment, espauially thosv brought about by the
implementation of specific adjubtment measures such as administrative
reform and the restructuring of public enterprises and cosuercial banks.
Furthermore, a Reinsertion Fund (FIRVA) was created with the aim of helping
young technicians and former civil servants to start small business
operations. Under the program, retrenchcd workers were provided with
employment counsellingt access to training and financial assistance for the
establishment of small businesses in priority sectors.
11.       A 'Priority Action Program' (PAP) identifying a number of short
term projects targeted to the most vulnerable social-economic groups was
prepared under the SDA initiative. These projects included cowunity
development initiatives, labor intensive actions at the municipal level,
health and nutritional actions, urban housing alleviation and micro-
enterprise initiatives. Following the civil disturbances with Senegal in
mid-1989, the Government prepared a two-year Reinsertion Program to assist
the estimated 160,000 returnees from Senegal to reintegrate themselves into
the Mauritanian economy. The PAP has been integrated in the Government's
reinsertion program, which is being financed with donor support, and would
provide returnees with training, and credit programs to assist them in
finding economic employment.
D. Medium Term ObJectives and Policies and Future Financing Needs
12.       Mauritania's third PFP which covers the period 1989-91 was
presented to the Committee of the Whole in May 1989, and Bank and Fund
staff are currently assisting Government in the preparation of a fourth PFP
for the period 1990-93. The PFP policy reform program, if implemented in a
full and timely manner, should permit the continuation of the levels of
economic growth and adjustment progress which have marked recent years.
Real GDP would grow at an average rate of about 3.0 percent over the period
1990-93. In response to the more favorable investment climate generated by
recent reforms, private investment would increase gradually from the 1989
level of 5.3 percent of GDP to almost 8.0 percent in 1993, and public
investment would rise from 11.4 percent in 1989 to 14.7 percent of GDP in
1993, primarily as a result of new inveetment in the mining sector.
Imports of goods and non-factor services would increase from 55 percent of
GDP in 1989 to 57 percent of GDP in 1993. This is due to stabilizing the
level of food imports and expected increases in imports of intermediate and
capital goods as a result of restructuring the public enterprise sector and
improvement in the incentive system. Exports of goods and non-factor
services are expected to decrease from 49.3 percent of GDP to 45 percent of
GDP over the same period. This is a result of a projected 10 percent fall
in iron ore exports in 1992 due to lower iron ore production and slow
expected growth in fish exports until 1992193 due to current operational



5-
difficulties. Mauritania's financial requirements during the period 1990-
93 are shown in the table belowt
Ikuritenie - Extrnal Financing
(UNe milI Ion.)
190    191    1992    1998 1990-1998
Current Acount Dit Ist 1/          12-.?   178.6   180.4   18.6   "0.2
(excluding inter, public transfd")
Increase In Reserve 2/              10.5    10.0    22.6    21.0    09.7
Scheled Debt Service               175.9   19860   204.5   178.1   762.1
multi laterlsl                    60.4    70.4   86.?    51.7   250.2
World Dank                      10.6    19.7    27.?    10.9    74.8
I81R                          14.8    17.3    24.9      7.9    64.4
IDA                            2.2     2.4     2.8      8.0    10.4
Iw                                19.5    1.8.     9.6     7.4    51.8
Repurchese                      14.5    12.0     7.t      5.9    40.8
Charge                           4.0     t.0     2.0      1.5    10.5
"on-Multi lateral.                97.7   112.0   109.0   114.0   488.8
Arrears Payment                    9.8     0.0     0.0     0.0     9.8
Gross Financing Requirnt           318.1   888.2   412.5   376.2  1492.0
Debt Rell Agreed Through 1969       12.6     0.0     0.0     0.0    12.6
Expeted Debt Relief t/             35.6    76.0  U88.      78.0   267.1
Requir ement After bDt Reletd      205.1   818.2   828.9   805.2  1212.4
Projected External Financing       202.4   250.0   288.8   220.0   914.5
Invetunt ProJet.                 110.0   177.0   178.6   177.3   650.0
Grants                          29.6    88.7    41.5    48.5   158.8
Loans                           66.4   130.8   187.0   138.8   497.5
Of which SUWI                 81.5   06.4    57.0    50.0   204.9
Adjustrent Financing              11.0    11.0     0.0     0.0    22.0
Grent. (otinancing)              2.0     2.0     0.0     0.0      4.0
Loans                            9.0     9.0     0.0     0.0    18.0
of whIch IDA  4/               9.0     9.0     0.0      0.0    16.0
IMF ESAF                          22.0    22.0    11.0     0.0   65.0
Direct Foreign Investment          3.7     4.0     4.5     4.5    16.7
Food Aid, Grants In Kind          47.7    44.0    89.8    89.0   170.0
Financing Gap (- Indicates surplus)    02.7    55.2    95.6    64.4   297.9
1/ naeuming fish experts stabilize at the 1968t leel
2/ increao roeervo to 8 months of Imports by 1998
8/ reschedling of all Arob bilateral debt 1991-1998
4/ excluding the propoeed credit
13.        As shown in the table above, the cumulative capital requirements
during the period 1990-93 are projected at US$1492.0 million.   This
comprises US$670.2 million of current account deficit (excluding public
transfers and interest payments), USS752.1 million of public debt service
(including IMF repurchases), and a US$69.7 million increase in reserves to
reach a level of three months of imports. Given the high debt service
ratio in Mauritania, around 35 percent in 1990 and 1991 before
rescheduling, it is likely that the country will receive additional debt
relief, particularly from Arab creditors, having benefited from the Dakar



initiative and other debt forgiveness in 1989. Debt relief is expected to
amount to US$267.1 million between 1990 and 1993.
14.       Mauritania expects to continue to receive substantial amounts of
foreign assistance on concessional terms from traditional multilateral and
bilateral creditors to finance external requirements of US$914.5 million
for 1990-93. Such assistance would be mainly in the form of project, and
nonproject, food, and commodity aid. Disbursements against existing and
expected comuitments of official grants and medium and long-term loans from
bilateral and multilateral creditors excluding the proposed operator, are
projected to total about US$727.8 million during 1990-93. These
disbursements include (i) US$55 million from the IMF under the ESAF; (ii)
adjustment financing of US$22.0 million, including US$18 million from the
IDA AGSECAL and US$4.0 million in cofinancing from other donors and (iii)
US$650.8 million for investment projects. Taking direct foreign investment
and food aid into account, there remains a financing gap of
US$297.9 million which would be financed through further debt relief,
additional official grants, and additional concessional loans from
bilateral and multilateral donors, Including IDA. The proposed credit
would fill approximately 162 of ttk 1990-93 financing gap.
PART II - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Sector Size and Performance
15.       After independence, Mauritania pursued a deliberate policy of
parastatal intervention to promote economic development. Such a policy was
viewed as essential, given the underdeveloped nature of resources and
markets and the absence of investible funds and entrepreneurial skills. As
a result, the parapublic sector grew rapidly in the 1960 and early 1970s.
Mauritania now has 80 public enterprises (Annex 7), of which 22 are of a
non-ccmmercial nature. 1/ The remaining 58 public enterprises, 40 of vhich
are majority owned by the Government, are involved in virtually all
economic sectors. They account for more than half of public investment,
and receive almost one-fifth of the credit disbursed through the domestic
banking sector. The PE sect-r also employs more than one-fourth of the
modern sector workforce, or provides for about 12,000 jobs.
1/   These 22 institutions classified as public enterprises are mostly
professional and administrative organizations. They include schools,
the university, a hospital and the offices of statistics,
agriculture, fisheries and geological research. They received about
US$19 million in subsidies in 1988 and will continue to be funded at
that level by the public budget for the foreseeable future.



- 7 -
16.       Twelve enterprises account for over 95 percent of 8818e and
about 75 percent of employment in the sector. 21 Overall PE sector
performance reflects the performance of these large enterprises. It has
been characterized by high losses, mounting arrears, a rising debt burden,
increasing illiquidity, and reliance on monopoly privileges. (See para 31)
The causes of poor performance have been rapid changes in the external
environment, poor investment choices, weak management, lack of financial
discipline, and inappropriate and ill-defined relations between the
Government and the PEs.
B. Mauritania's Experience with Public Enterprise Reforms
17.       The Government's medium-term adjustment program, initiated in
1985, included important reform initiatives specifically aimed at improving
the performance cs public enterprises and encouraging private sector
activity. These initiatives were supported by a Structural Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 1812 MAU), a Rehabilitation Project for SNIM, the iron ore
mining company (Ln.2643-MAU), a Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 1414 MAU), and a  Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1567-MAU). Reforms were undertaken in five
main areas: (i) improvements in the legal and institutional framework for
the public enterprise sector; (ii) revisions in the incentives policies;
(iii) restructuring of the banking sector; (iv) rehabilitation of
individual enterprises; and (v) introduction of other measures to
rationalize and improve the efficiency of the sector. These are further
discussed below.
18.       Institutional and legal framework.  Important improvements in
this area were introduced in 1984 and 1985. First, a law was approved that
clarified the legal status of the public enterprises and the responsibility
in the Government for supervision and control. Public enterprises were
reclassified in three distinct categories: professional and administrative
enterprises (EPA); industrial and commercial enterprises (EPIC); and
enterprises of mixed public--private ownership (SEM). Second, all EPIC's
and SEM's were required to keep their accounts in conformity with a new
budgetary and accounting system ('Plan Comptable National,) and report
their financial results on a quarterly basis to a special division in the
Ministry of Finance, in charge of monitoring the financial performance of
the PE sector. Currently about 30 enterprises, including all major ones
are reporting regularly, but the speed of reporting and quality of data
needs to be ixproved. Third, a special unit, *Cellule de Rehabilitation du
Secteur Public" (CRSP), was created to oversee specific parastatal reform
programs. This unit also undertook several studies, financed by IDA, on PE
salary policy and structure, budget procedures, information systems, and
training. Finally, under the SAL, two enterprises were required to
conclude performance contracts ('contrats plan') with the Government,
21    Tne twelve most important PEs, in terms of sales and employment, are
SNIM (iron ore), SMCP (fish exports), SONIMEX, (imports of tea, sugar
and rice), MAUSOV (fisheries). SMCPP (petroleum distribution),
SONELEC (water and electricity utility), OPT (post and
telecommunications), PANPA (Port of Nouakchott), AIR MAURITANIE,
ALMAP (fisheries), SOMIS (sugar processing) and SMAR (insurance).



specifying the objectives assigned to them, respective obligations of the
management of the enterprises and the Government to achieve these
objectives, and the criteria for monitoring the performance of the
enterprises. The first of these performance contracts was signed in
February 1989 with the power and water utility, SONELEC, which has yielded
some good results.
19.       Incentive policies.  Mauritania's reform program included
specific measures to improve the structure of incentives facing both public
and private enterprises. The number of industrial and comercial imports
subject to price controls has been reduced by two thirds, with remaining
price controls planned to be abolished during 1990. Moreover, the number
of locally manufactured products subject to price certification has been
cut from nine to three. Government has also abolished import licenses and
import quotas and has begun implementing a second phase of its tariff
reform. A new Investment code adopted and implemented together with the
new tariff code in 1989, streamlined investment licencing procedures and
encouraged labor intensive and export oriented industries and created a
one-stop window to process applications for new investments. A
particularly encouraging development was the private sector response to the
recent liberalization in the cereals subsector. The private sector is
rapidly replacing the public sector in land development for agriculture as
well as in the production, processing and marketing of cereals. The role
of the cereal marketing board (CSA) has been redirected to include only the
distribution of food aid and direct purchasing in isolated areas where no
private sector alternative exists.
20.       Banking reforms. Beginning in 1985, and under the SAL, the
Government and IDA agreed on a banking reform program which focussed on
three main areas: (i) reforming credit policies and bank regulations; (ii)
strengthening of the Central Bank; and (iii) restructuring four (government
owned) of the seven commercial banks. Overall progress on the banking
reforms has been satisfactory. A new banking law has been enacted,
prudential banking ratios are being applied, a new and uniform accounting
plan has been established, the Central Bank's supervisory function over the
commercial banks has been reinforced, performance contracts for each of the
commercial banks have been prepared, and the collection of loans in arrears
has improved.   With respect to the restructuring of the four ailing banks,
one has been fully privatizised, another has been merged with a government
fund and the new bank has now signed a twinning contract with a foreign
bank. The two other banks have been merged and the Mauritania private
sector has already subscribed to 22 percent of the equity of the merged
bank. These reforms give the banks the autonomy they need and are expected
to remove one of the main props supporting inefficient public enterprises.
It would also make greater credit available for productive investments.
21.       Enterprise rehabilitation and restructuring.  Since 1985, five
public enterprises have been the target for programs of physical and
financial rehab'litationt the iron ore mining company (SNIM), the power
and water utility (SONELEC), the postal and telecommunications agency
(OPT), the port of Nouakchott (formerly EMN, now PANPA) and a rural
development agency (SONADER).



22.       Rehabilitation of SNIK. Iron ore mining In Mauritania began in
the mid-1960. with the successful development of a high-grade iron ore
deposit (Kedia) in the northern part of the country, financed in part with
a US$66 million Bank loan. Faced with the gradual depletion of this
deposit. SNIM in the early 80. undertook the development of a large new
low-grade iron ore deposit (Guelbs), that was expected to ensure its long-
term future. (More detailed information on SNIM is provided in Annex 8).
Unlike the Kedia ore, the Guelbs ore needs to be upgraded to be marketable.
The upgrading i. done in a beneficiation plant, which uses a uniqua, dry
magnetic separation process. The Guelbs project, consisting of a mine,
beneficiation plant and associated infrastructure was completed at a cost
of US$500 million and supported by financing from several donors, including
the Bank with a loan of US$60 million. 31 The processing of Guelbs ore,
which began in 1985, has been plagued by technical problems. The plant's
present output is only about 2.0 million tons a year, or 33 percent of its
design capacity. In 1985, supported by a Bank loan of US$20 million, SNIM
undertook a major rehabilitation program to reduce costs and improve the
company's organization and management. SNIM's workforce was reduced 11
percent when 1,000 workers were laid off in March 1987, cutting overhead
costs by about 30 percent. As a result of these cost reduction measures
and productivity improvements, SNIM's average unit cash operating costs are
about US$9.5 per ton of iron ore, a level comparable with its major
competitors and about 20 percent lover than 5 years ago.
23.       Despite these rehabilitation efforts, SKIM's financial position
has not improved as expected, because of low iron ore prices, the decline
in the dollar's value, and SNIM's inability as yet to put its Guelbs plant
an full production. In current ECUs, the price of iron ore was 40 percent
lower in 1983 than in 1985. SNIM's sales contracts are denominated in
dollars, but about two thirds of its supplies (from Europe) and half of its
total outstanding external long-term debt of US$340 million equivalent
(mainly for the Guelbs project) are denominated in currencies other than
the dollar. 41 In 1988, SNIK operations generated a cash flow of about
US$31 million but its debt service was about US$53 million resulting in a
cash deficit of about US$22 million, as can be seen in the table below:
31   To reduce their financial risk, the Bank and its co-lenders,
established a security system by which proceeds from the sale of iron
ore are channeled into a trust fund and allocated as a matter of
priority to debt service payment.
41   Although SNIM has made payments totaling about US$40 million on the
US$60 and US$20 million Bank loans, the current value (April 30,
1990) of debt outstanding is still about US$54 million.



- 10 -
SNIMi Selected Indicators and Ratios 1987-1989
1987        1988        1989
Sales Volume (million tons)                  9.0        10.0        11.1
Average Ore Revenue, US$It                  15.1         13.7         5.5
Average Cost of goods, US$It  *1            11.2         10.7         9.5
............ ..   . USS million.
Total Revenues                             145.7       145.3        183.5
Total Production Costs  Sl                 122.3       122.6        159.6
Net income                                 (11.8)        (4.9)        3.5
Gross Internal Cash Generation              38.4        31.0         77.8
Debt service                                62.0         53.2        56.6
Net Internal Cash Generation               (23.6)       (22.2)       21.2
Investments                                 20.1        16.1         33.4
Accumulated Cash                           (12.3)       (18.5)      (10.3)
Ratiost
Current Ratio                                0.7         0.6          0.7
LTD Debt Equity Ratio                        1.7         1.6          1.4
Debt Service Ratio                           0.6         0.6          1.4
*f before depreciation and interest
In 1989, because of increased sales, productivity improvements and
substantial debt relief, SNIM's recorded a modest net profit but its
financial situation remains nonetheless critical. The various security and
trust arrangements put in place for the Guelbs project in 1979, have
assured that debt service payments to lenders were promptly met. But to
accomplish this SNIM had to resort to overdraft financing and has been
rapidly building up its accounts payable to be able to continue operations.
By the end of 1989, SNIM's current ratio was still only 0.7 and its current
liabilities had risen to US$134 million (excluding the current portion of
long-term debt), of which about two-thirds represented bank overdrafts and
money payable to suppliers, insurance companies, and the Government in
social security dues and worker-retained income taxes.
24.       Rehabilitation of other key public enterprises.  Early in the
1980's, essential public services in Mauritania neared collapse because of
years of neglect, poor maintenance, deficient financial management, and
inadequate tariffs. Emergency rehabilitation programs were prepared for
thrt  key enterprises -- SONELEC, OPT, and EMN --and included as part of
the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
1567-MAU) financed by IDA in 1985.
S/   The increase in production cost in 1989 is because of an increase in
the depreciation charge for the Guelbs plant, following a management
decision, that 1989 was to be considered as the first year of
commercial production.



- 11 -
25.       Water and power.  In the cities of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou,
SONELEC's water and electricity generating and distribution networks have
been upgraded and services restored. Significant progress was made in
upgrading SONELEC's accounting and computerized billing systems. Accounts
were adjusted on the basis of external audits and SONELEC's accounts
receivables that were uncollectible were written off. Staffing was reduced
10 percent and tariffs for water and power were raised 35-40 percent. With
the assistance from the ADB and FADES, SONELEC recently commissioned a new
28 MW plant in Nouakchott, which will help reduce further operating costs
and in the long run, reduce tariffs. The performance contract that was
signed between the Government and SONELEC in February 1989, clarifies and
rationalizes their financial relationship, in particular with regard to
SONELEC's long term debt, the need for a capital increase and Government's
obligation to pay for water and electricity services. It also virtually
eliminated government interference in SONELEC's daily operations. In 1989,
SONELEC met the objectives set for billing and collection and savings in
the order of UM 300 million were realized. As a result, operating losses
were reduced from UM 536 million in 1988 to UK 182 million in 1989.   It is
expected that SONELEC will receive an operating subsidy for the last time
in 1990, and that thereafter, would operate without direct or indirect
Government subsidies.
26.       Port facilities.  The PE Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project concentrated on providing equipment and technical assistance and
improving the financial position of the port au':hority responsible for the
existing wharf in Nouakchott (EMN), while a new deep-water port was under
construction with assistance of the People's Republic of China. EMNNs
staff was cut 25 percent, tariffs increased 25 percent, working methods
improved (by revising shifts and work hours), and productivity more than
doubled. As a result, EMN showed a profit in 1987 and paid off its
accumulated arrears. In the same year, the Government decided to create a
new public enterprise (PANPA) to operate both the old wharf and the new
deep-water port, which had started operations. The transition did not go
smoothly. Rather than transferring part of personnel from the old wharf to
the new port, an entire new staff was recruited. As a result of over
staffing and inefficient stevedoring, PANPA suffered a net loss (after
depreciation and financial charges) of UM 199 million in 1988 and an
estimated UM 2/0 million in 1989. 6/
27.       Post and telecommunications.  So far, efforts under the PE
technical assistance project to improve post and telecommunications
services have been modest, and were aimed mainly at the introduction of a
new accounting and budgeting system, including the separation of
telecommunications and postal accounts. While in this area reasonable
progress has been made, the implementation of other elements of the
rehabilitation plan approved in 1987 has suffered. The review of the
6/ A preliminary analysis has shown that it is more economical to
rehabilitate the old wharf rather than modifying the new port facilities to
enable it to handle small vessels that carry a large part of the general
cargo to the capital. The rehabilitation costs are estimated at about
US$4 million and is expected to be financed by the European community.



- 12 -
organizational and personnel needs of the company has not yet started and
introduction of a new computerized accounting and budgeting system is
facing problems because of acquisition of inadequate and incompatible
software. Much remains to be done in separating the accounts between the
postal and checking systems and the postal savings bank, on improving bill
collection and coordinating OPT's investment projects. Moreover, OPT has
been asked by the Government to implement a number of investment projects
which are not viable, although OPT is expected to service the debt
associated with these investments.
28.       Rural development.  Under the Rural Sector TA Project, a first
phase restructuring of SONADER was undertaken in 1985 with a view to
streamlining operations and divesting functions that could more
appropriately be handled by the private sector. A second phase will be
undertaken under the agriculture adjustment operation recently approved by
the Board (February 1990), which will include reducing current expenditures
and reinforcing its investment selection practices. SONADER has already
reduced staff by 10 percent and increased water charges for irrigation by
15 percent with a view to completely recover 0 & H costs in the future.
29.       Sector rationalization.  Besides making efforts to rehabilitate
the utilities, the port and the rural development agency, the Government in
addition, prepared a rationalization plan for the sector which was only
partially implemented. Operating subsidies to PEs were reduced and arrears
of some PEs were paid. The Government monopoly on the import and
distribution of pharmaceutical products was eliminated and the private
sector has effectively taken over this function. Similarly, the State's
monopoly on the import and distribution of petroleum products and urban and
inter-urban passenger transport was abolished.
30.       While the full impact of the above reforms will be not known for
some time, it is already clear; (i) that the benefits resulting from the
reforms undertaken have been overshadowed by the problems facing a few
enterprises in the sector, such as SNIM; (ii) that there are still major
weaknesses in the legal and institutional framework that need to be
addressed; and (iii) that more drastic measures are needed to rationalize
the sector if it is to function efficiently and profitably.
31.       Inadequate data preclude a complete assessment of the sector's
financial performance since 1984, but operating results of a number of the
more important PEs show that more than 60 percent of the public enterprises
incurred losses in 1988. Aggregate losses in 1988 exceeded US$25 million,
of which three enteprises, including SNIM accounted for US$16 million of
the losses. Moreover, half of those enterprises showing any profits, were
less profitable in 1988 than in 1987. Even more alarming is that a large
number of companies have their equity capital totally eroded, including
enterprises that are of crucial importance to the economy. To cover
expenses, number of enterprises resorted to short-term loans from local
banks further aggravating their financial situation as well as that of the
banks. The PE sector has, moreover, contracted a considerable amount of
external debt (US$520 million), or about one third of the public and
publicly guaranteed obligations, of which SNIM alone accounted for US$338
million. In fact, PE debt increased from 10 percent of public debt in 1983
to over 30 percent in 1988. Because of their poor financial performance,



- 13 -
some PEs have besn unable to service these debts. This is an increasing
problem for the Government because of the constant devaluation of the
OuguSya. Results of a cross-debt study show PEo owing considerable sums
(over US$40 million) to the Government, banks, and suppliers. Public
monopolies -- such as SONIMEX (rice, tea, and sugar imports) and SMCP (fish
exports) -- have been collecting important amounts of import and export
taxes (tM5.9 billion In 1989 or about US$71 million) but it is increasingly
evident that these Government revenues might have been higher and raised at
less cost to the economy without going through a monopoly.
PART III - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM
32.       Given the continued financial disequilibria in the sector, the
Government has formulated, in consultation with IDA, a Public Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP). This program is embodied in the
Goverwoent's letter on Sector Development Policy (Annex 4), key features of
which are summarized below and in matrix form in Annex 5.
A. Reform ObJectives
33.       The primary objective of the Government's Public Enterprise
Sector Adjustment, Program is to extend and deepen the ongoing reform
efforts, by completing the basic policy reforms that were supported by the
SAL and the PR technical assistance and rehabilitation project, and to
undertake other needed actions. These actions specifically aim:
(i)       at fundamentally modifying the legal and institutional
framework governing the sector so that privatization
of public enterprises would be facilitated, more
autonomy would be provided to enterprises and
financial control would be improved;
(ii)      financially restructuring key enterprises, including
SWDM, and Air Mauritanie; and,
(iii)     substantially reducing the state role by privatizing
and liquidating public enterprises and eliminating the
state monopolies.
34.       At the end of the reform period, the public enterprise sector ic
expected to comprise of the utilities, the ports and those industrial and
commercial enterprises which have been financially rehabilitated, such as
SNIM and Air Mauritania, as well as those enterprises that would be
operating on a profitable basis without subsidies or privileged access to
credit. As a result, losses that characterized the sector are expected to
disappear, internal and external debt reduced. arrears eliminated, the
number of people employed by the sector diminished, liquidity of the
banking sector restored, and in the longer run, tax receipts from the
sector increased. Similarly, state monopolies will have been suppressed,
thereby incressing competition and efficiency in the trade, insurance and
petroleum products distribution sectors.



- 14 -
B. Legal and Institutional Development
35.       Adoption in 1984 of a PE law was an important step in the right
direction. Experience with the law over the years, however, revealed
weakness in several areas, in particular with respect the classification of
enterprises and the relationship between the Government and the PEs.
Prior to credit negotiations, this law was substantially modified to allow
for increasing degrees of autonomy and to further streamline the
relationship between the State and the enterprises. Six EPICs have been
reclassified as EPAs because of the non-commercial nature of their
activities. A new category of public enterprises has been created known as
societe nationale (SN), consisting of those companies whose share capital
is wholly owned directly or indirectly by the State. This category, which
comprises of commercially oriented companies, such as the post and
telecommunications agency, and the water and power utility, is designed not
only to give more autonomy, but also to serve as a launching pad for the
privatization of state-owned enterprises, since shares can be sold to the
private sector without further approval from the Council of Ministers or
the Government. (See Annex 7) The statutes of the enterprises affected
will be modified not later than December 31, 1990.
36.       The revisions to the law also put an end to the practices
whereby management decisions within state-owned enterprises were, as a
matter of routine, subject to prior approval by Ministers. The
modifications to the law substitutes a more flexible procedure whereby only
a specified number of acts and decisions of state enterprises are subject
to state control. For the SNs and the majority Government owned SEHs, a
priori approval of the ministry concerned is required only with respect to
the composition of the procurement committee, the investment program, the
medium term plan and If a performance contract is to be signed. Similarly,
the law drastically limits the number of instances in which the State can
interfere in the management of the enterprises. Thus, the Government will
exercise its influence on policy and operations, like any other
shareholders, through its representation on the board of directors. Also
members of the board of directors will be appointed on the basis of their
personal competence and knowledge of the activities of the enterprises
rather than their function. Responsibility for daily operations will be
delegated to the General Manager. Finally, performance contracts,
(tcontrats plan') will be signed between the Government and public
enterprises to further define their relationship. In view of the progress
achieved in case of SONELEC, the Government has agreed as a condition of
disbursement of the second tranche, to sign performance contracts,
satisfactory to IDA, with Air Mauritanie and PANPA and to continue
implementation of OPT's Rehabilitation Plan. As was the case for SONELEC,
it will specify objectives, list obligations of both the Government and the
enterprise as well as specify performance criteria. As a condition of
third tranche release, a performance contract will be signed with OPT to
allow it to carry out its financial restructuring and to ensure
implementation of the updated rehabilitation plan. Within that framework
it is also envisaged to create a subsidiary that would combine the national
savings bank and postal checking services of OPT in order to facilitate
financial transactions and mobilize savings in outlying areas not served
directly by the banking system.



- 15 -
37.       While financial control of the EPA's will be exercised following
normal Government budgetary control procedures, all other PE's are obliged
to submit their budgets and accounts (which are to be kept in accordance
with the *commercial Mauritanian accounting system) to a special division
in the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for monitoring financial
performance of the public enterprise sector. To enable it to perform
better, the information system within the Ministry of Finance will be
improved, and the Ministry will assist the remaining PEs with the
introduction of the new accounting system and budgetary procedures. The
latter will be extended to all PEs before December 31, 1990. Towards the
end of 1991, the system will be evaluated to ensure its effectiveness in
responding to the Government's need for PE data. The new procedures,
together with strict enforcement of the requirements for timely submission
of audited financial statements and closer scrutiny of the investment
budgets, is expected to increase financial discipline in the sector.
C. Enterprise Rehabilitation and Restructuring.
38.       While substantial progress has been made on the physical
rehabilitation of the iron ore mining company (SNIM) and the water and
power utility (SONELEC), and some improvements achieved in the post and
telecommunications organization (OPT) and the port of Nouakchott (PANPA),
the financial problems of these and other strategic enterprises are only
now being fully addressed.
39.       SNIM.  Despite the important efforts at rehabilitation, SNIM's
financial position remains critical. Its cost savings measures have enabled
it to generate a substantial positive cash flow from its operations over
the last three years, but because of debt service obligations (mainly on
Guelbs related debt) its net internal cash flow was negative in 1987 and in
1988. Only in 1989, because of continuing productivity improvements and
debt relief from France amounting to about US$ 13 million, SNIM's net
internal cash generation amounted to USS 21 million. Thus, for the first
time in years, SNIM recorded a modest profit of US$3 million in 1989.
40.       Although SNIM's financial performance has recently improved, its
financial situation remains critical, with current liabilities amounting to
US$ 134 million and its current ratio at 0.7.  The past rehabilitation
efforts supported by the Bank and other donors have focussed on SNIM's
productivity improvements and the implementation of the action program for
the Guelbs plant. Lenders have very much supported SNIM's rehabilitation
efforts by providing financing for improvements and rationalization of
production capacity at relatively concessional terms. However, despite the
good progress with the implementation of the productivity improvements and
other measures, SHIM's survival in the long-run is still not assured.
41.       Prospects for SNIM's continued operations in an economic fashion
have brightened with the discovery of a high grade iron ore body at nearby
M'haoudat which in 1994 would replace the depleting reserves of Kedia.
Development of this deposit, together with increased production at Guelbs
would allow SNIM to produce about 10 or 11 million tons of iron ore a year
for the next 15 years. It is at the same time vital that SNIM be
financially restructured, so that it can sell iron ore at prices that are



- 16 -
competitive internationally. The objective of the financial restructuring
is to generate a level of cash resources to ensures (i) adequate level of
mining operations with reasonable levels of working capital; (ii) the
retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced xanagers and staff,
including expatriates; (iii) that debt service obligations are met and that
expensive long-term debt is reduced; and, (iv) that SNIM can make a
reasonable contribution to its future investments. including K'haoudat.
These actions which are described In detail in Annex 8 are further
discussed below:
42.       Guelbs production and other productivity improvement.  While the
Guelbs mine is a modern low cost and efficient operation, which from the
beginning produced as planned, the availability of the beneficiation plant
has only reached 33 percent. Extensive pilot plant testing and careful
engineering have not been able to avoid errors in designing the plant's
process, in particular in relation to the big dry grinding mills, the heart
of the Guelbs plant. Key equipment has shown mechanical and electrical
failures in excess of normal expectations. These are risks inherent to
similar projects in the industry, in particular if a prototype process and
plant is involved 7/. In addition, dust generation at the mills and major
transfer points became a major hazard for plant operation. With
assistance from experts, who played a key role in starting Carrol Lake, the
only other plant comparable to SNIH's, an appropriate action program was
formulated, which is currently being implemented. The program includes
steps to reduce dust leakages, modification of the mill air circuit, better
mill load control, as well as changes in material flows. SNIM has also
made wide ranging managerial changes. As a result of these actions, which
will be completed by mid 1991, it is expected that at least SOX of the
plant availability and the hourly throughput rate, as originally envisaged
in 1979 during the project appraisal, will be achieved. Apart from the
implementation of the Guelbs action program, SNIM is looking for further
possibilities to improve maintenance, spare parts management and
purchasing. SNIM also intends to engage the services of investment bankers
to help them deal effectively with changes in exchange rates, iron ore
prices and interest rates.
43.       M'haoudat.  The development of the M'haoudat mine is needed to
replace the depleting resources at Kedia and allow SNIM to maintain its
production level at a rate of 10 to 11 million tons per year. Reserves at
M'houadat are estimated to be a minimum of 80 million tons and the cost of
developing the mine is estimated at about US$ 160 million, including
physical and price contingencies. The feasibility study on the project has
been audited by a well known mining consulting firm which found the
exploration and preparation work compatible with accepted international
standards. Geology, mining methods, ore crushing and handling are very
similar to the Kedia operations for which SNIM has accumulated vast
7/ Dry grinding mills similar to SNIM's are only existing at Carrol
Lake, in Canada, where it also took a relatively long time to reach
full production. At the time when the Guelbs plant was designed,
Carrol Lake was in the start-up phase. A full transfer of experience
was therefore not possible.



- 17 -
experience and demonstrated good managerial capabilities. Based on present
iron ore price projections and conservative assumptions on production,
implementation delays and operating costs, the economic rate of return on
the project is calculated at 12 percent. A drop In iron ore prices by 5
percent would reduce the rate of return to 9 percent. An increase in
production of the mine to 7 million tons per year, which is feasible,
increases the return to 16 percent. During a meeting of cofinanciers in
February 1990, Arab, French and European dono.s and the African Development
Bank have indicated their willingness to support the development of the
project by providing the necessary financing. Implementation of the
project is expected to begin in 1991.
44.       Financial restructuring.  The objective of the financial
restructuring, of which the principles were approved in a donors meeting
held in Paris on February 28 end March 1, 1990, is not only to ensure that
the financial burden resulting from the difficulties of the Guelbs iron ore
project are substantially reduced by providing further debt relief, but
also to restore SNIM's working capital position and enable it to maintain
its current production levels in the long-run. The financial restructuring
takes therefore into account the need for SNIH to make a substantial
contribution (about US$34 million in 1990 dollars) towards the cost of the
new M'haoudat mine. This is essential for maintaining SNIM's debt service
and debt equity ratios at acceptable levels in the long-run. The need to
maintain these ratios has been one of the principal factors for determining
the amount of additional financing required. Apart from the continued
emphasis on productivity improvements, the proposed financial restructuring
would be achieved through a combination of: (a) debt relief from France and
Japan; (b) capitalization by the Government of past taxes and other
liabilities; (c) an increase in SNIM's share capital; and (d) the provision
of a restructuring loan at relatively concessional terms. While France and
Japan have agreed to provide substantial direct debt relief and debt
rescheduling, SNIM's remaining creditors which are mostly multilateral and
include IBRD, EIB, ADB and various Arab funds cannot do so. Hence, the
Government has agreed to provide SNIM a part of the local currency
counterpart funds of the proposed PESAP as equity contributions. Also, the
Arab donors have agreed to provide assistance equivalent to TJS$50 million
to the financial restructuring. A condition of credit effectiveness is the
signing of a financing agreement between the Government and SNIM
satisfactory to IDA. The proposed capital increase and restructuring loans
will enable SNIM to eliminate its short term debt and retire some of its
most expensive long term debt prior to maturity. The proposed financing
plan for SNIM's financial restructuring, part of which has already been
provided in 1989, is as followst
USS million
Provided in 1989        ProRosed
1. Japanese debt relief and rescheduling          -                   21.7
2. French debt relief and rescheduling           12.6                 29.2
3. Government tax capitalization                  7.8
4. Other Government capitalization                8.2
5. Restructuring loan from Arab funds                                 50.0
6. Capital increase                                                   69.0
28.6              169.9
Grand Total                    198.5



- 18 -
In addition, avoided interest costs as a result of debt cancellation amount
to US$ 7.8 million for the Japanese loans and UJS$ 12.3 million for the
French loans over the period 1989 to 2005. SKIM would first use the
available funds to normalize its working capital situation. This would
include paying off its bank overdraft and settling of the the remaining
obligations to the Government, and allow SKIM to bring its credit from its
supplier to normal industry standards (initially 90 days, there after 60
days).  The additional equity would also ensure that SKIM would continue to
be in a position to service its remaining long term debt and provide it
with a hedging cushion against foreign exchange and other risks. It is
currently anticipated that about US$15 million of SNIM's *cash reservet, be
used to retire in 1991, prior to maturity some of its long term debt, which
was provided at relatively high interest rates. Other loans with
relatively high interest rates (loans from the IBRD, EIB and ADB) will be
fully repaid by 1994. The donors concerned have agreed to the principle of
prepayment of part of the relatively expensive long term debt, but formal
approval needs to be obtained by SNUM. A larger prepayment of debt might
be desirable if SNIM's financial situation has improved more than currently
anticipated.
45.       As a result of the implementation of the above interdependent
actions, SN3M's financial health will be restored and the economic life of
iron ore mining in Mauritania will be substantially extended. SNIM's
current ratio would increase from 0.7 in 1989 to 3.8 in 1995, while its
debt equity ratio would go from 1.4 to 0.9 in the same period, as can be
seen in the table below:
SNIM Selected Indicators 1989-2000
1989   1990   1991   1992   1995   2000
Sales Volume (million tons)  11.1   11.0   11.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Average Ore Revenue, USS/t   15.5   16.1   15.7   15.3   14.0   14.3
Average Costs of Goods Sold a/9.5    9.8    9.9   10.5   11.0   11.5
...# ....... Constant US$ million....
Total Revenues               183.5  185.6  181.8  162.0  147.8  150.5
Total Production Costs       159.6  149.4  147.7  142.0  151.1  148.5
Yet Income (loss)              3.5   19.9   18.7    4.8  (15.3)  (5.4)
Gross Tnternal
Cash Generation              77.8   78.0   72.6   56.5   37.4   35.3
Debt Service bI               56.6   77.2   62.6   48.6   29.6   32.3
Net Internal Cash Generation 21.2    0.8   10.1    7.9    7.7    3.0
Investments                   33.4   31.3   66.4   57.5    7.0    5.0
Accumulated Cash             (10.3)   1.0   11.0   23.5   34.8   28.9
Ratios:
Current Ratio                  0.7    1.4    2.6    2.7    3.8    3.1
LTD Debt Equity Ratio          1.4    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.6
Debt Service Ratio             1.4    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.1
a/ Before depreciation and interest
hi Includes in 1990 French debt cancellation of US$29.2 aillion and in 1991
prepayment of US$15 million of debt.



- 19 -
The above financial projections have been prepared in constant dollar
terms, which presents a more conservative picture. This is justified
because of the commercial risks inherent to SNIMWs activity.
On the other hand, it tends to somewhat overstate the burden of SNIr's debt
service obligations. Also, in line with the most recent revisions of
commodity price forecasts made by the Bank (January, 1990), the financial
projections are based on iron prices remaining fairly stable in real terms
until 1991, but declining thereafter by about 12 percent. It is only in
the year 2000 that iron ore prices are assumed to recover to a level of 10
percent below the 1989 price level.
46.       These projections have been further tested as follows: (i) a 5
percent raduction in real terms of the price of iron ore, on top of the 12
percent decrease, assumed for the Base Case; (ii) a 5 percent reduction in
real terms of the price of iron ore, and an increase in production to 11
million tons per year; and (iii) maintaining the price of iron ore at the
1989 level throughout the projected period. The key results are presented
in the table below.
Sensitivity Analyses: Key Indicators (million US$)
Cumulative   1990 - 1995
M,i        (ii)          (iis )
Iron Ore     with           1989
Price     Product'-on     Price
Base Case  Down 52    increase        Level
Total Revenues             986      948         1004           1034
Net Income                  10     (28)            6             58
Net Internal
Cash Generation             26     (11)           23             74
47.       As expected SNDM's financial performance is highly sensitive to
variations in prices. A further 5 percent decrease in real terms on the
price of iron ore results in a cash deficit of about US$12 million or US$2
million a year. which is not disastrous and can be compensated by an
increase in production to 11 million tons, which is technically possible as
SNIM has demonstrated in 1989. A price decrease has a more dramatic effect
than a production decrease, a production decrease case has therefore not
been presented. A one year delay in the opening of the M'haoudat would not
significantly change the situation. Debt service ratios would be
considerably more favorable if iron ore prices remained at the 1989 level,
which then would even allow resumption of dividend payments and/or payment
of taxes or royalty fees.
48.       Timely implementation of SNDM's plans is important.  Therefore,
assurances would be sought that the second and third tranches would be
released only after a review takes place, focusing on whether satisfactory
progress has been made in implementing the operational program and the
financial restructuring plan, and whether the financial and efficiency
objectives have been attained. (See Annex 8, Para. 51) If necessary, and



- 20 -
if IDA agrees, actions would be postponed or now actions decided upon to
achieve the financial and efficiency objectives. As a condition of the
second tranche release, SNIM would also agree with IDA on a satisfactory
financing plan and project managements arrangements to develop the new iron
ore deposit at M'haoudat. The Government would also attempt to sell part of
its shareholdings in SNM to interested private sector partners.
49.       Air Mauritanie.  Air Mauritanie is the other enterprise that
will be the target of financial rehabilitation under the proposed
operation. Air Mauritanie, a company in which the Government is the
majority shareholder, plays a useful role in transporting goods and
passengers. Its fleet consists of two Dutch-built 70-seater F-28 jets and
some smaller planes, with which it services a number of domestic
destinations as well as a few cities in the region such as Bamako, Banjul
and Casablanca. Air Mauritanie has built a reputation as a reliable
airline. A recent management audit confirmed that, taking into account the
difficult operating conditions and market characteristics in Mauritania,
Air Mauritanie's operational efficiency compares reasonably well with
similar small airlines in the world. In 1989, its operating expenses were
less than US$ 0.1 per seatikm, a reasonable performance. Still, it is
losing money -- partly because of low domestic tariffs and servicing of
unprofitable domestic destinations, but mostly because of burdensome debts
it contracted in foreign currency. The depreciation of the Ouguiya against
the Dutch Guilder has inflated the company's long term debt and the
original debt of about DPI. 32 million in 1984, is still valued in Ouguiya
terms at about DPI. 30 million, in spite of principal and interest payments
of about DFL 16 million. In 1989, Air Mauritanie was able to cover its
operating expenses, but after financial charges and provisions for foreign
exchange fluctuations, it lost an estimated UM 650 million, and was unable
to meet its debt service obligations in spite of three Paris Club
rescheduling.
50.       Based on the recommendations of a management audit, the
Government has proposed a plan to restructure Air Mauritanie that will be
implemented in the context of the proposed PE program. This plan involves
an increase in domestic and international tariffs, a reduction in operating
costs (including partially freezing salaries) and the sale of one of its
smaller aircraft, improvement of the organizational structure, management
information and accounting systems. The Government also plans to sell the
President's plane and use the proceeds to help in the restructuring. Other
measures include the settlement of Government arrears, development of new
sources of revenue and further debt rescheduling. When implemented, these
actions are expected to put the airline on a sound financial basis. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained on the details of the plan, vhich are
to be reflected in a performance contract to be signed between Air
Mauritania and the Government as a condition of the second tranche release.
In the medium term, the composition of the fleet needs to be reviewed,
including the sale of existing planes and leasing of planes better adapted
to the physical and market conditions.



- 21 -
51.       Other Public Enterprises.  The rehabilitation of SONELEC will
continue with support provided by the proposed PE Institutional Development
and Technical Assistance Project prepared in parallel with this operation.
Similar support would be provided to other key enterprises in the energy,
transport and telecommunications sectors.
D. Sector Rationalization
52.       In the context of the PE operation, the Government has agreed to
undertake an ambitious rationalization plan which involves the following:
(i) Divestiture. The Government has agreed to divest enterprises
(SEMs) over the next two or three years, unless they demonstrate
that they are financially profitable (the financial criteria has
been agreed to during appraisal) and operate without subsidies
or other privileges. Already, prior to credit negotiations, the
largest manufacturing company in the country (SOMIS), which is
involved in sugar processing and employs over 450 persons has
been liquidated, as have three enterprises in the fisheries
sector
(SOFRIMA, MSP and SAMIP). Also, prior to credit negotiations,
the large stevedoring activity at the port of Nouakchott (PANPA)
has been privatized, and two small companies in the textile
sector (MIE and CNCH) will be privatized or liquidated. Also as
condition of negotiations, PANPA's personnel was reduced by over
255 persons. Plans are also well advanced to privatize the
state owned petroleum product distribution company (SMCPP) which
caters to more than half of the market in the country. The
Government has established a redeployment fund, to assure the
rapid settlement of severance pay obligations and to provide
additional financing to facilitate entry into the private sector
for PE employees losing their jobs as a result of the
divestiture program. (See paras 61 to 66)
(ii) DemonoPolization. In order to improve the efficiency and reduce
the costs to the economy, the Government has agreed to eliminate
the state monopoly on the insurance sector. At present, the
sector is dominated by one state-owned company (SMAR) which
operates inefficiently and does not provide all the services
needed. Similarly, the Government has agreed to eliminate its
monopoly on the imports and distribution of sugar, tea and rice,
with the monopoly on rice to be removed before September 1990.
This decision has proven particularly painful to the Government,
because the enterprise (SOMINEX) raises substantial tax revenues
(about US$40 million in 1988) and paid some hefty dividends to
the Government (about US$5 million in 1988) and to foreign and
Mauritanian shareholders. The Government has also agreed to
liberalize the petroleum products distribution sector by
modifying an existing law which restricts the entry of private
firms. Finally, the operating costs of the state monopoly for
fish exports (SMCP) would be capped. To eliminate losses, the



- 22 -
Government has sold all the fishing boats operated by SMCP as a
condition of credit negotiations.
(iii) Financial measures. Based on a cross-debt study and an
evaluation of the financing needs of key public enterprises, the
Government has prepared a plan for settlement of all major debts
and arresrs. The plan involves: (a) Government paying its
arrears to PES (net of offsetting PE arrears to Government); (b)
the Government honoring its guarantees for debts of enterprises
being liquidated; and (c) Government honoring its commitment to
fully pay in share capital due to key enterprises or meet its
commitment as part of a financial restructuring plan (SONELEC,
SMCP, OPT. Air Nauritanie and PANPA). About one half of the
arrears are to be settled from the counterpart proceeds of the
first tranche and the remainder from the second (See Annex 6).
Satisfactory progress in settling PE arrears in accordance with
agreed targets by the Government would be a condition for
release of the second and third tranches of the proposed credit.
Assurances have been obtained that there would be no new arrears
and that adequate provisions will be made in the public budget
for payment of services provided by the water and power utility
(SONELEC), the telecommunications agency (OPT), and for the
surveillance of fishing in Mauritania waters. In order to
facilitate financial transactions and mobilize savings in areas
not served directly by the banking system, the Government will
establish a separate subsidiary that would combine the functions
of the national savings bank and postal checking services in
OPT. In order to reduce the burden on the budget and costs of
public enterprises, the Government has agreed that staff from 14
enterprises would be reduced by 1,550 persons by the end of
1991, including those from enterprises being divested. This is
expected to increase profitability or limit losses of these
enterprises. It has also been agreed, in the context of the
AGSECAL to reduce staff and increase water charges so that O&M
costs are fully recovered.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History
53.       The origins of the credit stem from the Government's efforts,
dating back to 1983, to redress the situation of the PE sector. These
efforts were supported by a Rehabilitation Project for SNIM (Ln. 2643-
MAU), a Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1414-MAU), and a
Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
1567-MAU), which is almost fully committed. Although the PE Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project aimed to introduce wide reforms in
the sector and to rationalize and redefine relations between Government
enterprises, implementation of these broader measures progressed slowly or
not at all, because of inexperience, incompleteness of measures, weakness
in the institutional and legal framework, and delays in completing sector
studies. Also, the deepening degree of financial problems of enterprises



- 23 -
such as SNIM and Air Mauritanie over which they had little control, led to
little significant improvement in the performance of the sector. Moreover,
experience has shown that a technical assistance project is not the proper
vehicle for carrying out policy and institutional reforms.
54.       The present PE Reform program was prepared by the Government
with the assistance of consultants. Several diagnostic studies and audits
of selected PES set the basis for the restructuring of some enterprises and
the liquidation or privatization of others. A cross-debt study initiated a
year ago was completed in time for appraisal. Similarly, the Government
prepared a plan to reduce the social impact of the reforms and also a
program for the reinsertion of refugees following the border problems with
Senegal.
55.       The PE program was appraised in January 1990.  Negotiations were
held in May 1990; the Mauritania delegation was headed by His Excellency
Moustapha Ould Abeiderrahmane, Minister of Planning and Employment.
Supplementary data on the credit are provided in (Annex 3). The PE
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project was prepared,
appraised and negotiated concurrently.
B. Relationship of Proposed Credit to the Macro-Economic Reform Progra
56.       Mauritania's program for public enterprise reform constitutes an
essential element in its overall program for structural adjustment, as
outlined in the third year PFP covering the period 1989-91 which contained
specific macroeconomic targets. The program supported by the proposed
operation is fully consistent with the macroeconomic framework outlined in
that document. Implementation of the measures under the proposed operation
will both depend on adherence to the overall macroframework and be
essential to meeting overall macroeconomic targets. Thus, maintenance of
appropriate macroeconomic policies, consistent with the directives outlines
in the PFP, is a condition for releasing the second and third tranches of
the proposed credit. Since macroeconomic objectives for growth, inflation,
credit expansion and balance of payments (see paras 12-14) are currently
under review in the context of preparing a fourth year PFP for the period
1990-93, specific quantitative targets agreed in the updated PFP would
replace those in the previous PFP as the basis for macroeconomic reviews
prior to tranche release.
C. Effects of the Adiustment Program
57.       In the medium term, the structural improvements in public
resource management, the parastatal, banking, fisheries and agricultural
sectors should make it possible to gradually increase economic growth
without exacerbating existing strains on the budget and balance of
payments.



- 24 -
S8.       Scenario without structural adjustment.  A continuation of
policies that had been pursued before the adjustment program would entail
high costs for Mauritania's economy and population. GDP growth in this case
would be seriously limited by public finance and balance of payment
constraints . The availability of additional external financing,
particularly non-project aid, would be reduced due to bad performance.
Thi-s would constrain overall budgetary outlays, while the already large
unmet debt services would continue to grow dramatically. Delivery of
public services would be negatively affected and public investment severely
reduced, compounding the Inefficiencies of the public sector and reducing
long-term growth prospects. Reflecting external financing constraints, the
current account deficit would need to be smaller, thus constraining
imports. Despite lower growth and borrowing, the debt service burden would
reach unsustainable levels.
59.       Macroeconomic impact.  It is too early to link the Government's
adjustment efforts with specific macro-economic results such as higher GDP
growth rate or expanded exports. It is however possible to say that during
the period of implementation of the economic and financial recovery
program, the macroeconomic performance of the economy was considerably
better than in the immediately preceding years. Also, as a result of the
reforms implemented by the Government, the economy is no longer as
regulated as it was until late 1987. Quantitative import restrictions and
price controls have been mostly removed so that prices move more freely
with supply and demand. There is today much more private activity in all
economic sectors especially in processing and marketing of agriculture
commodities, transport, and in fisheries. Most important is the direction
of future change which the Government has spelled out in various policy
statements. The Mauritanian economy is set to become a more market-
oriented one with the Government's role limited to facilitating private
initiatives rather than one of controlling and directing the economic
activity as in the past.
60.       Impact on parastatal sector.  The direct effects of the PESAP
would be to encourage a favorable environment for improved PE performance
created by the adjustment program and to drastically reduce the number of
enterprises in the public sector to no more than a dozen companies which
would be financially healthy and operating in a normal competitive
environment without monopoly privileges, subsidies or privileged access to
credit. Under this program, the PE sector has already diminished in size
in relation to the rest of the modern sector, and state enterprises are
becoming more efficient, resulting from the reform of the incentive system
and improvements in the institutional framework. In particular, the
liberalization of prices and greater autonomy and responsibility vested in
enterprise management have resulted in improved quality of services and
financial results. The demonopolization measures are expected to increase
the efficiency of these enterprises and reduce the cost to the economy of
goods and services provided. The reforms in the banking sector will
dramatically improve the financial soundness of the banking system and
increase the availability of credit for private productive activities.
Since the program of financial restructuring and settlement of cross-debts
will be accompanied by more rigorous financial discipline, there would be a
reduction of the risk of a reappearance of arrears whose build-up
substantially hampered the functioning of the enterprises and of the rest



- 25 -
of the modern sector in recent past. Finally, the reduction of the
sector's size through privatizatlon or liquidation of selected public
enterprises would result in a better allocation of the scarce managerial
and financial resources among the remaining strateglc parastatals.
D. Social ImPact
61.       The country's structural adjustment program, of which this
operation is a key element, would allow a gradual improvement in living
standards in Maurltania mainly by reducing the drain on the banking system
and public finances.  In the absence of the adjustment program, living
standards would be curtailed significantly as a result of the reduced
availability of external resources and constrained imports. Prospects for
rapid increases in per capita income remain very limited however, given
population growth and the weak resource base.
62.       The restructuring of the PE sector does, however, have a direct
Impact on some social groups in the short term. Measures introduced to
reduce over staffing in enterprises will result in approxvimately 1550
workers becoming redundant, which represents just over 11 percent of the
total work force of the publlc enterprise sector, but 48 percent of the
workforce of the concerned industries and 46, percent of their combined wage
bill. The expected distribution of the affected workers is as follows:
some 150 are lower level managers or supervisors, some 700 are skilled
workers and 700 are unskilled workers.
63.       The time frsme in which the staff reduction programs are meant
to be implemented is quite short, with more than half of the redundancies
to be effected before Board Presentation in June of 1990, and the balance
by December 1990. While, on the one hand, this can be taken as an
indication of the Government's commitment to implement the reform program
in a timely and efficient manner, on the other hand, this process will
inevitably create social and political tensions, which will further
aggravate increased unemployment caused by the repatriation during the past
twelve months of returnees from Senegal, especially in the vicinity of
Nouakchott, where the effects of the public enterprise reform program will
be felt most acutely.
64.       Given the recent upsurge in private sector activity, and our
assessment of the prospects for continued private sector-based economlc
expansion, one can envisage that the workers affected under this program
will, within an acceptable time frame and with appropriate retraining, be
able to find employment ln the private sector. To facilitate this
transition and to compensate these workers for the loss of employment, the
program proposes to provide each worker with a package consisting of a cash
severance payment together with counseling and training to assist them
either in finding alternative employment, most in the emerging private
sector. The total cost of thls component is estimated at US$ 7 million and
would include severance pay, technical assistance, training, surveying and
collection of data started under the SDA initLiaIve.
65.       With regard to training and given the exLstence of a multitude
of programs In Mauritania offering a wide variety of courses sultable for



- 26 -
this group of workers, it will not be necessary to establish new
facilities. The PE program proposes instead to make use of existing
programs and facilities and to provide specialized counseling services to
laid off workers to assist them in a choice of training, corresponding most
closely to their qualifications, experience, and aptitudes. An IDA-
financed Education Restructuring Project (Credit No. 1943-MAU) is
supporting (inter alia) a restructuring and strengthening of technical
education and training programs aimed at ensuring that they are tailored to
the requirements of the potential growth sectors of the economy, including
fisheries, service industries, and small scale enterprises where studies
have shown there are shortage of middle-level technicians and skilled
workers.  Coursis are offered at three facilities (in Nouakchott, Nouadibou
and Boghe) in a wide variety of subjects, at the professional and technical
levels, including industrial and artisanal fishing, automotive mechanics,
gasidiesel engines, agricultural equipment maintenance and repair,
construction, industrial electricity, electro-mechanics, data processing
and management of small and medium enterprises. Capacity in virtually all
of these programs is thought to be adequate to absorb within the next 12
months the workers displaced under the PE adjustment program.
66.       In addition and following the civil disturbances with Senegal in
1989, the Government has formulated a Reinsertion Program to assist
returnees in finding employment and reintegrating themselves into the
Mauritanian economy. The Reinsertion Program, which is well funded, will
offer over a two-year period expanded technical and vocational training
which will complement those being developed under the IDA-supported
project, most prominently in the fields of artisanal fishing, construction
and mechanical skills, and small and medium enterprise management.
However, while the courses under the IDA supported project are open to all
Mauritanian applicants, the Reinsertion program, as presently conceived, is
intended to be available only to returnees from Senegal. With a view
toward avoiding costly duplication of efforts and diseconomies of scale in
equipment and facilities, assurances have been sought during negotiations
that training programs funded through the Reinsertion Program will be
available to all applicants including those displaced under the PESECAL.
This will also apply to the facilities for credit including the Reinsertion
Fund (FIRVA) is being expanded for the returnees with the assistance of
several Arab, French and other European donors. A small unit will be
established rithin the Ministry of Plan to inform and counsel workers in
their choice of training and in their choice of small enterprises to
invest. The Hinletry of Plan will also continue under this operation the
collection and analysis of baseline data on welfare, both at the houselhold
and community level.
E. Environmental Impact
67.       SNIM's mining operations have a low impact on the environment,
due to favorable geological and geographical conditions and the use of
modern mining equipment. There is relatively little waste material from
the mines, due to the low overburdenlore ratio. The material consists of
solid, inert rock and is deposited in a safe manner in rugged mountain
valleys next to the mine, in an uninhabited desert area without rainfalls.
The rejects of totally dry Guelbs beneficiation process are equally inert



- 27 -
and are stacked in low, safe benches with modern stacking equipment next to
the plant. Dust generation within the Guelbs plant is relatively high, but
a study carried out by the International Labor Organization, Geneva,
concluded that the health risk is acceptable. Moreover, the measures under
way to improve the plant availability will also considerably reduce the
dust load in the plant. SNIM is monitoring semi-annually the health of
staff employed in the plant and generally, the health record of the Guelbs
staff is good.
F. Benefits and Risks
68.       The main benefits of the reform program are (a) improved
operational efficiency in the sector as a result of the policy and
institutional reforms incorporated in the program and (b) a reduction of
the financial burden of the PE sector on the economy through a reduction of
the sector's size and improved PE performance. The benefits will manifest
themselves in the short term as reduced PE losses, greater credit
availability for productive activities, improved liquidity as the result of
cross-arrears settlement, improved distribution of goods and services
within the country as prices are liberalized and monopolies abandoned, and
improvement in the quality of services provided by restructured public
utilities. In the longer term, benefits will arise from the more
productive use of existing resources, and better public investment
decisions.
69.       Failure to proceed with the proposed restructuring could lead
SNIK to default on its loans (US$338 million) with serious consequences on
the country's ability to obtain financing in the future and on its efforts
to adjust. As a result of the restructuring, Mauritania would maintain an
important source of foreign exchange earnings and employment.  The net
foreign exchange earnings that SNIM has generated has been about US$40
million a year on average, a substantial contribution to the balance of
payments. SNIM is also an important source of employment. It employs 4500
persons (about 10 percent of modern sector employment) and provides work to
another 1,100 local laborers on a temporary basis. All in all, iron ore
mining activity provides the living base for the entire population of
Zouerate (50.000) and a major portion of the population of Nouadhibou
(70.000), Mauritania's two major population centers outside of the capital
city of Nouakchott. SNIN also spends over US$3 million a year to support
local schools, child care centers, dispensaries, a small hospital and
regional municipalities. It also provides about US$15 million of business
to some 30 local suppliers. SNIM also has the potential to contribute
between US$ 6 to US$ 10 million a year in taxes, largely in the form of
taxes on wages and salaries.
70.       The program is also expected to improve the organizational and
human resource base for sound PE management. Government's supervision will
be based on ex-post performance, whereas accountability and autonomy of PE
managers will be strengthened commensurately through performance contracts.
Controls will be streamlined and the direct supervision of PEs will be
gradually devolved or transferred to relevant technical ministries. The
program will also specially address the question of two problematic
enterprises, SNIM and Air Mauritanie; help intensify the reform efforts of



- 28 -
SONELEC, OPT and PANPA, in addition to the ongoing programs for other
enterprises. Given the size of the country and the undeveloped nature of
its road networks, it is essential that Air Mauritania contin.es to provide
the valuable service it has to date.
71.       The risk associated with the program is that, continued
liberalization of the economy and divestiture of public enterprises would
prove politically unacceptable. The difficult actions already taken,
however, show that the high level of government commitment to the program.
Another risk is the possibility that the adjustment program may prove too
demanding for the limited capabilities of the Mauritanian administration,
particularly in view of the number of people repatriated from Senegal. The
companion technical assistance project, however, is expected to help CRSP
and a unit in the Ministry of Finance implement the reform program. Also,
stroug support Is expected from SNIM, which has already shown its
counitment to the reform program. There is also the possibility of a
weaker than expected response from the domestic and foreign private sector.
The Government has already begun discussions with private investors who
have shown interest in investing in selected enterprises. Eliminating the
monopoly enjoyed by SONIMEX could threaten the almost US$40 million in
taxes and dividends that it produces for the Government. Hence, assurances
have been sought from the Government that it will reinforce the customs
service so that taxes will continue to be collected.
72.       With regard to SNIM, there is some uncertainty about the real
production capacity of the Guelbs plant. The assumption made here,
however, is conservatives that it will only reach 65 percent of its design
capacity. Furthermore, any shortfall in Guelbs production can be
compensated by increased production from M'haoudat by switching to three
shifts a day instead of two shifts as currently envisaged. Another risk is
the impact of the fluctuating value of the dollar and the international
price of iron ore on SNIM's finances. To mitigate against this risk, SNIM
plans to build up reserves to help tide it over any such crisis. Also,
under the proposed Technical Assistance project, SNIM will engage the
services of investment bankers to help them deal effectively against
changes in interest rates, exchange rates and the price of iron ore. The
risks associated with the development of M'haoudat are limited, because the
geology and mining methods are similar to the Kedia operations for which
SNIM has accumulated vast experience.
G. Credlt Amount
73.       The required financing of this adjustment operation would total
US$159 million, of which US$109 million would be quick disbursing balance
of payments support. It is proposed that the IDA contribution be US$40
million. Cofinancing in the amount of US$50 million is being sought from
the Japanese Government, US$5 million from the Spanish Go%ernment and US$4
million from the German Government, all under the Special Program of
Assistaose to Debt Distressed Countries (SPA).  In addition, it is proposed
that Mauritania be eligible for IDA reflows to be approved on an annual
basis, which would provide an additional US$10 million. Further
cofinancing in the amount of US$50 million would be provided by Arab donors



- 29 -
and would directly finance SNIM's foreign exchange working capital
requirements. The proposed operation, including cofinancing, would meet
some 16 percent of the country's external financing gap during the
credit's three year disbursement period. Local currency counterpart funds
generated by the credit and the cofinancing (excluding the Arab
cofinancing) would be used for the financial restructuring of SNIMl
(estimated at US$69 million equivalent) and other public enterprises(US$25
million), as vwll as for settlement of Government arrears (US$8 million)
and payment of indemnities to workers who lose their jobs (US$7 million).
(See Annex 6) SignIng of a financing agreement between the Government and
SNII satisfactory to IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness.
B. Monitorable Actions, Disbursement and Procurement
74.       The credit would be disbursed in three tranches, the first
(US$18 million) at credit effectiveness -- expected in July 1990, the
second in July 1991, (US$12 million) and the third in July 1992 (US$10
million). Three tranches have been provided to allow for adequate
monitoring of various reforms and activities that require more time to be
completed.
75.       The following actions have already been taken by the Government
under the proposed program:
(a) The existing PR law has been substantially revised to improve
the legal and institutional framework for the sector (pars 35).
(b) A large but unprofitable sugar factory, employing some 450
persons, has been liquidated (para 52).
(c) Five other defunct companies in the textile and fishing sectors
have been liquidated (para 52).
(d) Action plans for Air Mauritania, PANPA, SMOP, and SMCPP hWve
been discussed with IDA during negotiations (para 50).
(e) The excess personnel on the payroll of the Port of Nouakchot
have been dismissed (255 persons) and the stevedoring activities
of the port has been privatized (para 52).
(f) The monopoly of the Government on the insurance sector has been
removed (para 52).
(g) The petroleum products distribution sector has been fully
liberalized (para 52).
(h) The technical management of the Guelbs plant has been changed
(para 42).
(i)  The operating costs of the state monopoly for fish exports has
been capped (pars 52).



- 30 -
t3) All of SMCP's fishing boats have been sold (para 52).
(k) A cross-debt plan for settling of arrears has been approved by
the Council of Ministers (para 52).
76.       Disbursement of the second tranche would be contingent upon a
satisfactory review of macroeconomic performance to verify its consistency
with the performance objectives specified in the PFP, and satisfactory
progress in carrying out the program, in particular with regard to:
(a) divestiture (liquidation or privatization) of one half of the
enterprises (SEMs) that are not financially profitable (para
52);
(b) achievement of efficiency and production targets by SNDM (para
48. 51 of Annex 8);
(c)  finalization of financing plan and project management
arrangements to develop the iron ore deposit at Mvhaoudat
satisfactory to IDA (para 48);
(d)  implementation of the financial restructuring plans for SKIM and
Air Mauritanie, including signing of a performance contract with
Air Mauritanie and PANPA (para 36, 49 and 51) and the action
plans for SONELEC, and SMCP;
(e) reduction of 50 percent of the Government arrears with public
enterprises (US$4 million), (para 52);
(f) adequate provision in the budget for payment of services of
SONELEC, SMCPP and OPT and for the surveillance of fishing
waters off the coast of Mauritania (para 52);
(g) removal of SONDMEX's monopoly on rice imports (para 52);
77.       Disbursement of the third tranche would be contingent upon
satisfactory implementation of macroeconomic policies consistent with the
PFP's performance objectives anu satisfactory progress made with regard to
the following:
(a) divestiture (liquidation or privatization) of the remainder of
the enterprises that are not profitable (para 52);
(b) achievement of efficiency production and restructuring
objectives by SNIM, including further reduction of long-term
debt if SKIM's financial situation permits (para 49 and Annex
8);
(c)  elimination of the remaining Government arrears (US$4 million)
(para 52);



- 31 -
(d) making adequate provisions in the budget for services provided
by SONELEC, SMCPP and OPT and for surveillance of fishing
grounds para 52);
(e) removal of SONIMEX's monopoly on the remaining products (para
52)s and,
(f)  signing of a performance contract with OPT (para 36),  based on
the action plan a8reed with IDA.
78.       The Government of Mauritania would be the Borrower.  The Central
Bank of Mauritania (BCM) would be responsible for maintaining the credit
accounts and for submitting withdrawal applications and supporting
documentation to the Association. The Government would establish a Special
Account at the Central Bank in an amount equivalent to US$6 million to
facilitate disbursements. The account would be replenished regularly on
the basis of fully documented disbursement applications in excess of US$1
million which will include the report of findings of the import
verification agency (see para 79) together with the attendant documents or
on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE) for expenditures below
that amount except for transactions less than US$5,000. The proceeds of
the credit would be used to reimburse 100 percent of the CIF cost of
eligible imports on the basis of evidence that they were imported and paid
for not more than four months prior to credit signing. Retroactive
financing would be limited to 20 percent of the proposed credit. It is
proposed that not more than US$10 million equivalent each would be allowed
for imports of petroleum and food. Public and private sector imports
would be eligible, except for:
(a) negative list;
(b) imports of goods procured under contracts costing less than US$
5,000 equivalent;
(c)  imported goods already financed under bilatcral or multilateral
credits ard
(d) imported goods purchased in the local market.
79.       Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of
the funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process.
Contracts exceeding US$2 million equivalent would be subject to
international competitive bidding for both the public and private sectors.
For contracts below US$2 million, public agencies would follow standard
practices *ich have been found to be acceptable in the past.  The private
sector would follow established commercial practices , and, wherever
possible, a minimum of three quotations from eligible suppliers from at
least two countries would be sought. Direct contracting would be used only
for proprietary items or where compatibility with existing equipment would
call for standardisation. Procurement documentation would be maintained
for ex-post review by IDA. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Government will engage an expert agency to certify the quality,
quantity and price of each shipment of goods. The agency will be selected



- 32 -
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines dated August 1981 and would be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
80.       The Ministry of Plan would be responsible for monitoring
progress under the present operation. Following the disbursement of the
first tranche and before disbursement of the second and third tranche of
the credit, Government would submit to the Association reports evaluating
the progress made in the implementation. These reports would serve as a
basis for a progress review of the program which, in turn, would form the
basis for the release of the next tranche. Government would submit to the
Association a final report on the implementation of the adjustment program
upon full disbursement of the credit.
I. Administration and Auditing
81.       The PR adjustment program will be implemented by the Ministry of
Plan and the individual enterprises. It will be monitored by an existing
unit in the Ministry, "Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Publique
(CRSP). Because of the complexity of the tasks, CRSP will need continued
assistance from external consultants to carry out its functions. Such
assistance will be provided through the Institutional Development and
Technical Assistance Project to be processed at the same time as this
operation. With regard to auditing, the PE Institutional Development
Project includes provision for the external audit of both the PE Sector
Adjustment Operation and the PE Institutional Development and Technical
Assistance Project. Audit reports, conforming to internationally accepted
standards and prepared by auditors approved by the Association, would be
submitted to the Association annually.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
A. Bank Group Operations
82.       To date, the Bank Group has had thirty operations (three IBRD
loans, twenty-six IDA credits, and one IFC operation) in Mauritania, for a
total of $368 million. The three IBRD operations were for iron ore mining
operations ($66 million to MIFERMA in 1960, and $60 million to SNIM in
1979, for the Guelbs Iron Ore Project and $20 million for SNIM's
rehabilitation in 1985). The twenty-six IDA credits totalled $221 million,
and included two adjustment operations (SAL I and the AGSECAL), eight
investment projects in the agricultural sector, five in transportation
sector, three in education, two in the industrial sector, and six technical
assistance operations to support development and institutional improvements
in the agricultural, urban, public administration and public enterprises
sectors. In 1985, IFC financed an edible-oil refinery. The average Bank
Group's share in the external capital assistance received by Mauritania, on
a disbursement basis, amounted to some 7.6"r Iotween 1987-88.



- 33 -
B. Country Assistance Strategy
83.       The overriding aim of the Bank assistance program in Mauritania
remains the promotion of long-term growth with equity. Since 1985, when
the Government instituted its economic recovery plan, a main focus of IDA's
country assistance strategy has been to sutpport the Government's adjustment
efforts.  Following the completion of SAL _, economic and financial
disequilibria have been reduced and the economy has undergone a shift
toward market oriented resource allocption, with much less Government
intervention and a significant increase in private sector activity. For
the coming years the Bank's country assistance strategy for Mauritania will
continue to support this evolution towards increased private sector-based
economic growth and greater efficiency in the management of public
resources, including continued strengthening of policy formulation and
implementation capabilities.
84.       For the future, IDA assistance to Mauritania will be split
approximately equally between policy based and project lending during FY
91-93. This emphasis reflects both the fact that the Government's
budgetary resources are more constrained than investment financing, and
IDA's comparative advantage in supporting policy formulation. In tne
period of SPA-2, IDA will continue to mobilize the necessary donor
financing to support the adjustment program. However, since Mauritania
needs a mixture of project and policy based lending, IDA together with
other donors, will support selective investment operations, within the
context of coherent macro and sectoral policy frameworks. IDA will
influence the latter through public investment reviews in the context of
PFPs and SALs.
85.       With regard to structural adjustment at the macro level, the
first SAL operation to Mauritania, implemented in 1987-88, complemented
stabilization measures being supported by the DMF, with initial structural
reforms in seven principal areast (i) public sector management; (ii)
banking sector reforms; (iii) public enterprise reforms; (iv) energy; (v)
agriculture and rural development; (vi) fisheries development; and (vii)
private sector promotion. A second SAL would focus on supply side measures
to stimulate the growth of private sector production and employment. In
addition, SAL II would assist the Government in defining social development
objectives, including both short term measures to compensate the adverse
effects of adjustment and medium term measures to ensure an adequate human
resource base for growth ane an equitable distribution of the benefits of
such growth.
86.       In the agriculture sector, IDA's strategy involves (i) policy
and institutional reforms aimed at diversifying production and increasing
productivity in the sector; (ii) project support for expansion of
irrigation schemes and extension, research and training; (iii)
encouragement of private sector participation; and (iv) attention to
environmental protection issues and improved resource management. A
recently approved Agricultural Sector Adjustment operation is supporting
continued efforts in the key areas of liberalization of cereals marketing
and pricing policy, land tenure a..& institutional strengthening. These
activities complement on-going efforts under the Second Rural Sector
Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1414-MAU) approved by the Board in



- 34 -
December 1983, the Small Scale Irrigation, Project (Cr.1571-MAU) approved by
the Board in March 1985, the Second Livestock Project (Cr.1658-MAU)
approved by the Board in June 1987, and the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment/Investment Project (Cr. 2093-MAU) approved by the Board in
February 1990.
87.       In t'e education sector, the Education Sector Restructuring
Project (Cr. 1943-MAU), a sectoral adjustment operation signed on August
29, 1988, is helping to expand access to and improve the quality of primary
and secondary education. It is promoting cost-effective use of sector
resources and encouraging public policies to balance outputs from the
secondary and higher educational cycles with labor market demand.
88.       In the population and health sectors, sector work is ongoing
which will prepare for an FY92 project aimed at assisting the Governrent to
improve delivery of basic health and family planning services, and to
articulate an action oriented population policy. This will reinforce both
the priority which is ascribed to the development of human resources as a
critical element in long-term development and ongoing Bank efforts to deal
with the social dimensions of adjustment. Population and Health Sector
Memoranda have already been prepared and discussed with the Government.
89.       In the industrial sector, and in order to assist Mauritania's
efforts to diversify employment and sources of income, the Bank provided
financing (under the Urban and Rural Development Credit, 888-MAU and
through the Mauritanian Development Bank) to encourage private enterprise
development. A second Industrial Development Project (Credit 1572-MAU),
approved by the Board in PY85, is supporting these objectives by financing
studies to develop appropriate policies for improving sub-sector
performance and for further expanding tUe manufacturing sector. The
proposed Public Enterprise SECAL operation will provide support to continue
the restructuring of the public enterprise sector and to promote an
expanded role by the private sector in the economy.
90.       In the infrastructure sector, the Bank's recent interventions
have consisted mainly of highlighting the priority of maintenance
expenditures over new investments, in the course of the SAL I dialogue on
public investment programming and successive Policy Framework Papers. The
adequacy of planned support from other donors for financing key investments
and maintenance requirements in the sector was ascertained at the July 1989
donors's meeting.
91.       The Bank has also been actively involved in Mauritania's iron-
ore mining sector since 1963 by assisting SNIM, the Mauritanian mining
company.
PART VI - COORDINATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
92.       Since 1985, the Fund has supported Mauritania's adjustment
strategy with three successive stand-by agreements. A three-year
structural adjustment arrangement and the first two annual arrangements
thereunder in the amount of SDR 16.9 million were approved by the IMF in



- 35 -
September 1986 and November 1987, respectively. On the basis of the 1989-
91 Policy Framework Paper (PFP) considered by the Committee of the Whole on
May 12, 1989, the IMF Board approved access to the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility for SDR 50.85 million in 1989-91. A mid-term review
mission in October 1989 found that the macroeconomic program was being
satisfactorily implemented. A fourth Policy Framework Paper for the period
1990-93 is expected to be finalized by mid 1990. Cooperation between the
Bank and the IMF has been close, with continuous consultation and
participation of IMF staff in Bank economic and sector missions. This
cooperation will continue throughout the preparation of future structural
and sectoral adjustment operations.
93.       The nature of Mauritania's adjustment efforts, particularly for
the parastatal sector, calls for a highly coilaborative approach with those
donors supporting individual enterprises. Almost all the major donors have
been involved in financing SNIM's iron ore operations since 1979. A
donor's meeting on the financial restructuring of SNIM was held in November
1988 and a second one on the M'haoudat project in March 1990. In addition
the French, ADB, EIB, FADES and the Islamic Development Bank have been
involved in the rehabilitation of SONELEC, OPT, and the ports.
94.       To encourage more general aid coordination, a donor's meeting
for Mauritania was held in Paris in July 1989 to discuss the Government's
"Economic Consolidation and Growth Program, 1989-91' and the 1989-91 Public
Investment Program. At that meeting and at follow up meetings held in
Washington in September 1989, and in Nouakchott in January 1990, the
Government's plans to assist the returnees from Senegal were discussed.
All meetings were well attended and donors are regularly informed of each
other's activities.
PART VII - REC0MMENDATION
95.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed IDA Credit.
Attachments
Washington, D.C.                            Barber B. Conable
May 30, 1990                                    President



t t.  8 *W    9' 0-   9        Ct9-   tm 9C            AS-    O*i-lt   lw 
t's-    co     ae      C's?    6*A- 0B*                                      -'04 "            .   
C,.-    SC'-                    A' -   ??-  'S^-    oa0'-   39,   - t     t-9 It "                                            - hi 94 
8t    SC.    S O.    t0-      t0     *St1   'S1-     0Ci-     0l5    1rC19-          '        tv            Cva"q DIv-s oo
go     et       .'n    c's     ue       Ct     9'?                                     c         s           toaPOid la    inig
80     9'9    SC       ii       tS    t'S      Ct      9i 0I            0U gt    O     g         '0 &,8              160014. 6604
0'3    C't    C'S    I*S    Ol        a0      C's      't-    O0      *lit    *3t    e0       IS la*10-9" 6604
O S    90       '? O     0 tt    r 'o9 t g9    P sitCslpSU 90- 8As- 9't e0                                       9V    9 95    o0    A
SS~~~~~l             10    elf e-o         V's     O' *6 08          08   WOt    29-    Ol 0ft  do^18at
's     0w91-   9,S    C'st-   *90-  *pS       *'-                      '               '_093090 Ut 660
0'0    S'S     0i      *9      OCt   9e         C'9t-   5'S-    00-    0ot    a.-    'As             *w6.t"16  Postl
0's      0 Ale    Ala    I                     9it    el  I'l-   00'-    *'S-    Ole  slo-   1i't    I'm  s60;=09w all  In muo
a'l    soS-    WO      Co      0'?-      0     ble-    CC?    0'S      c's   85-  oo           %o0           %"JS*" e4.lm
s'S     00     Alt       L      S'S    Ol                                               IO 't  a 0s- St  O   UI4*0  0*4la
C'S    9C   g2p        CC      A'      et       ls     P'S     Ci      5-    C'S    **8        P'S                69b_tle3 @S
A'S     CI     00      CC       COt    St/     80      S'S    *@       00-    S0       St     tilPUm l3 60905
O' S     9             t' t s          OSe    *S-    PC        eS8-    0t      9II      *C     COt                am P0 0400!
e's    v's                       i       o     it      a'S   tI          Otp S           0     00              *           *0
00504600110wn"
C'S    S'S    IC       8'C     0'S      li    Ole   0         WV      a's    &,0.   i.e    tI                           001"At
OlO    Ole    0'Sl-'0          0'      0.    WV                                                                 ("tutut  A" *  t Iq P
_'     CC      C'SO    9'      0' 0     '      ti               .*             ..       '      '          Sium.qpq ipaa se)
a's    O*'     0i-    a'S       ti    ills   T*P       C*e-    Ie    tV          0     a'l      Ct                       h
C'     I'S     tt      P't    IC       8'?    *0-    C'S    i'        91      ti      *0       Vt-                   ^ w
e's    Ol      se      i.e     9        w                       ,t-  w I  ale                   09                   93IMgI0 t"N
**g     S'S    P'S     C'l   8al       9g9    *8l       Ci     r9C     O's    *'tl0              '       ' 08        6    0
-                                 ,,,- -,,,- ,,-,,--                    --
s-bet 8-AsMt  Sew        tOT:  0mOw    ota    SeCt    M5t    Mt          MST  4w5 t aIP-Mt et-a
sw     'so-    so-    V'S-    al e-       -    olot-  oV-   es-    0':-   0.m                0"hea   (494  660
C'?-    S'8-    05-    *S- sl     -    C'S-    CSl    P'S'   Oa-    S'P-    so,               156J 9w0.       t v"
''  ''     CC-    SI-    C'C-    I'-    C'S-    S'C-   @'C    09's   *S-    CC-    C'C-                     6tI J06 S
s      s's     c's     'Ss     cw      *,      ,'ew    a's .:          8t-     a       5'S0    t'JS           Ca    19 6
roo'ss.  oi'u 9 e  o'                                                                                                         9 A  sA  v  t I W'  Ss  e og  9  o 4  66609     -e 9604
0+eSStrs5C    I'l   *t3  -'s    -'S    -                       - -                                               -t I*619   6J
co ot   'O Ot   Out   O OOt   O        ct OOOt   -     --      --      - 0 0                   --              m_! *1, _- D6.
A'St    slt    Grt r ? St    -tt         t eCt?    -        ---         -- -...        -       --              Sfl ep,U   to 
a,"    ola Ae of 0          to    9is9   9SOc   -X                                                               oft 00it 417
to0    t'0     %lo    i.0      i8      i8o0    ell     #lo-    *It     C'3t"   *o       *,A-                  *4-09 of -*-
C'S?    9*0     551    em      Al"t t    'At    WatS    s's    em       us    alo      S's " nuU090 VI I t_                a
CeSt    'S?    5'S     O t t S'Pt   0'S a        ' O     't    ?'U    C'S    iC        C S'S  e o         * _S t~0 ~a96q 660
OOt    slit    e       ns?t   Iltn    slot    sen    v,n    's,        tel    ao Att    40?                   SUUJ6065 an   o o 1
S'CS    5125    6015    tIOe    owa   t'e    WUt   v'"S    Al"    s'ss    eS-A    e':u    W01                60W9u         60041d
eL9    Isst   Sibe    C"    C'         S tsC   OC      i tC U   'O     IS??    wi sOos=   *'cs                  609000  66W^
C'?    ?'et    Ole&    gela     else    tigt   9C'.    SI'T 8   'et?   I'm    Iles    'sl tla 8Mllt9l00 tUO   10461
9'aL        t'-9 e    e- m      e-9ut St T'    9'eg    5-ns   w-'s    O'OSt  s'.    a-'s        et'              c1 P  0  i0
S'U    vet    c's.    v,9      Also    slog ti'        aso9  is.'   tat    C's.    I'At    "i'                   &c  P    _"
I'tt'   'tt-   e'aZ-   S'm-    'u-u   AtllP-   U'-    9-9t-   0'C-    'sS-   C'll-   II-    s-n                    06t013 ea"0066
C'S    CtS    IlS      t I'eS    C0t   SOC      9'     *'I C    t'tt   tl's    ot      31l     i'                       OS"pas
t'Ot   sAi     O'St    'St    ,'tt   3'0w                                     9'0w i'm  *'t;    Ole  Cot    s'et    t'i  (atl  on.l u P)
0-9   o+   o+t       -9     g    W- 9                                                     A'- *- *J- *   - se ta2w  x*  e*o)
WoC    I'v      ills    0'0    S'C      log       =     "       "        " Il "e               5'9        (Stau.qa6pm4.qqb)
lo    I'l    I'C        O'tl    S'0s    s'oi    %Ii    C       em'    slog 9'0         Ce        le 0'e
*'9'  Olt  *'A         elf     $,A      VI*'O          slt    *lot    A'0t  'Ot '*1            all             sem *6lp" 
ttg              '     0'      8'0       'i    o'eotOt   O'OT                  O'OOt AMO    O-O          * tm m  gm
CCC    SiC sO    m       'l ml         set    c's.?   o'u t    o'st a do       t o- u  t csI'
As. P  -*V) p69a6-&.d
(S) AOd  P -       66  0-11aII 9h'"W-y I-ISM 'V
t~~ Jo  ~~  ~  tIt~~UtUtA  pim  ~~~xtuOUo~~~j A~~'s   *   .."ItI (6ba Ia I l) 60It96a'*d MlU-PIN
I XOl
_f 9*



- 37 -
Mauritania. Key Economic and Financial Indicators   AnnexI
1985-91               Page 2 of 4
C. it;es DW*    (_)1111*                hIt                                                       rowt  i"C 0.0)
Io       1ow      1i     t1        109    tio        i        t6 wil   tI     1T-78   S60   NOW
CAsr Pti          R (Vs 64         .0    164.6      S.4       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..      6.b    10.7       0.1
Owt_ow   Piom  (10                  ... ..                             ..       ..
woiit 007 0or   Wet             I0.0   160.6   V7S.*   1W7.,   1to.7   U10.1           9. 3m.   10.4   10.8       4.1      6.5      t.6
rol i,lt iz_ti.     tlt         10.0    VI.S   1*47.2          140. 6  1. ,40.    140.6   149.6    1.6            6.0      0.6      T.S
later. for f   ets, VAT
Agv4rcea     I uefttSC10.0              41.6   174.8                                                            9.0      6.2    10.5
leissirlol Ilowbar            10.0      81.*   in*1.                                                            1.1      6.6      4.0
sarvies 6 .                   I.S.O    93i.9    10.                                                            -0.2    10.6    11.0
D. Oibtr ldlstir               16140  1067   1674                                               107     1ow0    lo7       1001
Growet Patos CB s.c.)t
Pmlstleft                       3.A      2.6      L7                    Uere of Tl
Labor aes                        ..       ..       ..                    ateb r    GO
Grow 161'S lcame  ..           -1.9       0.0     3.                        rlti.  e .e ..              8.8
P4t.mo  Cmeampawt1, s.cO.      -1.7      0.0      6.3                     lode*"r              8.7      0.0
sogreSa             14.1    31.7
imA'lt UEebO"latjr                                                          total             iao.o   1011.0
Issert (000111" IIW()           41.1     1.6      1.6
Plarsifas Seuw I.. Ptie
Oross 01tSea1I1 OeviS          -4.1    78.4    14.4
Gross lS. 6WISe                -7.4     0.7      4.8
010  (sorld "warea)                ..     0.4       i.0
_. ielom   Acwit Coiil_*. d ia  at IU Pr_s)
of UK 0. 1 PrPo, Pm)
160,    108    IS"  _              I1      l67 _      o      10       160    199       10i
Wlai tftdiUa  7om                       am07t               itia            a        Omi  1119011    Om        am       42t01111
ielcueo6                               Sim       Om       09      10768   1line   1ti01     114    11710    11t1    W"66
lod".t                         794      717      086      966    1Om6       007    1.068    1185    A1im      1393111  11n6
(of wich lto    tur)           ..       ..       ..       ..       ..     ml    22                   610 t06 3tOti
(of .65.5 lliaSoe            il       6119    43          1"    41        494   4af1       am      8UK1   6am1        a
arlma                         11         M1    1046   111    12117    1             18116   1809     16       14840    146U
s.r   blses                      64    -1"   -son   -U1             -06    -1am       -47   -tm    -14         -1<49  -170
Susorte of am                 11       17607   14167   1"W        1_6    31m7    13         2*         21   32438    ma6
Issort of Om                  31706  i8116   3181i         O       67       10im   807      8166      =W07    SUN    8m
Total Easditura                  01      476    48060   46          WM7    471          =      40413   660   684    SON8S
route C.umtl."an              S661    4074    86871    806    SON8   8679   4068    423016    469    46404    6046511
IrSvsta CoWmoio              .07     869      83i11   6SO67  I9766   84           11511    5736I   60738 i           447
immoroal _OtauetA            G4        44    486U     44n        47         "      am      S6       G        104    8630
ae     omiQ_ _1atm    i -_             _ U7=      7        i it  W225        40      O       gmE  e :   "O               illsZ
PrIn "Wmei invest""    t     1l78      7318    107      1"W7   1"as    TM6    6ag1    Om              an      Om8    10066
P1cdImetaa    i__1i7   1817                    0616  Ul09        00       7340    614       83         1J  0776    1it
laS  bo,                        ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       a        a        as      61       64       4
rom o9f Tade Adjutows               0     1am      11       80      a631      408      SW67    7TM      68        66    6071
Gram Doem_le 1a_                 soS      111   sun    81           4_236    417815       4    6 _ 6    4d1*    80171n  618
Gram Petl  _   ame              U        a" 616       3     67      8 6        16    40_i0   487       467    470        40466
Gram i tlot  iU7oJct            8634      31      61"    17          364   864        608    641         6t6   491    418
aros    si-Se Selali      0      O   _ 4           -7n1     41?    gm         34       1001    8m       am         6      817
Not Fastr 1naM                -174        1104    4      -_3    4-1163   -67           0 _ 3          -.M8
i9014 Corit Traeef*i           41       3        gUm      am      -118      -0113   -109    -106    -,t.
G*ro  WOSomS $weis. _.                            6S1i i             SW -43i1I   -1113          -1       Su
i_ r-



38  -
MILaT84A  - mTEla. 780                                             AanneX  I
~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 4
A. Voluee, ValuIanDW  Pri-                       Atal                                       pro i,    PretioP.
twftO    aess    104     1ou      sWtt   1067    iwS         am      aooo    1991    192
Necho,O                           _--eEo-orte  --
VW an                         100.0    8S.0   100.0   106.0   102.0   106.2   114.l    18S.8   181.6   151.6   116.4
FIS4                          100.0   446.0    7.0   47.0   S.O    8.0   44.S   468.9   487.1    499.8   60.81
OYPeJt                                                                   102.6    I8.t   18.7  2S0.0   60.0    490.0
Toatl lre        t.                               ..       ..       ..       .10.6   106.8   106.0   106.9
-    ------nl.rk  Prig"* OMs 
VWI a                           161     184      144 M51           144     tS27     141      178     177      173      1 to
FM                              4S      le 1t     t       219     gm                264      28?     2         o       80
WP31                                                                         1        0        1        1       2        a
Total ntrh. Exporte F           1"      S        29        72      422     406      442      487     460      478      476
Iterchandiss Z0Oprte
--               -               ---------------------'------Vouae  Index  1e-G1---------.-..-.
Fod                              ..       .       ..       ..      ..   140.6   141.6   157.4   144.6  1t2.8   157.2
ther Com       o                 ..      ..       ..       ..       ..    67.6    6.6    62.6    69.6    78.1    78.6
POL and Other Ene-w                       .        .66.6   170.4   216.8   150.0   164.4   157.7
Intarmdat. Good am"                                .        .       .       .         .
(of which PrimaryG)            ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       .        .       .
(of which Ilswi. Go.ds)        .        .       .         .       .       .         .       .
capital Good                      .       .       . ".                      .         .       .
Tout lath C O"lF
Totl Nterd,    Srt PeEt          ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       .        .
---- --___ -_- -------V ge--Va*-Wrre t Prige   (1UN *il; IoeI   )   ------    --
Food                            106     12        66m      6       68       04      114      lo     102      l06      110
Other Conue eGoo"e               48      89       48       46      a6       so       8S       26      8s       64   U
POL  nd Otho erberJS 8                   46       4s       as      21       82       27       84      24       27       go
Zntra.diat Godxe                70       e        s         o 60  6 17      98      too0    lie      126      JLs      18
(of which Priw.r ONe")                                                    St6      66      so      126      18n      189
(da hich ttG        )                                                     S6       Stt     SO        0        0        0
CapitAl Goode                    60      60       66       74      76       ta       76       82      02      117      1os
Tout  rarh. S_orte  0a8         an      87       602      6l7     8OS      82       888      880     Jn       425      489
evin"   Ud-ew                    - - ---- - ----- - -  ------ - ------ P- ice Ide. l--- --
rchaudlee bporte                 .                                       OS10.0   114.0   110,0    1W.    118.7   114.9
wchei         p"e               ..      ..       ..       ..       ..     4.6    91.8    76.7    79.6    61.9    so.e
TaTn of Trade                                                            s  12S.6   124.e9  19    142.2   186.6   142.0
i. Share of Toutl X of N () at Current Price.              C. Growth Ratee (  at Cotant Pri"e
1966    1075    196o      1ay7   1992                      16-78  178-0  1060-67   17-92
N.rchandiee axport.
gm                               . E            77.0    81.2    82                                            8.2      8.1
p13                              .        .     21.9    68.6    66.8 .-                                .      7.8    -0.6
Gyps                             ..       ..     0.0      0.1     0.6                         ..      ..      0.0    48.1
Tout llrch.         Feport no8  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10.0                                         0.0      1.7
Ns,cliadiee lumort.
FW                                              62.1    26.4    26.1                                                   2.4
Other ConmeG                     .. a. U5 4               6.9     6.1                         ..       .               8.
POtL A Other Der                 ..      ..    14.0       9.8     6.                                                  -2 7
teredite Goodeb                                 21.0    27.      8. S                                                 16.l
(of Which Prmry ae)            ..      ..       ..    17.4    50.2                                                  27.4
(o ahih ljf. t   oo"d)                                 10.8     00                                                   M    
Cealtal Goo"d                                   18.7    2S.0    24.0                                                   8 .
Total artch. toporte FOB      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                                                    7.0
20-pr-0



- 39 -
sW.ZTUAW- MAUIA     CF PAVOOM                                   Annex I
(lli *it"l St Ufl55t .rln)                                     Page  4  of  4
Astel                              Preli         Projection.
ais     11111    194      11966    196       96      111111    1969    1MO      1991    199
A.  epors of GONd& aWs           2au       so                89       4        40       g06s    49       Su       Su        am
S. noAie e   (FM                t1       w1       09       a7       406      406      442     48       "6       46       47
1. NWacitor srvice               n        so       n        27       24       4        6                 4       a5       8
S.   mots o *=d GW   tA i         44       8s       480      8u       810       -        96                       a4       6
1. NetO3oo (M                   an        ae       o       84        o        so       s       g0      8        4        439
2. NoFcr Serie                  in       177      176      20       299      m6      2us       24       5        04      2
C. _Emr.. Sisbl.                 -196    -21       -15      -187      -38  -II          -89     -60      .4      -1401   -1a6
0.  rut ieter lose                -07      42       -89      -9       -67      -21      -7t      -e      -65       -8      -80
1. Fi_ e or   ipt.               17        9        a        4        2        2        2       a        a        5        6
2. Fwte  pay                     44       7         e       96       69       as       75       6        so      es 
(inteoret O-Vests)                                                81      24        62      62       a8       84       8
a.    et Currwt Tronoere          -        -27      -20      .21      -20      -2e      -        -0      -24      -16      -12
1. crreat Reelpts                1         2        4        4        7       is       is       a                         11
* .ork.e, r.sitten.e           6        I        I        1        2        7        7        7       7        6        O
b.emakraur.t tren.             o        1        a        5   a             6        6        1       2        2        6
S. Current POORt*                S9       09       26       26       as       -        41      84       as      2g    Zl
P..Cu rrt Accont Balance         -01      -299    -218      -5       -        -201    -184    -142    -178        24 
0.  Lo.n-T.r.. Cit,l Ino...         0       08      19       252      142      1e        72      74       169      1       187
1.. s ofreatlnv...o~t            2a        I        9        7        8       a        8        8        4        4        4
.        official Srene         117                67       r7       78       97      no      Sol       s      109    1i
Mte   a Las"                    1e       166      9C        4        6         6      -e       -190     82       62       go
. Olat_emt.                  12       "D       114       Oa      211    1up         98      100     182      170      la
in. hp"ne (maci. en2          17       14        o       SI               104      176      90       1o      100      its
la arrmes  In 1969)
iNt.  Ttel Otetrese               -86        U5      -I       -7       16 -40 -8 1                        -        -s o7
l. tihrt Tore Capitol            -6        8        I       -S       a9      -17      -i       14        a        0        0
g. CitAsl 8P   Ii.E.I.            0        0        a        0        0        1        0       -9      .4       .5       .7
i. 8rr.rVW dGiseicn             -at       12       -2       -4       -4      -24        0       0        0        0        0
I.  Iuan  to "atb_rwrvee           as       la       29       go        0       4       -        11        9       .2      -11
1. #deCrqdltt trom i   W         i8       .7      -11        I        7       is        1       2       to            4  -
2. other Reserve COh45e          206      89       40      20        -7      -14       -4        9       -9     -11       4
(- Indicate. tnIrcr,e)
ore. at CDP (urrent UWO)
1. R_gmree iblec                4-7.7   -26.6   -21.7   -19.2    -7.7   -10.8    -6.6    -iS.8    4t.8    -12.4   -1N.1
2. Tom  tanrte Poo_W               ..       .         .       .         .      i.O      0.l     6.2      5.4      4.7      4.1
8. Currnt Accunt blranc         -65.4    47.9    -20.9 .4.0o   -19.0   -21.6   -18A.   -14.4  -.6.2   -U1.7   -18.4
4 LT Cnpifel Intlaw               58.0    82.0   20.1    62.5    16.6    11.8           7.0      7.6    15.7    15.4    15.6
6.  eto Credit rame the VW        1.6    -0.9    -1.6        0.1      0.6      1.9      0.1     0.2       1.7      0.6    -0.7
N_sr_nu It...:
CP current USS                  709.0    768.0   7m.*   71.0   64i.0           9534    11       9O      1078     1148     1202
Feripn REchu    Reswves:
1. Intl. Reserves (tiS)          140      lO        78       so       46
2. Od1Cdi yr Lodend  reas)          7        4        4        4        4
8. Gre eevs. Inac. Gold           146      110      6t        68       58
4. craft R. In fnUth i ert          4   i             2        I 1
ctue Rats"  (=A$).:
1. "NM. Oft. X-Ret. (uFs r)        46       58       64       77       74       74
2. Real Ott. XK-Rt. 0s. 19800      1o0     124      11       110      100
S.  -et. for to   Cmnvereln        46       85       64       77       74       7
20-Aer-90



- 40 -
-    ~~~~~~~~~ANX TI
________                             Page 1 of 1
IC 8R          E SECR ADJUTMT PoR
87*1Ws Of SAJIC GRAIlO8AXNS IN MARTAI
S_rv Statem_t of Sank Loans and IDA Credits
(As ot MIach $0, 190M)
Amount  In USS mItlon
(las cal tatton)
Flscal
Credit No.         ear   orower          Purno"        Sok          IDA        ibndbrms
S loans and 10 Credits (a) close                       46.00       102.65
of which SALS and SECAL*
CA02SO-UA         190?  MURITANIA      SAL I                       27.40
L20450-1TA        1986  MAIRITANIA     SMIM  RESB      20.00
Sub-Total                                        20.00        27.40
Cr.1292041TA     18  MwRITANIA        TECH.ASSIST.I                 4.60      1.90
Cr.14140-MA      1964   AMITANA       TEcI.ASST.To RUAL S           8.10
Cr.16070-MTA     10M M6 ITANI         PUSIC EH  TA 1NM             1C.40      8.$8
Cr.15710-TA      16O  MURITANIA       SMALL SCALE MIRATI            7.60      5.76
Cr.16720-11TA    1085  nUITANI        1F I1                         5.26      3.93
Cr.160-4TA      1O6  MUMITANZA       LrVESTOCK XX                  7.60      7.11
Cr.1 1204TA(S)  1987  MRITANIA        SAL I                        16.00        .28
Cr.l156041TA     1988  MAURITANI      DEVELOP. MT                  10.00      7.11
Cr.1940-11TA     1909  AUITAUIA       EDUC.SECTOR RESUUCT          16.10     16.07
sCr.2030-MTA(S)  1990  MAURITANIA      AO SECAL/11RIG IPRO          2S.       26.07
Total                                                          117.66     69.64
TOTAL so*                                             146.00   220.50
of which repaid                                    100.66      4.78
Toal hold by Bonk & IDA                                 45.35   216.73
Amount sold            93.5
of which repld      63.36
Total undlbured                                                  609.7B
Notes
a)    Approve during or afr FY60
b>    Includs Special Fund
c>    Not yet effective
o     Sol, Socel or Progrm Loan



_ 41 -
ANNEX I!
Page 1 of 1
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSMENT IPROGRAM
Supplementary Pro1ect Data Sheet
Section I : Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare projects               About 12 months
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:          Government/Bank
(c)  Project first identified by IDAs             April 1988
(d)  Bank appraisal mission:                      January 1990
(e)  Negotiations:                                May 1990
(f)  Board presentation:                          June 1990
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               July 1990
Section 1I : Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III : Special Conditions



- 42 -
Annex IV
Page I of 25
Unofficial
English Translation
of the Orliinal French Text
DRAFT SECTORAL POLICY LETTER
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
May 25, 1990
As part of the ongoing dialogue between the World Bank and the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, in particular under the
first structural adjustment credit and more recently during negotiations on
the 1989-91 economic policy framework paper and the structural adjustment
credit for the agriculture sector, I would now like to discuss the major
thrusts of our development policy in the public enterprise sector.
Before I discuss the main features of that policy, it needs to be
situated in the overall economic context.
I.          MACROECONOMIC POLICY
1.1         Status review of the structural adiustment program
During the period from 1985 to 1988 Government of Mauritania
formulated and implemented an Economic and Financial Recovery Plan (Plan de
Redreesement Economique et Financier - PREF) with the support of the World
Bank, which on that occasion agreed to extend a structural adjustment credit
and another for institutional development. The plan aimed at correcting the
major economic and financial imbalances that had accumulated since the mid-
1970s, restoring a viable medium-term external position and laying the
foundations for lasting economic growth.
For 1985 to 1988, the public investment progrem was pared down
from 23Z of GDP in 1985 to 18S in 1987, a level that was more compatible with
the country's absorptive and debt service capacities. Prior to the tariff
reform introduced with the 1989 budget, customs duties were lowered in 1988
for a number of products and exemptions for imported raw materials were
reduced in order to stimulate the use of local resources. Regarding the price
policy, measures were adopted to liberalize the price-setting and marketing
system for local grains, whereas the retail prices of those grains were
adjusted to reflect the increase in producer prices. A number of measures
were also taken to promote the development of small and medium enterprises and
the fishing sector.



- 43 -
Anne: IV
Page 2 of 25
1.2         Medium-term objectives and volicies
Because the results of the PREF are certainly encouraging, but
still fragile, the Government formulated a new strategy to promote reforms
leading to structural adjustment as well as lasting growth, in order to raise
the standard of living. The Government's structural adjustment strategy is
based on an action program fort agriculture, public enterprises, promotion of
private initiative, diversification of the export base and upgrading of human
resources. The authorities nevertheless acknowledge that the attainment of
those objectives may be impaired by heavy debt service obligations and, to
some extent, rapid population growth, two of the key areas in which the
Government is seeking solutions vith the assistance of the donors.
It was in this context that the Government updated its economic
and financial policy framework paper, with the following objectives for 1989-
91: (i) average annual growth in real GDP of about 3.52, which should lead to
a modest increase in per capita income; (ii) reduction in the annual
inflation, measured by the GDP deflator, from 72 In 1989 to about 4.52 in
1991; and (iii) reduction in the current account deficit, from 11.82 of GDP in
1987 to about 3.62 in 1981. Excluding official transfers, the current account
deficit would be lowered from 21.62 of GDP in 1987 to about 9.82 in 1991. The
medium-term achievement of this objective takes into account the prospects for
exports and implementation of the incentives policy and liberalization of
external trade.
Economic incentives policy
With a view to reducing economic distortions and improving the
allocation of resources in the parapublic and private sectors, the Government
has begun a program to liberalize its trade and price policy. Significant
rises in producer prices for cereals have pushed up retail prices. The
pricing system was made more flexible, the number of products on the official
price list was cut substantially and many products subject to the fixed margin
system were deregulated. In addition, the new Investment Code adopted on
January 23, 1989 has improved the institutional and legal framework.
Reform of the financial sector
With a view to improving financial intermediation, the efficiency
of which is vital to economic growth, the Government began and intends to
actively continue reforms in the financial sector, including:
(i)   Reform of the credit policy and banking regulations;
(li)   Strengthening of the Central Bank of Mauritania;
(iii)   The restructuring of the banking sector involved five of the
existing seven banks. One was completely privatized and four were



- 44 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 25
merged into two separate institutions, one of which is now being
privatized, while the other was reorganized (staff cuts,
recruitment of foreign technical assistance, improvement in claims
recovery, etc.).
The financial rehabilitation of these institutions was financed by
bonds issued by the Treasury at a cost to the State of UH 7 billion.
These reforms were accompanied by a prudent credit policy Laimed at
containing growth in the money supply and optimizing the allocation of
resources among the productive sectors.
2.          Reform of the vublic enterDrises sector
Just after independence, the Government had to take over several
economic activities, deviating from its traditional field of action, to meet
certain pressing needs that the embryonic and deficient private sector at that
time could not satisfy.
This led to the birth of a sizeable parapublic sector,
encompassing nearly 80 public establishments and enterprises in all branches
of activity, with a total value added representing nearly 251 of the gross
domestic product. Moreover, it accounts for about one-fourth of all those
employed In the modern sector of the national economy.
Aware of the need to reform the parapublic sector, which was
running increasingly large deficits and outstripped by the economic and
historical development of the country, the Government had finalized a
rehabilitation program for the sector under the PREF.
This policy, to be continued and refined in all aspects during the
period from 1990 to 1993, will be centered arounds
-     a reform of the legal and institutional framework governing the
relations between the State and public enterprises;
-     financial restructuring;
-     policy of State divestiture;
-     rehabilitation of certain enterprises key to the economy.
2.1         Legal and institutional framework
Improving the efficiency of public enterprises requires, among
other factors, resolving the difficulties linked to the legal and
institutional framework characterized by:



- 45 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 25
(i)   a complicated and unwieldy supervisory system,
(11)   a plethora of supervisory bodies with similar functions and
poweras
(i1i)   a lack of an overall and consistent policy for supervision and
monitoring of progress in relation to the Government's objectives.
Order 84.038 of Pebruary 25, 1984 and its Implementing Decree No.
84.117 of May 28, 1984 provided clarifications an pre-existing legislation and
practices in line with the new sectoral strategy.
Nevertheless, after five years of implementation, it is apparent
that the reforms introduced by that Order must be further refined.
To that end, a commlssion of senior officials, in conjunction with
the directors of public enterprises, studied the issue and submitted a series
of proposals to the authorities. The broad lines of those proposals were
adopted by the Council of Ministers at its meeting of December 7, 1988.
on the basis of those proposals, a new Order for public
enterprises was prepared and adopted by the ComltO Militaire de Salut National
(Order No. 90-09 of April 4, 1990). The lmplementing decrees are in the
process of being approved.
This reform led to a new logal classification of public
establishments and fundamentally changed the relations between the State and
public enterprises:
(a)   The reclassification of establishments has two main featurest
(i)    abolishment of professional public enterprises which existed
only on paper.
(ii)    establishment ox a new category of public enterprises called
'national corporations," (Societe Nationale) for companies
In which all share capital is held by the State or other
public entities. This new category, which will apply to
most other current industrial and commercial establishments
(EPICs), will glve state-owned companies greater autonomy
and at the same time facilitate their transition to mixed
companies (soci4tds d'economi mizte - SEMs) by opening
their share capital up to the private sector:
Thus, according to this new classification, the existing public
enterprises are grouped on the basis of their source of fundings
-     certain EPICs essentially funded from the budget were
reclassified as ZPAs (administrative public enterprises);



- 46 -
Annex TV
Page 5 of 25
_     other EPICs were reclassified as national corporations or
mixed enterprises (SEKs);
(b)   Change in relations between the State and public enterprises had
the following effectst
(i)    greater flexibility in the supervisory function, which is
now carried out solely by the ministry of the sector in
which the enterprise carries out its activity. The
supervisory function now involves a limited number of powers
of approval. For publicly -held companies (national
corporations and SMIs in which the State has a majority
holding), the supervisory function is exercised through only
three (3) acts. The Ministry of Finance nevertheless
continues to manage the State's portfolio;
(Li)    clarification of the awtual responsibilities of the bodies
of the public establishments and enterprises (office of the
director general, board of directors, general assembly);
(iii)    establishment of conditions whereby the State can require an
enterprise to provide public service for which the
enterprise can seek a "subsidy' from the Statet
(iv)    awarding of contracts directly by the establishments and
enterprises instead of through a central government
commission;
(v)    better monitoring of performance criteria for public
enterprises expressed in performance contracts, through the
strengthening of ex-post, internal and external controls.
Mauritanian officials wlll take the necessary measures to ensure
that the statutes of the public enterprises conform to the new provisions of
the Order by December 31, 1990 at the latest.
This reform will be completed by the adoption, before December 31,
1990, of an order which will provide the general framework for the liquidation
and privatization of public enterprises (sphere of jurisdiction, valuation of
assets and transfer) and set out the rules and procedures for defaults and the
filing of balance sheets, which will henceforth be rigorously applied whenever
necessary.
2.2         Financial rehabilitation of the sector
The Government is committed to taking a number of measures to
improve the financial health of the sector by avoiding an accumulation of



- 47 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 25
reciprocal debts, establishing the necessary controls and creating an
environment conducive to sectoral development.
(a)   ReciDrocal debts
On the basis of an evaluation of the reciprocal debts of public
enterprises, the Government, the enterprises and other guaranteed creditors
developed a plan to clear up arrears and to avoid new arrears.
ti)    Liquidation of arrears
- Arrears due by the Government and liquidated enterprises
previously included in the State portfolio total UM 689.2
million, half of which will be paid before December 31, 1990 and
the other half before June 30, 1991;
- Inter-enterprise debt, which concerns mainly the CNSS, will be
determined by September 30, 1990 and, after compensation, any
mutual balances will be settled by June 30, 1991 at the latest.
(ii)    Accumulation of arrears
In order to avoid future accumulation of arrears, the
following measures are proposeds
Budgetary provision for consumption (electricity, water,
telephone) in a given year will be equal to consumption in
the preceding year plus the difference between the provision
for the preceding year and actual consumption.
(ii)    Payment by the State to the public enterprise of debts due
by guaranteed clients if these have not paid the enterprise
during the year of their consumption. The payment will be
made by provision in the State budget for the following year
of the arrears of such clients.
(iii)    Authorization for suspension of delivery of goods and
services to public establishments and enterprises whose
invoices are not paid within the usual client deadlines.
(b)   Control and improvement in &uality of data
In order to improve the financial monitoring of individual public
establlshments and enterprises, the Government has established a Supervisory
Department. The Department will also assist the euterprises in (i) preparing
reliable balance sheets and appropriate financing plans for calculating their
refinancing needs; (ii) implementing a national accounting plan and budget



- 48 -
Annex TV
Page 7 of 25
procedures within the enterprises and (iii) strengthening and improving
internal and external controls.
Following these efforts, the enterprises wills
_     improve their accounting and budget procedures;
-     submit their financial statements quarterly to the Supervisory
Department;
-     establish their accounts at the latest three months after the
close of the fiscal year.
(c)   Financial Dolicy
The State's financial policy seeks to place the public enterprises
In a competitive environamet similar to that of private companies.
To that end, the following measures have been taken:
Ci) The State vill no longer make any direct or indirect subsidies to
public enterprises 'excluding MeAs) unless provided for by the new
Order.
(i1) The State will no longer guarantee or back domestic or foreign
loans except for investments fitanced by official donors who
specifically request it.
(iii)   National corporations may adjust their rates and implement them
freely under their performance contracts.
With a view to subjecting commercLal public enterprtses to
competition, the Government has abolished SIAR's monopoly and freed access to
petroleum distribution by eliminating the requLrement to possess 5Z of the
market before seeking status as a distributor.
2.3         State divestiture
The policy of the State towards public enterprises should
eventually result in lts withdrawal from most non-strateglc commercial and
industrial activities. At the end of the program, the State's portfolio will
consist essentially of ZPAs. national corporations and SEMs that show profits.
(a) Administrative mublic establishments (EPAs)
The State policy towards the RPAs will subject their budgets
(expenditures and personnel) to the sam regulations and controls as the
budgets of the supervlsory ministries. During the adjustment program,subsidy
levels and the number of EPAs will remain stable.  No new EPA will be created,



- 49 -
Annex IV
Page 8 of 25
except in the case of the transformation of an existing administrative unit
whose size and activities require greater financial and administrative
autonomy. In such a case, the new EPA vill be provided only with the budget
of the administrative unit that has been eliminated.
(b)   Industrial and comiercial public establishments (EPICs)
Following the reclassification of public establishments, the EPIC
category now contains only five establishmentst the CaLsse Nationale de
Securite Sociale (CNSS), the Raffinerie de P6trole (SOMIR), the Socit6
Nationale pour le D4veloppement Rural (SONADER), the Imprimerie Nationale. and
the SOMECOB. The Imprimerie Nationale and SOMECOB are under an obligation to
show profits and will be liquidated if they do not satisfy this requirement.
(c) National corporations (Sociatds nationales - SUs)
The national corporations are now provided with share capital * a
part of which may be sold to eventual private investors, to the extent that
the Government wishes to divest. This form of share capital has the advantage
of making the management of the Government's portfolio more flexible.
(c)    Mixed comoanies (Sociltes d'4conomie mixte - SEMs)
The situation of the 30 mixed companies has deteriorated; in 1989
only SNIM, SOMAGAZ, MAUSOV and SOCOGIM were showing a profit. The State
policy towards the SEf1 is guided by financial considerations, namely to
identify enterprises that have shown continual losses. The policy will be
implemented in several phases.
The first phase is currently well underway. The Government has
already liquidated four enterprises (SOPRUSA, MSP, SMIP and SOMS), and the
liquidation of another, MIE, is underway. Also, the Socite d'Habillement
(SH) has been transferred to the private sector.
In the second phase, the Government will evaluate all the
enterprises (SEHS) and will divest (privatize or liquidate) half of the
enterprises that are showing losses.
In the third phase, to be completed before June 30, 1992, the
Government will make the same decisions concerning the remaining companies in
its portfolio that are running at a loss.
As regards the SMCPP, the Government has already decLded to open
491 of its capital to private interests.
The Government will refrain from investing in new SEM4. To the
extent possible, it will encourage the local private sector to take shares
alongside foreip partners and will participate in the creation of companies



s 50 -
Annex IV
Page 9 of 25
only as a last resort, provided that potential profitability is clearly
established.
2.4         Enterprise rehabilitation
In addition to the actions for specific enterprises discussed in
the attachments, the Government has decided on rehabilitation programs for the
following priority enterprises.
(a)   SNIM
The SKIM rehabilitation program has both financial and technical
aspects.
tl)   On the financial side, following significant losses due to
unfavorable changes in the price of iron ore and exchange rates
combined with delays in the commissioning of the Guelbs plant,
SNIM will be restructured financially. In this regard, the State
has decided toa
-     capitalise the fiscal debt (US$7.8 million)s
-     temporarily suspend the special flat-rate tax (tale unique) until
the financial situation Is cleared up. This situation will be
reviewed annually;
-     provide SNIM with debt relief and write offs granted by
Mauritania's creditors (US$63 million);
-     relend the equivalent of US$..   million to SNIM in the form of a
capital increase and the equivalent of US$... million in the form
of a concessional loan;
-     in addition, the Goverrment and SNIM have requested a concessional
loan and rescheduling equivalent to US$50 million from the Arab
funds to strengthen working capital.
These significant amounts made available to SKIM will be used to
reconstitute its working capital and its arrears vis-&-vis CUSS and the State,
to settle bank overdrafts and improve its situation with suppliers.
In conjunction with the Government and donors, a share of the
increased working capital could be used for the early repayment of certain
loans to SHNM at relatively high interest rates.
(11) On the technical side, SNIM will implement a series of measures to
Improve its productivity, along with an action plan to increase
the capacity of the Guelbs plant.



- 51 -
Annex IV
Page 10 of 25
(b) OPT
The rehabilitation of OPT will weigh the advantages of separating
financial functions (national savings associations, postal checks and orders)
from the rest of the enterprise and will resolve the question of its debt, of
which the outstanding amount represents more than 35 times its capital.
(c) PANPA
The following measures have been implemented to improve PAN-PA's
situation:
- transfer of freight handling operations to private interests;
- abolishment of about 255 jobs, of which 34 will be taken over by
private handlers.
(d) SONDMEX
This company, which had previously flourished, ran significant
losses in 1989 following an increase in its costs (purchase prices, taxes,
overhead).
Measures have been taken to reduce direct and indirect costs and
an audit of the organization and of its 1988 and 1989 accounts will be carried
out. In addition, the monopoly of SONIMEX will be eliminated by June 1992.
(e) Air Mauritanie
This company has had difficulties due to very costly borrowings.
The action plan that has been formulated will be the basis for a performance
contract to be formalized by December 31, 1990, involving mainly:
-     an increase in domestic air transport ratest
-     debt relief and payment by the State of billing arrears.  A
portion of Air Mauritania shares will be offered to the private
sector before December 31, 1991.
(f)   SONELEC
This company was to be rehabilitated through a performance
contract signed March 19, 1988. The monitoring of that performance contract
and retention of some technical assistance are vital for the coming years. In
that connection the Government should turn the enterprise into a national
corporation and pay its billing arrears as well as the balance of capital.



- 52 -
Annex IV
Page 11 of 25
(s)   SMCp
Lastly, in the interest of efficiency, measures will be taken by
March 31, 1990 on behalf of S5CP in order to permitt
-     the liberalization of the capital balance of UK 390 million
remaining due by the Stateg
-     the transparency of sales and comnunication of data to shippers;
-     revision of the SMCP decree to reduce the company's total margin
(marketing margin and all other payments) and subjected to a
ceiling of 4.5 2.
3.          Social cost
The measures taken by the Government will have a high social
cost. An estimated 1,400 jobs will be lost in the public sector (i.e. 101 of
the total). The deregulation of certain sectors will undoubtedly create new
opportunities for the private sector, which will absorb many of those laid
off. In order to lessen the shock of loss of employment, the Government has
decided to compensate workers laid off in an amount equivalent to three times
their legal rights.
Macroeconomic Framework
The public enterprise sector adjustment program is an integral
part of the general adjustment efforts elaborated in the Policy Framework
Paper for the period of 1989-91 and presented to the Bank's Board in May 1989.
The macroeconomic framework as defined in this document, particularly relating
to the private sector and investments, is compatible with the objectives of
the PASEP. The policy framework is currently being updated. Any agreement on
revised macroeconomic targets for the period 1990-93 in the course of the PFP
negotiations would replace those fixed for the period 1989-91 and described
above.
LE MINISTRE DU PLAN ET DE L'EHPLOI
MOUSTAPHA OULD ABEIDERRAEMANE
Attachments



- 53 -
Page 12 of 25
ISLMIC       LIC OF 
PM-ICLN EFTRPRISE INSTITUTIONUL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
POST AMD TELECHM9MNICATIONS OPPICE
OFPICE DES POSTES ET TELEC     NCATIONS
(OPT)
DR scrlutiont
Share Capital                  a   UM    31,000.000
Turnover Cat 12.31.88)         a   UM 1.033,758,81 .30
Number of employees            I   900
Outstanding debt                  UK 4,000,000,000 (approx.)
Net income (for 1988)               M UM   320,300,000 (ptior to
audit)
Institutional Measures i
(a)   A chanse In OPT's status to a national corporation (socitd
nationals) before December 31, 1990.
(b)   Legal separation of OPT financial functions (Natlonal Savings Fund
and Center for Postal Checks and Orders) from the OPT legal entity
and fomation of an independent financial affiliate. A study
should be undertaken vith a view to ensuring that this separation
takes place by December 31, 1991 at the latest.
Cc)   Introduction of cost accounting (January 1, 1992) to achieve a
more satisfactory separation of telecomaxmications and postal
accounts and to identLfy costs and services by production unit.
Cd)  Improvement In the data processing system.
Performance Contract and Financial Rehabilitation
Recruitment of technical assistance In order to help the enterprise
prepare a performance contract to be signed before March 31, 1991.
The performance contract shall cover the following           points:
(a) Launching of a staff reorganisation study (reduction, training,
redeployment and recruitment of staff and Implementation of Its
recommendations).
(b) Reduction of postal service costs to bring them Into line with
sertvices provided, notably by reducing general expenditure by the
Postal Service and by cutting staff numbers.
(c)   Improved cost recovery, particularly In telecommincations (with a
goal of 95 percent to be set for 1993).



- 54 -
Annex IV
Page 13 of 25
(d) Government responsibility for debt incurred for investments used
exclusively for televisual transmission.
(e)   Revision of the investment plan, in particular as regards the
CDE&O regional telecommunications project and the coastal
communications stations, in order to reduce the cost of the plan
and to defer start-up of its implementation.
(f)   An increase in OPT capital to a level compatible with OPT
commitments and payment of arrears owing by the Government. In
addition, the Government will take over a share of OPT's long-
term debt corresponding to Investments which are not necessary to
the enterprise.



- 55 -
Annex IV
Page 14 of 25
MAURITANIAN INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE COMPANY
SOCIET8 MAURITANIENNE D'ASSURANCE ET DE REASSURANCE
(SM&R)
Description:
Capital                        s   UM  100,000,000
Turnover (average)             t   UM   600,000.000
Number of employees            a   233
Outstanding debt               t   0
Net income (for 1988)          s   UM   118,100,000
Pronosed Rehabilitation Measuress
(a)   Termination of the SMAR monopoly.
(b)   Launching of a sector reorganization study which would set out the
regulations, standards and procedures applicable to companies
being established in the sector, and Government controls.
tc)   Opening of the sector to private investors.



- 56 -
Annex IV
Page 15 of 25
NATIONAL IMRT AND EXPORT COMPANY
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'IMPORT ET D'EXPORT
(SONINEX)
Descriptions
Capital                        a   UK   914,842,000
Turnover (1988)                     UN 8,439,117,155
Number of employees            s   420
Outstanding debt               a   0
Net income (for 1989)          a   UK  -900,000,000
Measures for Financial Recover-s
1.    Short-term measures to be adopted before the end of Februar! 1990.
(a) Continuation and reinforcement of the policy designed to reduce
the company's overhead costs by cutting operating costs by UM 230
million, including the eltiminatLon of 200 jobs.
(b)   Renegotiation of SONIHEX's insurance and handling contracts with a
view to achieving savings of U3H 120 mllion.
(c)   The closing of certaln branch offices.
(d)   Implementation of the decree relating to the transport cross
subsidy.
(e)   The lntroductLon of more Integrated monLtoring procedures for
agencies and stock.
(f) Agreement on the best way of sharing the costS of rehabilitation
of the enterprise between the Government (tax cuts) and the
enterprise (reductLon ln costs).
2.    Lonaer-term Measuress
(a)   ContlnuatLon of the pollcy of demonopolLsatLon by endLng the sugar
monopoly (ln particular that of loaf sugar) by means of Government
wLthdrawal from the SOMIS (Socete6 KauritanLenne des Industrles du
Sucre - MaurLtanLan Sugar Industrles Company) before AprlI 30,
1990.
(b)   Placing SONI1 products in a competLtive envlronment before June
30, 1992, by allowLag those wishLng to do so to lmport under the
ewm condltlons as those enjoyed by the enterprise.



- 57 -
Annex IV
Page 16 of 25
MAURTANIAN FISHI NAJITIJG COMPANY
SOCIETE NAURITANIENNE DE COMHKRCIALISATION DE POISSONS
(StCP)
Description:
Share Capital                  t   UK   500,000.000
Turnover (at 12.31.89)         *   UK    13,130,000
Number of employees            s   140
Outstanding debt               s   0
Net income (for 1988)          :   UK    18,800,000
Trade: UM 346.3 million
Jleett UH 327.4 million
Commercial policy:
(a)   Preparation of a study on the SHCP's coumercial prospects in the
light of existing products and of new, easily-developed products.
(b) Preparation of a study on the SMCP's price policy and future
possibilities for using this policy as a means of automatic
discrimination between good- and lower-quality production.
(c)   Modification of the order regarding the composition of SMCP prices
vith a view to limiting its total profit margin and to achieving a
more even distribution of costs between the SMCP and the boat-
owners.
(d)   Improvement of relations between the SMCP and the boat-owners,
including transparency in sales prices.
Financial Rehabilitation:
(a)   A change in the legal status of the SMCP which will henceforth be
a national corporation (societ6 nationale).
(b)   Preparation of an accounts and management audit which will result
in a system of cost accounting and will reflect operational costs
of private fishermen.
(c)   Drawdown by the Government of UM 390 million of the company's
equity, and opening of company capital to the private sector.
(d)   Setting up of a revolving account by means of a provision for
risk.
(e) The Government will sell off all fishing boats, releasing the SMCP
from any financial or legal responsibility before March 30, 1990.



- 58 -
Annex IV
Page 17 of 25
NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY FUND
CAISSE NATIONALE DE SECURITE SOCIALE
(CNSS)
Description:
Reserve fund (1986)           :   UM 1,448,100,000
Turnover                      s   for the record
Number of employees           s   451
outstanding debt              t   0
Net income                    s   for the record
Organizational Measures:
(a)  Effective implementation of the status of Industrial and
Commercial Statutory Body.
(b)  Administrative, financial and accounting reorganization.
(c)   Development and implementation of a new sectoral accounting
system.
(d)  Adjustment in staff numbers and training of all staff members.
Financial Rehabilitations
(a)  Auditing and revision of accounts.
(b)   Reduction of costs, notably staff costs.
Study of the role of the CNSS as an institutional investor.



-  59                                   Annex IV
Page 18 of 25
NOUAKCHOTT PUBLIC TRANSPORT COMPANY
SOCIETE DE TRANSPORTS PUBLICS NOUAKCHOTT
(STPN)
Descriptions
Share Capital                 s   UM    12,000,000
Turnover                      2   UM   11S,000,000
Number of employees           s   170
Outstanding debt              s   UM   206,000,000
Net income (for 1988)         s   UK   -33,800,000
Rehabilitation Measures:
(a) Cancellation of the Government debt of UK 136.2 million.
(b)   Reinforcement of maintenance workshops through the recruitment of
an espert.
(c)   Introduction of public transport standards.
(d)   Transferral by the Government of its shares to other stockholders
on conditlon that they ensure rehabilitation of the company or
that they make use of the assets.



- 60 -
Annex IV
Page 19 of 25
AIR MAURITANIA
DescriDtion:
Capital                        s   UK   150,000,000
Turnover                       I   UK 1,000.000,000
Number of employees                 357
Outstanding debt               s   UK 1,300,000,000
Net income (for 1988)          :   UM  -299,300,000
Fianmcial Rehabilitation:
(a)   Increase in tarrifs of at least 9 percent on domestic routes and
30 percent on international routes.
(b) Finalization of all conditions of rescheduling of FOKRKER debt for
1989 and 1990.
gc)   Payment of the Government of billing arrears to the amount of UK
205,500,000.
(d)  an increase in the company's equity by, inter alia, reevaluation
of the fleet or increased capital by sale of the Grumann aircraft.
Performance contracts
Ca)   Signature of a performance contract with the Government before
September 1990.
(b)   Revision of the organization chart and redeployment of staff in
order to make the company more flexible and efficient.
(c)   Introduction of a master plan for data processing allowing for the
establishment of budgetary and accounting procedures (including
cost accounting) and flexibility in the system of training.
(d)   An Increase in domestic air transport rates.
(e)   A decrease in the wage bill by means of a reduction in staff
numbers and in overtime.
(f)   Revaluate the situation in 1992, the composition  of the fleet of
the company.



- 61 -
Annex IV
Page 20 of 25
NOUAKCHOTT PORT AUTHORITY
PORT AUTONWEK DE NOUAKCHOTT DIT PORT DE L'AMITIE
(PANA)
Descriptiont
Capital                        X   UK   281,524,000
Turnover (1989)                :   UM   570,000,000
Number of employees                 3 517
outstanding debt               :   UK 6,517,569,000
Met income (for 1989)          s   UK  -192,000,000 (adjusted)
InstLtutional Measuress
Ca)   Revision of legal status before December 31, 1990 to make the
PAMPA a national management corporation (soci6t6 nationale de
gestion) which would no longer own the capital works,
infrastructure and buildings.
(b)   Rehabilitatl.w of the enterprise's balance sheet with a view to
aligning it with PANPA's new legal status, and preparation of an
opening balance sheet.
Cc)   Responsibility for the management of capital works, infrastructure
and all other fixed assets to be transferred to PANPA against
payment to the Government of an annual fee.
(d)   Initiation of the process for privatizing handling activities and
the transfer of teil materLal connected with this activity (with
the exception of Wharf and Port fixed cranes) by April 30, 1990 at
the latest.
Financial Rehabilltatlon:
(a)   Reduction of costs, in pacticular by a reduction of 255 in current
staff numbers before April 30, 1990 followed by an additional
transfer of 34 staff members to the private sector when handling
ls privatlzed.
(b)   Total drawdown of equity before December 31, 1990.
(c) Coverage by the Government of the cost of investments carried out
at the Port and at the former SNO and of the corresponding capital
repayment.
Performace contract:



- 62 -
Annex IV
Page 21 of 25
(a)   Agreement with the Government before March 31, 1991 on a
performance contract.
(b) Preparation of a new, simple and efficient, organization chart for
the new enterprise which should, in particular, comprise solutions
to future staff problems.
(c) Improvement of PANPA's data processing system and introduction of
a system of cost accounting.
(d) Revision of tariffs by taxation of goods unloaded directly, other
than SONIMEX and CSA goods, so that the Port can at the very least
balance its accounts and pay an annual fee ta the Government for
usage of the infrastructure.



- 63 -
Annex IV
Page 22 of 25
MAURITANIAN COMPANY FOR THE MARKETING OF OIL PRODUCTS
PRODUITS PETROLIERS
(SMHPP)
Descriptions
Share Capital                  :   UK   120,000,000
Turnover                       s   UM 3,986,842,000
Number of employees            :   123
Outstanding debt               s   0
Met income (for 1988)          a   UM    31,100,000
Institutional Measurest
(a)   Opening of at least 49 percent of capital to the private sector
following evaluation (currently being undertaken by the consulting
company, FALL MOUIAMEDINE) of the enterprise's assets.
(b)   Modification of the decree relating to criteria for becoming a
distributor of oil products.
Financial Rehabilitation Measuress
(a)   Reduction of staff numbers and recruitment of a limited number of
highly-qualified managerial staff.
(b)   Introduction of an aggressive recovery policy.
(c)   Introduction of sound accounting and budgetary procedures.



- 64 -
Annex IV
Page 23 of 25
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Ps SCAL
PLAN OF ACTION
Deadline Status
1.    Legal and Institutional Framework
1.1   Adoption of a new Order
regarding the public enterprlse
sector and its Implementing decreess
State Council (Conseil des Ministres)      3.15.90  Done
Military Committee (ComltA Militaire)      4.15.90  Done
1.2   Revision of the legal status of public
establishments and enterprises in
conformity with the new Order                            12.31.90
1.3   Adoption of the privatization Order
2.    Financial Rehabilitation of the Sector
2.1   Cross debts
- submission of a definitive plan          3...90  Done
- adoption of autoeratic mechanism for
provisions in the budget                 12.31.90
(1991)
Finance Act)
- payment of 50 percent of cross debts    12.31.90
- payment of remaining cross debts         12.31.91
- adequate provisions for SONELEC, OPT,
AIR MAURITANIA and oil products           12.31.90
12.31.91
12.31.92
etc.
2.2   State Divestlture
- privatizationlliquidation of 50 percent
of mixed companies (SEMs) in which the
Government is a majority shareholder and
which are operating at a loss                  3.31.91
- privatization/llquidation of remaining
SEHs operating at a loss                       3.31.92
- proof of liquidation/privatization of the



- 65 -
Annex IV
Page 24 of 25
following:  SAMIP, CH, MIE and SOMIS            3.15.90 Done
2.3   Financial audits of SONELEC, OPT,
PANPA, AIR MAURITANIA, SONIMEX
annually before                                   3.31.91 Done
2.4   Termination of SMAR monopoly                      4.30.90 Done
Deadline Status
2.5   Total liberalization of oil product
distributions revision of the decree           4.30.90  Done
2.6   Opening of SMCPP capital                       4.30.90  Done
Deadline   Status
3.    Specific Measures for Certain Enterprises
3.1   SNIM (Socit6 nationale industrielle et
minibre)s
- capitalizing the fiscal debt                           completed
- temporarily waiving right to single tax                completed
- allowing SNIM to benefit from debt relief
and partial debt forgiveness (to be
formalized for a portion of French debt)               completed
- signature of agreement between Government
and SNIM for the usage of counterpart funds
to increase capital and concessionary loan              6.30.90
- capital endowment (US$30 million)                       9.30.90
- capital endowment (US$20 million)                       9.30.91
- implementation of Guelbs plan of action                 6.30.91
. submission of performance indicators                    monthly
- submission of technical and financial
report                                                 quarterly
- financial audit                                         annually
3.2   SONELEC (Socidt6 natlonale d'eau et
d'4lectricita)t
- Lmplementation of performance contract                 permanent
- payment of unpaid subsidies                             9.30.90
- payment of unpaid capital endowment (see
performance contract)
3.3   PANPA (Port autonome de Nouakchott dit Port de l'Amitid)s
- reduction in staff numbers (139)                        4.31.90
- comencement of privatizationihandling                   3.31.90
- revision of legal status                               12.31.90
- agreement on performance contract                       3.31.90
- recruitment of technical assistance for
cost accounting and data processing                     9.31.90



- 66 -
Annex IV
Page 25 of 25
3.4   OPT (Office des Postes at T6l6communications)s
- separation of telecommmications and postal
from accounts                                            1.C1.90
- recruitment of technical assistance to
help OPT draw up a performance contract                 9.30.90
- agreement on the performance contract                   3.31.90
- creation of a financial branch                          1.31.92
3.5   SKOP (Soci6t6 mauritanienne de commercialisation de poisson
submission of a plan of action                                       3.31.90
- start-up of implementation, financial audit
Deadline Status
of accounts for fiscal year 1988                        3.31.90
- Implementation of plan of action for thL
record
3.6  AIR MAURITANIA:
- submission of a plan of action                          3.31 90
i Implementation of plan of action for the
record
- agreement on a performance contract                     9.30.90
i increase in domestic air transport rates               12.31.90
3.7 SONDMEX (Soci6t6 nationale d'import et d'export): (*)
- reduction in overhead costs
- cuts in staff numbers                                 12.31.90
_ closing of agencies
- freedom to negotiate service contracts
(insurance, handling etc.)
- eliminate monopoly                                    06.30.92



ANNEX V
Page I of 4
*  _ I          fI!      s l ;   iI  
'161
IL
I f    I St    &        XI S
a      @   le  e       |   t -4 



- 68  -                       ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
SIZ~~~
I3..                                   -0,iilJ
I        1!                                      i    ! q      l 



- 69                 ~~~~~ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
I                          1!
j~~
i                     wi
II.1      1   'E   |5                                     E
I       'ft       !                       '
2                     IS b,*!



Are"s of "aform
blwlvnt Action Already            Actloe to ib Tdnn ieor            2nd Trench Coditlos               8rd Trenche Condiblons
Taes nder SA4PE Projelt            bard Presntation of
PropoCed PEWA
- Reduction of SlM  stf           -  ostabi IInt of tmsoel          - demonatrate satisfatory         - complete and algn
by 27m end InitTiton of           itmct' unit to Minisr of          prorss In the financial           Performance contract with
gelablitetion maswres.           Plan                               perormoaen  of at least           OPT  and Padpa
halt of non-ategc   e
Adoptlon of long term                                             or phaset   out rim               - donstrato eatiefactory
stratey and  re       IRg                                           Gov't portfolio                   progres  t settling
of nam survillnco eye                                                                                 arrers
for fisebrie  sector                                                - deasusr ate satisfactory
progress in  ettling              - Setisfectory progres by
- lcriiti tariff for                                                arrars                            SiM In  mplnting its
*fectrlrkib  (35;4mf port                                                                             f linenciel and operatioal
(253), tole_ ,  scations         - Satisfactory progres by          - satisfactory progre  by         plan
(us) andair travl (193)          SlIM in ipl_i %ing Its             SNDI  In Implementing its
operationl pin                    finamnciel N   operatonal         - Satisfactory prog
- Agrsnt to privatize                                               plan                             towrds covering serance             o
JSNC, SC, FaMe MPourle                                                                                pay obligatlons an  other
en  to liquidate MAFCO,                                             - comple   nd sign                assInce to redundant
Sgim  and EN"                                                       pertormne contract with           labor
- Partial librlutiton of                                                                              - ieoustrat. eatisafctory
oorol  distribution,                                                -   plement stuy on               progre  In the financalo
llb care end public                                                 refInery (SOuza)                  performne of the
transport                                                                                             r-emining non-strategic PEi
or phas them out tfr
Gov't portfolio
March iBm 
Pe                                                                                                                                'aD 1h
Ilifls                                                                                                                             O    C
Policy 



-  71  -                       ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
NAURITANIAs FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1990 - 1992
REQUIREMENTS                                       (million US$)
SNnIt Financial Restructuring
- Capital increase                                      69
- Restructuring loans                                   50
119
Restructuring other enterprises                         25
Settlement of Government arrears to PE's                 8
Social Costs (severance pay and redeployment)            7
159
..,..m=
FINANCING
Arab Funds                                              50
Japan                                                   50
Spain                                                    5
Germany                                                  4
IDA                                                    40
IDA Reflows (to be approved)                            10
159
mm



- 72 -
-XVI
Pop 2 of 2
MARZTANAs PE UCR   AOJDJUSOAM
8st1is at of Gverment Arrs to PVr.
(all1. IIoUN)
7. 401 Arrease             WI  Air          S1P SNELEC PANPA   Tota
bisritanla
- armors before 1/1/00     8.7   I.   86.0    0.7    04    77n.0
- arr"er 9                 10.9    785.    60.2    7.0    -         410.5
- arrears PE's              15.0      7.9   15.0    U.0    -         218.0
(guaranteed by GM1
Totl                        5".2      .5   20.0    2.2    U1.$ 1,45.8
It. FE Arrme to            8.$    -          -      82.4    75.4   714.1
Nab du froo GM             2".9    M.$   2.9   (12.2)    0.1   000.2
(about US$1 .1III.o)



-  --    -    --  --    -    --  --    - --             ------                ----
- -i -i i   - - - -r  -                                            -- - - - - - - - - - - -
'~~i4hi3I V       TI!I[U~~ ifII 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ I It 
~~~                                j                                                     I  I   I~~Lt    Lt    
----------------             t!             -------                     --  ----  --



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - -                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - 
-   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -              - -   - -   - --- -   - --- -  
11  f B 5; e 5 5;S: S S; t; t: S a e s e el * e. t; t; X; I; vS ;; S Z * n                                a 
|         |IFF|   FF   Fi| f f f f   f                                                I f f   I       
*I          !
w~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S                                         M
I-- -        -    -   -    -   -    -
I ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~I C



- 75 -
Annex 8
Page I of 17
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC EETRPBSE SECTOR ADJUS?TIUI! P?IOUA
Societe Nationale Industrielle et Minire (SNIM)
A. Role of the Iron Ore Sector in the Economy
1.        SN111's iron ore mining operations are a mainstay of the Mauritanian
economy, and their development has been the chief determinant of the
country's economic growth.  They accounted ln 1989 for about 41 percent of
the country's export earnings and 19 percent of GDP generation. In addition
to their direct contribution to CDP, 8NDM's operations have an indirect
impact on GDP through value-added in the industrLal, construction and service
sectors.  SKIM employs about 4,500 persons.  As the country's only major
source of industrial expertise, it provides the living base for a major
portion of the population at Nouadhibou (70,000) and Zouerate (50,000),
Mauritania's two major populations centers outside the capital city of
Nouakchott. It contributes annually about UK 500 million (US$7 million) to
the government budget from the employee's personal income tax.
B. Iron Ore Resources
2.        SNDM mines two sites: Kedia and euelbs, located some 650 km inland
from the port city of Nouadhibou in the north of Mauritania. The Xedia depo-
sits contain high grade and low grade (siliceous) ores which do not require
treatment other than crushing and screening. The Kedia reserves are estima-
ted at 34 million tons (as of January 1, 1990), of which about 55 percent are
high grade and 45 percent low grade. At current extraction rates they are
expected to be depleted by 1995.
3.        A project was developed in the late 70's to mine and beneficiate
large low grade ore reserves at Guelbe (Guelb E1 Rhein, 350 million tons and
Guelb Oum Arwagen, 100 million tons). At that time, Guelbs was believed to
be the only large deposit suitable to replace the Redia reserves. The raw,
untreated Guelbs ore has an iron content of only 38Z and upgrading through
magnetic separation is required to produce a marketable product of 64Z Fe.
Due to the drop in iron ore prices, only about 250 million tons, or 551 of
the Guelbs reserves are economically recoverable at present prices. Since
about 2.3 tons of raw ore are needed to reduce 1 ton of marketable product,
the reserves are sufficient to operate the Guelbe beneficiation plant for
more than 25 years at an annual production level of 4 million tons.
4.        As a consequence of the production problems at Guelbs (para. 13)
SKIM started in 1986 an lntensive exploration effort focusing on some known
high grade occurrences in the vicinity of Guelbs. As a result, the Mhaoudat



- 76 -
deposit was delineated. The drilling carried out since July 1987 indicates
reserves of about 80 million tons (about 65 percent high grade and 35 per-
cent low grade), allowing a 5-6 million tpy operation over a period of about
15 years. The drilling results were reviewed and found acceptable by inter-
national mining consultants. 11  Although relatively small, M'haouadat pro-
vides SNIM with a promising opportunity to keep the present level of sales
after the Kedia deposits are depleted.
C.  SNIM: Backsround and the Bank's Role
5.        The Bank's involvement in the iron ore sector in Mauritania started
in 1960, when a Bank loan amounting to US$66 million was made to Societe Ano-
nyme des Mines de Fer de Mauritanie (MIFERMA), a company owned predominantly
by French, British, German and Italian Interests 21. It financed part of the
development of the Kedia iron ore deposits, the exploitation of which started
in 1963. Since the nationalization of MIFERMA in 1974, the Mauritanian iron
ores mines have been operated by Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
(SNIM), a state controlled corporation. SNIM's share capital is currently
held by the Mauritania government (70.9 percent), Kuwait Foreign Trading,
Contracting and Investment Company (9.6 percent), Arab Mining Company (7.6
percent), Iraq Fund for External Development (6.2 percent), Bureau de
Recherches et de Participations Minieres of Morocco (3.1 percent), Islamic
Development Bank (2.4 percent) and Mauritanian private shareholders (0.2
percent). In 1984, SNIM's headquarters were transferred from Nouakchott to
Nouadhibou. Mini-ig operations are directed from Zouerate, which is connected
by a 650 km railway to the port of Nouadhibou from which the ore is exported.
6.        The Bank has been instrumental in mobilizing considerable financial
resources to develop and sustain SWIM's operations.   In 1979, the Board
approved a US$60 million loan to SNIM to finance part of the Guelbs Iron Ore
Project, the development of a new iron ore mine, beneficiation plant and
infrastructure to replace the gradually depleting Kedia mines 31. The total
project cost were about US$500 million and it was financed with an US$120
million equity contribution, mainly from Arab sources and apart from the
Bank, loans from Arab funds, European donors, OECF and ADB. SNIM contributed
about US$43 million from its internal resources. To reduce the financial
risks and to provide SNIM with sufficient foreign exchange for its day-to-
day operations, the lenders signed the following agreements with SNIM, the
Central Bank of Mauritania, the Soc.'ete Gendrale of France and Law Debentures
of U.K. (Trustee): (i) a Security Agreement, which provide an unconditional
global assignment of revenues from iron ore salesg (ii) a Set-Aside Agree-
ment, which provide for the mechanlsm of setting aside debt service payments
and SNIM's foreign exchange needs for operations; and (lii) a Trust Deed,
which provides for the management of trust funds for debt service payments
1, Dr. Otto Gold Consulting Engineers of Germany
21 Loan 249-Fr, of March 15, 1960. The loan has been fully repaid.
3J   Loan 1747-MAU, of July 12, 1979.  Repayment of this loan started in
1984.



- 77 -
7.        In the early 1980s, SIKM started suffering managerial problems and
its productivity became relatively low.  Compounded by a drop in iron ore
prices and large debt service payments related to the Guelbs project, serious
cash deficits were projected, In spite of the fact that the actual construc-
tion cost of the Guelbs project were about US$33 mLllion below estimate. Soon
after the start-up of the Guelbs project, technical problems became apparent
(para 13). After consultation with its lenders including the Bank, SKIM
embarked in 1984 on a comprehensive rehabilitation program affecting its
organizational structure, personnel policies, as well as technical and finan-
cial management. In 1985, a third loan, amounting to US$20 million, was made
to SNIM to finance part of the Rehabilitation Project Al for the company,
designed to achieve productivity improvements as well as major modLfications
of the Guelbe plant SI. The Arab colenders agreed to make available unused
portions of their Guelbs loans and reschedule some loan repayments. The CCCE
made a new loan available for technical assistance for the Guelbe start-up.
Further financlal asssltance for the Rehablitistion Project was provided in
1987 by the ADB, the European Commnity (SYSHMT and EIB), the Kuwait Fund and
the CCCE. An overvlew of direct donor support to SNIM since 1979 is given
in Appendix 1.
D. Orianization and Management
8.         Although SKIM is a majority Government owned company, the Govern-
ment has provided SNHM 4th complete autonomy through explicit exemption from
the regular public enterprise legislation. The Board of Directors has dele-
gated most of its powers and authority for managing the daily operations to
the General Manager. A review of the management and organizational structure
was carried out In 1985. The organizatLonal structure was gradually simpli-
fied and the number of persons reporting directly to the general manager re-
duced from 10 to 6, SNIM's current organization structure is shown in
Arniendix 2. Responsibillty, authority and accountability of managers are
well deflned. Management changes were made when performance objectives were
not met. The current General Manager, appointed in February 1985, and SNIM's
management team have demonstrated determlnation and capability ln running an
efficient operation.
E.  Accountina. Budgettin  sand Information Systems
9.        SNIM disposes of fully operational and integrated cost accounting,
budgetary control and management information systems, which were introduced
and/or refined over the last few years. It Included the definition of strict
operating norms. These systems have been reviewed by subsequent Bank missions
and found satisfactory. SNHI's accounts are kept in accordance with interna-
tional accounting standards and over the last few years were certified wlth-
out qualiflcations by international auditors acceptable to IDA. Long tenm
financial projections are being revLewed and updated annually. It includes
detailed 5-year production and investment plans.
4/   The SNIM Rehabilitation Project is described in detail in the
appralsal report No. 5819-MAU, dated November 12, 1985.
Sl Loan 2643-MAU, of December 17, 1985. Repayment started in 1989.



- 78 -
F. Productivity Imnrovements
10.       Following SNIN's Rehabilitation program, the work force was reduced
reduced by 25 percent from a peak of about 6,000 in 1984 to about 4,500 at
present, primarily through a major lay-off action in March 1987, but also
through very selective replacement of departing staff over several years.
Simultaneously overtime utilization was curtailed and the number of
expatriates has dropped from about 400 in 1980, to about 60 at present. In
1989, as part of the drive to increase production, salary policies were
reviewed and an incentive structure linked to productivity improvements was
introduced. Considerable emphasis is given to training of staff. SNIM has
also started a program for key managers to visit operations of highly
efficient competitors to study and identify further productivity increases.
Effective use is being made of short term consultants, whenever a specific
problem occurs.
11.       Hajor overhaul of fixed installations was completed and control
over scheduled maintenance has been tightened.   Measures were taken to
improve spare parts management, including computerization of stocks and a
reorganization of warehouee staff.   Cost savings were achieved through
consolidation of the procurement and purchasing department, increase of
technical staff, creation of a purchase control commission, greater recourse
to International competition of suppliers and elimination of intermediaries.
Overhead costs were also substantially reduced. Apart from the transfer of
S=IM's headquarters from Nouakchott to Nouadhibou in 1984, its steel mill,
hotels. restaurants, clubs and supermarkets were spun-off. The size of SNIM's
Paris office was reduced. Three company airplanes were sold and SNIM is no
longer providing free electricity to its staff.
12.       Total cost savings achieved, so far, as a result of the rehabi-
litation program are estimated in the order of US$11 million per year. It
was achieved, in spite of continuing problems with the Guelbs beneficiation
plant.  In 1989, SIIM not only reached a record production level of 12
million tons, its average cash production costs (before depreciation and
interest), improved from US$ 11.2 per ton in 1987 to US$ 9.5 per ton in
1989 61. Production output per employee improved from 1690 tons of iron ore
per year in 1986 (before the major personnel reduction in 1987) to 2650 tons
per year in 1989. SNIM's mining cost compare well with its major competi-
tors, but its total average production cost are still somewhat higher,
because of the need fer beneficiation of the Guelbs ore.
G. The Guelbs Plant
13.       The new Guelbs operations, constructed with financial assistance
of multilateral and bilateral donors (para. 6) between 1980 and 1985,
consists of an open pit mine at Guelbs El Rhein, about 30 km north of
Zouerate, and a beneficiation plant designed to produce 6 million tpy of iron
ore concentrates by dry grinding and magnetic separation of the low-grade
Guelbs ore.   Despite technical assistance from well known engineering,
manufacturing and steel companies and from other qualified expatriate
61   More detailed production costs figures are available and have been
examined by Bank staff, but are not disclosed at SNIM's request.



- 79 -
personnel, supervision by an international committee of experts extensive and
early training of plant personnel at SNIM's Nouadhibou training center, early
involvement of SNIIM engineers in design and construction supervision.
adoption of a sophisticated and appropriate organizational structure, the
Guelbs plant experienced an unusual amount of start-up difficulties.
Originally, it was estimated that the plant would be in full production one
year after completion of its construction.
14.       While the Guelbs mine is a modern low cost and efficient operatiau,
which from the beginning produced as planned, the availability of the benefi-
ciation plant has only reached 352. Extensive pilot plant testing and care-
ful engineering have not been able to avoid errors in designing the plant's
process, in particular in relation to the big dry grinding mills, the heart
of the Guelbs plant. Key equipment has shown mechanical and electrical fai-
lures in excess of normal expectations. These are risks inherent to similar
projects in the metallurgical industry, in particular if a prototype process
and plant is involved 71.  In addition, dust generation at the mills and
major transfer points became a major hazard for plant operation.
15.         With assistance of a manager/engineer, who played a key role in
starting Carrol Lake, the only other plant comparable to SNIH's, an aDpro-
priate action program was formulated (Annendix 3), which is currently being
Implemented. The program includes steps to reduce dust leakages, modifica-
tion of the mill air circuit, better mill load control, as well as changes
in material flows. In October 1989, SNIM also made wide ranging managerial
changes. As a result of these actions, which will be completed by mid 1991,
it is expected that at least 802 of the plant availability and the hourly
throughput rate, as originally envisaged in 1979 during the project apprai-
sal, will be achieved. The reduction of availability and throughput rate
below the design value Is due to underestimation of the dust generation, to
wrong assumption of scaling-up factor from the pilot plant tests and to an
underestimation of ore hardness. Product specifications and recovery rates
for magnetic ore are as expected, there is however a problem of achieving the
estimated product qualities and quantities when treating oxidized ore. A
satisfactory research program for process modification is underway.
16.       Due to the reduced availability and throughput rate, a derating
of the nominal plant capacity of the Guelbs plant is necessary. However, the
current assessment is that once the action program is completed, a production
of at least 4 million tons of concentrate per year would be achievable, after
1991. The financial rate of return on the project, calculated at appraisal
in 1979 at 5.4S, will remain negative even taking into account the
implementation of the action program.  On the other hand, at its current
production level of 2 million ton per year, all direct fixed and variable
cash operating cost (before interest) are covered. Starting from l99l, all
71   Dry grinding mills similar to SNIM's are only existing at Carrol Lake
of International Iron Ore Company, Canada, where it also took a
relatively long time to reach full production. At the time, when the
Guelbs plant was designed, Carrol Lake was in the start-up phase. A
full transfer of experience was therefore not puFsible.



- 80 -
financial charges related to the Guelbs debt would also be fully covered.
Loan repayments w1il also be largely covered after 1995.
H. Markets and Iron Ore Prices
17.       Since 1986, SNIK's total sales increased from 8.9 million tons to
11.1 million tons in 1989. Four European countries -- Italy, France, Belgium
and Great Britain -- account for about 80S of the market for Mauritanian ore.
The remainder is exported mainly to USA and Japan. Since the early 1980's
and even at the time when European iron ore markets were particular depres-
sed, SNDM has consistently been able to sell about 9 million tons per year,
accounting for 7 percent of the European seaborne iron ore market. In 1982
and 1983, however, its sales dropped to *bout 7.5 million tons, not because
of the market, but because of production difficulties. It ls only since 1988
that SNIM has been able to increase production to over 10 million tons. Com-
bined with increased marketing efforts, SNIM has been able to progrer"iively
increase its sales. SKIM has built a very stable client base and about 80X
of its sales are made on the basis of long-ternm supply contracts or letters
of intent for which the quantity is determined every one or two years. As
is the practice in the Industry, prices are fixed on an annual basis. For
1990, firm contracts are In hand to maintain at least the 1989 sales level
of 11 million tons.
18.       While SNIM has been able to maintain its market share, the world
iron prices have not been very stable. For SNIM, the average ore revenue
per ton fluctuated from USS 15.1 In 1987, to US$ 13.7 in 1988 and US$ 15.5
in 1989 in current terms _8. Exchange rate fluctuations have amplified the
impact on SNIM's financial situation. In constant terms, expressed in major
European currencies, the 1989 iron price was about 40S lower than that of mid
1985. This has had significant Impact on SWIM's finances, since about two
thirds of SNIM's supplies come from Europe (representing about 40S of its
total cash expenditures), whlle its revenues are in US dollars.
gj   In constant terms, fob Nouadhibou prices dropped by 4S from 1987 to
1989 (as measured by the unit value index in US dollar terms of
manufactures from the G-S countries). Measured in constant 1977
terms, f.o.b Nouadhibou prices dropped 45S from 1977 (USS16.9/t) to
1989 (US$9.31t).



- 81 -
I.  SNIM's Recent Financial Performance
19.       SNIM's recent financial performance is stumArized in the table
below (for details see An2endix 4):
SNIM Selected Financial Indicators 1987-1989 (USS million)
198l         1988        1989
Sales Volume (million tons)                 9.0         10.0          11.1
Average Ore Revenue, US$St                 15.1         13.7          15.5
Average Cost of Goods Sold USSIt a/        11.2         10.7           9.5
Total Revenues                            145.7        145.3         183.5
Total Production Costs                    122.3        122.6         159.6
Net Income                                (11.8)        (4.9)          3.5
Gross Internal Cash Generation             38.4         31.0          77.8
Debt service                               62.0         53.2          56.6
Net Internal Cash Generation              (23.6)       (22.2)         21.2
Investments                                20.1         16.1          33.4
Accumulated Cash                          (12.3)       (18.5)        (10.3)
Ratios:
Current Ratio                               0.7          0.6           0.7
LTD Debt Equity Ratio                       1.7          1.6           1.4
Debt Service Ratio                          0.6          0.6           1.4
____________________________
a/ before depreciation and interest
20.       Despite the unfavorable developments in the world market iron ore
prices, foreign exchange fluctuations and difficulties related to the opera-
tion of the Guelbs plant, SNIM's cost savings measures have enabled it to
generate a substantial positive cash flow from its operations over the last
three years.   The increase in production cost In 1989, results from the
incorporation of the depreciation charges for Guelbs; 1989 vas considered
the first year of commercial production. Although SNID's average cash pro-
duction cost of goods sold, improved from US$11.2/ton in 1987 to US$9.5/ton
in 1989, it was not sufflcient to resolve its principal problem namely, the
servicing of its long term debt (US$338 million December 31, 1989). Most of
the debt is related to the Guelbs. An additional problem for SNIM is that
about half of its debt is denominated in US dollars or currencies which
closely follow the value of the dollar. The other half is in currencies
which, from 1987 to 1989, have generally appreclated vis-a-vis the dollar.
After meeting its debt service obligations, SNIM's net internal cash
generation was negative in 1987 and 1988. In 1989, because of continuing
productivity improvements and debt relief from France amounting to about
US$13 million, SNDM's net internal cash generation amounted to US$21 million.
For the first time in years SNI4 recorded in 1989 a modest net proflt of
US$3.5 million.



- 82 -
21.       The various security and trust arrangements put in place for the
original Guelbs project in 1979 (para. 6), which were extended to the loans
provided for the Rehabilitation Project have assured that SNIM has always
met its interest and repayment obligations. But to accomplish ft, SNIM had
to resort to overdraft financing and has been building up its accounts
payable. In some cases suppliers credit has gone up to 180 days, which is
not only well above industry standards, but also costly. SINM has, during
1989, been able to reduce some of its bank overdrafts and suppliers credits,
but by the end of 1989 its current liabilities still amounted to US$134
million. About half of it represents the current portion of long term debt
and the rest arrears to suppliers, insurance companies, social security dues,
workers retained income taxes, as well as bank overdrafts. Over the last
three years, SNHM's current ratio has therefore, remained at an unsatisfac-
tory level of about 0.7. Its debt service ratio improved from 0.6 in 1987
to 1.4 in 1989, partly because of the debt relief and partly due to improved
cash generation.
J. Need for Further Actions
22.       The past rehabilitation efforts supported by the Bank and other
donors have focussed on improving SNIM's productivity and on implementing of
an action program for the Guelbe plant aimed at increasing production to at
least 4 million tons per year. Lenders have supported SNIM's rehabilitation
efforts by providing financing for improvements and rationalization of pro-
duction capacity at relatively concessional terms. In addition, the Govern-
ment has temporarily suspended the collection of royalties on the sale of
iron ore and has passed on to SNIM the benefits of Paris Club debt relief
and rescheduling. However, despite the good progress with the implementation
of the productivity improvements and other measures, SINM's survival in the
long run is still not assured. To service its total outstanding long term
debt of US$338 million, most of which is related to the Guelbs plant SNIM
would have to generate a positive cash flow ranging from US$ 40 to 50 million
per year for the next four to five years. Even with the Guelbe production
targets and overall production targets, this does not appear possible, given
the outlook on world market iron ore prices (para 38).
K. Obiectives
23.       The overall goal of SNIM is the production of about 10 to 11
million tons of iron ore a year for the next 15 years at prices that are
competitive on world markets. To maintain a production of about 10 million
tons, SINM will neei to increase production of its Guelbs plant to about 4
million tons per year. At the same time, it would need to begin development
of the new high grade iron ore deposit at nearby M'Haoudat (over 80 million
tons of reserves) to replace the depleting iron ore resources mined at Kedia.
In order to continue to produce iron ore competitively, it is essentiel that
SHIM be also restructured financially.   The objective of the financial
restructuring is to generate a level of cash reserves to ensuret (i) an
adequate level of mining operations with reasonable levels of working
capital; (ii) retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced managers
and staff, including expatriates; (iii) that debt service obligations are
met; and (iv) that SINM can make a reasonable contribution to its future
investments, including M'haoudat.



- 83 -
24.       The achievement of these objectives depends on the successful
continuation and implementation of the following interdependent actionst
(i)       strict adherence to productivity and other efficiency
criteria, introduced over the last couple of years and
completion of the investments and other actions to
further  improve  productivity.    This  includes  the
completion of the action program for the Guelbs plant to
increase the production capacity to at least 4 million
tons of concentrate per year;
(ii)      iplementation of the M'haoudat mining project to
replace the depleting Kedia resources; and
(iii)     implementation of the proposed financial restructuring
program;
L. Further Productivity ImDrovements
25.       Apart from the implementation of the Guelbs action program as des-
cribed in para. 13 to 16, SNIM is looking for further possibilities to im-
prove maintenance, spare parts management and purchasing. It will continue
to seek advice and training from consultants, aimed at increasing direct
responsibility of staff for maintenance (mainly for the diverse mobile mining
equipment), further reducing downtime and improving procedures for spare
parts management. Once its financial situation will permit it, SNIM will
further diversify its sources of supply and negotiate better payment terms.
The donor assistance provided in 1987 within the framework of the Rehabilita-
tion Project (pars. 7) also helped financing the replacement of worn railway
track sections, some overage railway locomotives, mobile mining equipment and
improvement of telecommunication and workshop equipment. Most of the procu-
rement has been completed and installation is expected to be completed by
1991. Although the modernization is mainly necessary to secure production
in the longer run, an additional annual saving of about US$1 to 3 million per
year is expected, mainly from fuel and reduced spare parts needs, after all
the new equipment is in operation.
26.       SNIM also intends to engage the services of investment bankers to
help them deal effectively against changes in exchange rates, iron ore prices
and interest rates.
M. M'haoudat Proiect
27.       SNIM envisages to implement the Mhaoudat project over the next few
years. Ex,oloration and preparation of the feasibility study were carried out
by SNIM steff in a highly professional and motivated manner. A well known
internatioral mining consultant 91 audited SNIM's work and found it compati-
ble witb accepted international standards.  Bank staff also reviewed SINM's
work and found it satisfactory. Geology, mining methods, ore crushing and
handling are very close to the Kedia operations for which SNIM has accumu-
lated vast experience and demonstrated good managerial capabilities.  The
9I   Dr. Otto Gold Consulting Engineers of Germany.



- 84 -
project consists of opening-up initially three relatively small, but highly
accessible and simple open pits, of installing a central primary and secon-
dary ore crushing station, together with an ore storage and train loading
facility and of extension of infrastructure, such as the railway spur and
power line.
28.       The total project cost in 1990 prices are estimated at US$140
million. The rate of return of the project, based on anlk projections for
iron ore prices, SMI's production target of 5.9 million tons per year and
conservatlve assumptions about implementation period and operating costs,
would be 12S. A SZ lower iron ore price would reduce the rate of return to
9.  It is unlikely, that the output of the project would be lower than
planned.  In fact, by operating on three shifts, SNM14 should be able to
produce up to 7 million tons per year. This would improve the rate of return
to 16?.
N. Proposed Financial Restructuring
29.       The objective of the financial restructuring, of which the prin-
ciples were approved in a donors meting held in Paris on February 28 and
March 1. 1990, is not only to ensure that the financial burden resulting from
the difficulties of the Guelbs iron ore project are substantially reduced by
providing further debt rellef, but also to restore SIM'Vs working capital
position and enable it to maintain its current production levels in the long
ruan. The financial restructuring takes therefore into account the need for
SIM to make a substantial contribution (about USS 34 million in 1990
dollars) towards the cost of the new M'haoudat mine. This is essential for
maintaining in the long-run SNIM's debt servlce and debt equity ratios at
acceptable levels.   The need to maintain these ratios has been one the
principal factors for determining the amount of additional financing
required.
30.       Apart from the continued emphasis on productivity lmprovements,
the proposed financial restructuring would be achieved through a combination
of (i) debt relief from France and Japan; (11) capitalization by the Govern-
ment of past taxes and other liabilitieso  (11l) an increase of SNIM's share
capital by the Government from the counterpart funds of the proposed
operationg and (iv) the provision of a restructuring loan from the Arab funds
at relatively concessional terms.  While France and Japan have agreed to
provide substantial direct debt relief and debt rescheduling, SNIM's
remaining creditors which are mostly multilateral and Include IBRD, SIB, ADB
and various Arab funds cannot do so.   The proposed capital lncrease and
restructuring loan, will however, enable SNIM to eliminate its short-term
debt and retire some of its relatively expensive long-term debt prior to
maturity.



- 85 -
31.        The proposed financing plan for SNIRPe financial restructuring,
part of which has already been provided In 1989. is as followst
USS million
Provided in 1989   Proposed
1. Japanese debt relief and rescheduling                          21.7
2. French debt relief and rescheduling            12.6            29.2
3. Government tax capitalization                   7.8
4. Other Government capitalization                 8.2
5. Restructuring loan from Arab funds                             50.0
6. Capital increase                                               69.0
28.6           169.9
Grand Total                               198.5
In additLon, avoided Interest costs as a result of debt cancellation
amount to US$ 7.8 million for the Japanese loans and US$ 12.3 million
for the French loans over the period 1989 to 2005.
32.       Without the financial restructuring,  SNIM would soon be in a very
difficult financial situation and would likely have to default on its long
term debt, including the IBRD loans. Apart from the negative social effects
due to the loss of employment, the Government, as guarantor of most of SNIM's
debt, would still be obliged to service it. It would also jeopardize the
flnalization of the financing package for the M'haoudat project.   As
explained in the previous paragraphs, SNIM would not be able to compete in
the world markets on the basis of the Guelbs operation only.   It would
eventually lead to the liquidation of SNIM.
0. Disbursement and Use of Funds
33.       The Japanese debt relief and rescheduling, whlch has already been
approved within the framework of the Paris Club, translates itself into an
annual refund of future debt service obligations until the year 2005. For
the additional French debt cancellation of US$29.2 million equivalent, arran-
gements are being formalized. The Government has agreed to pass on to SINM
the benefits of the French and Japanese debt relief and rescheduling. The
restructuring loan from the Arab funds is expected to be provided at an
Interest rate not exceeding SZ per annum and is proposed to be disbursed in
5 annual installments of about US$ 10 million equivalent against a positive
list of SNIM imports of goods, materials and spare parts.   Part of the
contribution from the Arab funds will be provided in the form of a
*rearrangement" of debt service obligations.   The net effect on SNIM's



- 86 -
operating cash flow will, however, be the same. The details are expected to
be communicated by September 1990. The proposed capital increase of US$69
million equivalent would be largely funded out of the counterpart funds of
the proposed PESECAL provided and disbursed to SNIM in three tranches of US$
30, 19 and 10 million in respectively 1990, 1991 and 1992. In addition, it
is proposed that Mauritania be eligible for IDA reflows, which would provide
an additional US$10 million.   These funds would be disbursed to the
Government as supplementary credits up to the equivalent of the interest due
on the IBRD loans over the next 5 years.
34.       SKIM would first use the available funds to normalize its working
capital situation.   This would include paying off its Bank overdraft and
settling of the remaining obligations to the Government, and allow SNDM to
bring its credit from its suppliers to normal industry standards (initially
90 days, there after 60 days). The additional equity would also ensure that
SNIM would continue to be in a position to service its remaining long term
debt and provide it with a hedging cushion against foreign exchange and other
risks.
35.        It is currenitly anticipated that about US$15 million of SNIM's
"cash reserve", be used to retire in 1991, prior to maturity some of its long
term debt, which wap provided at relatively high interest rates. Other loans
with relatively high interest rates (loans from the IBRD, EIB and ADD) will
be fully repaid by 1994. Early repayment of these loans would absorb the
necessary cash needed to maintain a satisfactory working capital position.
The donors concerned have agreed to the principle of prepayment of part of
the relatively expensive long term debt, but formal approval needs to be
obtained by SNIM. A larger prepayment of debt might be desirable if SKIM's
financial situation has improved more than currently anticipated. Signing
of a financing agreement between the Government and SKIM on the use of the
counterpart funds, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
P. Tentative Financing Plan for the M'haoudat Project
36.       Total project cost of the M'haoudat project, including physical
and price contingencies, are estimated at about US$160 million 10/. During
a meeting of cofinanciers on February 28 and March 1, 1990, Kuwait, Saudi
and and other Arab funds, CCCE, EIB and ADB have indicated, subject to their
respective appraisal procedures, to provide between US$120 and US$135 million
towards financing of the M'haoudat project.  SNIM is expected to provide
about US$34 million from its own resources. The funds are expected to be
mobilized at the latest by early 1991 and the financing plan and project
management arrangements would be subject to approval by IDA.   SNIM is
planning to start first production in 1993.  Full capacity would then be
reached in 1995.
10/ About US$140 million in constant terms.



- 87 -
Q. Medium and Long Term Market and Iron Ore Price Outlook
37.       Long-term prospects for the iron ore industry show a tendency
towards limited growth ill. Demand for iron ore is not expected to increase
rapidly in any country. Even the good growth prospects in China and the new
industrializing economies are not expected to improve the ore price prospects
for iron ore.   Australia and Brazil, with their ample capacity and low
production costs, will be the main beneficiaries from any improvements in the
growth prospects of the iron ore industry in the 19909. The European steel
industry has gone through major restructuring and is expected to continue
operations at present production levels.  SHIM has a relatively small share
of the total European market and it is expected to be able maintain it at a
sales level of around 10 to 11 million tons per year. particularly given its
relatively strong position in the European iron ore market and solid
relations with its major clients. Also, iron ore reserves are being depleted
in Liberia and prospects are limited for any new iron ore projects in Africa.
SNIM offers European steel mills diversification from supply sources in
Brazil and Australia. Although Mauritanian ores contain comparatively high
levels of silica, whlch some modern steel mills regard as penalty, they do
not contain other impurities and are therefore well suited for blending with
low silica ore, which would be increasingly available after the Brazilian
Carajas project reaches full production.
S8.       Iron ore prices, in constant terms, are expected to remain fairly
stable at the 1989 level through 1991, but thereafter a gradual decline
until 1995 to a level about 12Z lower is predicted.  By 2000 prices are
expected to recover slightly to a level of lOZ below the 1989 price level
121.
K. Medium and Long Term Financial Outlook
39.       The financial projections for SNIM prepared in constant (December
1989) US dollars are based on (i) depletion of the Kedia mines, increased
production from the Guelbs and the development of the M'haoudat mine by late
1993 to maintain a production level of 10 to 11 million tons per year; (ii)
adherence to productivity efficiency levels; {iii) implementation of the
proposed fintncial restructuring and (iv) iron ore prices in line with the
latest IBRD commodity forecast. Detailed financial projections are given in
Appendix 4 and summarized belows
ill Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts and Quarterly Review of
Commodity Markets--December 1989.
12/ IBRD, Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts and Quarterly Review of
Commodity Markets -- December 1989, January 22, 1990.



- 88 -
SUNM Selected Financial Indicators 1989-2000
(Constant US$ million)
1989   1990   1992   1992   1995   2000
Sales Volume (million tons)  11.1   11.0   11.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Average Ore Revenue, US$St   15.5   16.1   15.7   15.3   14.0   14.3
Average Cost of Goods Sold al 9.5    9.8    9.9   10.5   11.0   11.5
Total Revenues               183.5  185.6  181.8  162.0  147.8  150.5
Total Production Costs       159.6  149.4  147.7  142.0  151.1  18.5
Net Income (loss)              3.5   19.9   18.7    4.8  (15.3)  (5.4)
Gross Internal
Cash Generation              77.8   78.0   72.6   56.5   37.4   35.3
Debt Servlce bI               56.6   77.2   62.6   48.6   29.6   32.3
Net Internal Cash Generation 21.2    0.8   10.1    7.9    7.7    3.0
Investments                   33.4   31.5   66.4   57.5    7.0    5.0
Accumulated Cash             (10.3)   1.0   11.0   23.5   34.8   28.9
Ratioss
Current Ratio                  0.7    1.4    2.6    2.7    3.8    3.1
LTD Debt Equity Ration         1.4    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.6
Debt Serwice Ratio             1.4    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.1
at Before depreciation and interest
bI Includes in 1990 French debt cancellation of US$29.2 million and in 1991
US$15 million prepayment of debt.
40.       The positive effects of the proposed financial restructuring are
best shown in the substantial improvement from 1989 to 1990 of SNIM's current
ratio (.07 to 1.4), reflecting the first capital increase and its use to
strengthen SINI's working capital position.   The improvement of the debt
equity ratio ( 1.4 to 0.9), reflects the debt cancellation.  The further
capital increases, together with the restructuring loan from the Arab funds
will be used to retire some of the more expensive long term debt and enable
SNDI to self-finance part of the M'haoudat project. The debt equity ratio
will initially not further improve, because SNIM will have to start borrowing
for the M'haoudat project. The current ratio is expected to be maintained
at about 3, which is desirable, given SNIM's exposure to both foreign
exchange and international price fluctuations. SNM is expected to have a
negative net income during most of nineties.   This is partly to the
relatively high depreciation charges for both the Guelbs and the M'haoudat
project, but also because the average cost of goods sold is expected to
increase due to the higher share of Guelbs production in SNIN's total output.
The critical ratio remains the debt service ratio. The set-aside and trust
agreements will remain into force and are expected to be applied to the loans
for the M'haoudat project.
41.       The financial projections have been prepared in constant dollar
terms, because it tends to present a more conservative picture. It tends to
somewhat overstate the weight of SNIN's debt service obligations. Host of
SNIX's revenues come from its iron ore sales which are made in US dollars,
while approximately 60? of its direct operating costs are also In foreign



- 89 -
currency.   Both can be assumed to be subjected to the same level of
international inflation. SNDM's major and virtually only local costs are its
personnel costs (US$35 million equivalent in 1989). They are expected to
remain constant in US dollar terms. If the value of the UN would depreciate
more against the US dollar than the rate of international inflation, it is
likely to have a positive rather than a negative effect on SUfl's finances.
S. Sensitivity Analyses
42.       SNIM's future financial position has been examined considering (L)
a further 51 reduction in real terms of the price of iron ore; (it) a 5S
reduction in real terms of the price of iron ore, combined vith maintaining
the production level at 11 million tons per year: and (11i) maintain the 1989
iron ore price level throughout the projected period. The key results are
presented in the table belows
Sensitivity Anallses: Key Indicators (million USS)
Cumulative   1990 - 1995
MA   ("i)        (IsII
Iron Ore with         1989
Price     Productlon  Price
Base Case  Down 52   increase    Level
Total Revenues            986      948      1004      1014
Net Income                 10     (28)         6           58
Net Internal
Casa Generation            27     (11)        23           74
43.       As expected, SNrM's financial performance is highly sensitive to
variations in prices. A long-term decrease in iron ore prices will have to
be compensated by a production increase to about 11 mlllion tons. This is
technically feasible as SIND has demonstrated during 1989. To handle short
term fluctuations, SNIM needs to maintain the relatively high current ratio
as foreseen in the financial projections. Debt service ratios are conside.
rably more favorable if iron ore prices would increase.   In that case,
resumption of dividend (and/or royalty or tax) payments would become pos-
sible.  A one year delay in the opening of the M'haoudat would not sig-
nificantly change the situation and is technically feasible because of the
remaining Kedia reserves.   However,  if further delays are incurred on
M'haoudat, it could become more difficult to extract the Kedia ore without
incurring additional costs and the risk that the company's production would
temporarily drop, would increase.



- 90 -
T. Risks
44.       The financial risks facing SNIM remain substantial.  The primary
sources are the adverse development of the iron ore prices and the foreign
exchange fluctuations. The iron ore price forecast assumed in the financial
projections is based on a thorough analysis of market prospects. This reduces
the risk. It is further reduced by the possibility to increase sales, which
given SNIM's market position and production capacity should be possible.
SNIM's exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations cannot be avoided, but the
financial restructuring will not only help to reduce its debt service obli-
gations, which are a major part of its foreign exchange expenditure, but it
also provides SNIMK with sufficient cash reserves, to better manage the poten-
tial risks. In addition, lenders are protected through the existing security
and trust arrangements and SNIM will engage the services of investment
bankers to advice them how foreign exchange risk can further be reduced.
45.       The management risks are considered small.  SNIM management has,
over the last couple of years demonstrated its capability to introduce cost
saving measures and maintain strict performance criteria. They have conti-
nued to make efficient use of technical and financial advice and managed the
company well under difficult  financial  situations.   A continuous  and
intensive training program has enhanced the quality of its staff. Top mana-
gement has shown its commitment to the financial restructuring program and
to the M'haoudat project.  The risk of Government interference in SNIM's
daily operations is considered small. Over the last years the Government
has, as other shareholders, participated in SNIM's policy decisions through
its representatives in the Board of Directors. Under the proposed project,
it has clearly stated to continue its current policy.
46.       The technical risks on the Guelbs beneficiation plant have been
reduced to the minimum by the extensive, highly qualified technical assis-
tance, which is helping SNIM to successfully complete the Guelbs action pro-
gram. The technical risks for the implementation of the M'haoudat project
are limited due to the thorough preparatory work, the quality of which has
been confirmed by independent consultants. Moreover, since it is a very
similar operation to the Kedia mine, SNIM has considerable experience in
successfully managing and operating a project of this type.
U. Benefits
47.       SY.M remains a valuable asset for Mauritania, because of its capa-
city to getierate foreign exchange for the Mauritanian economy as well as a
major modern sector employer. From 1990 through 1995, SNIM's gross foreign
exchange earnings are expected to amount to about US$ 985 million. The net
foreign exchange inflow in constant terms, during this period, -iould amount
to about US$230 million, after taking into account foreign exchange expendi-
ture for operations (US$ 440 million) and debt service (US$ 315 million).
The net foreign exchange earnings during the period 1990 through 2000 are
estimated at about US$430 million.
48.       'hile SNIM's total number of personnel is expected to stabilize
at around its current level of 4,500 persons, it will continue to provide
the living base for a major portion of the population of Nouadhibou and
Zouerate. It would continue to contribute annually to the Government budget



- 91 -
about USS 6 million equivalent from the employee's personal income tax. Vith
the funds made available from the first tranche, SNIM would also settle its
remaining tax arrears to the Government and pay off its overdrafts to the
local banks, thereby creating room for other sectors of the economy. Under
the conservative assumptions used for the financial projections, the possibi-
lities for dividend or tax payments will be limited.  If however, world
market price developments (or foreign exchange fluctuations) would be more
favorable than predicted, it would become a real possibility.
V. Increased Private Sector Particination
49.       Legally, there are no obstacles for increasing the private sector
shareholdings in SNIM. However, considering SNHIM's current financial situa-
tion and prospects for resumption of dividend payments, it cannot be conside-
red an attractive investment for the private sector. On the other hand, once
the financial restructuring is completed, including the mobilization of funds
for the M'haoudat project, private investors and/or foreign steel industries,
might be interested to take a substantial participation. SNIM could benefit
from having a larger private sector representation in its Board of Directors.
The Government will attempt to seek more private sector participation once
the restructuring has been completed.
V. Environmental ImDact
50.       SNIM's mining operations have a low impact on the environment, due
to favorable geological and geographical conditions and the use of modern
mining equipment. There is relatively little waste material from the mines,
due to the low overburdenlore ratio. The material consists of solid, inert
rock and is deposited in a safe manner in rugged mountain valleys next to the
mine, in an uninhabited desert area without rainfalls. The rejects of the
totally dry Guelbs beneficiation process are equally inert and are stacked
in low, safe benches with modern stacking equipment next to the plant. Dust
generation within the Guelbe plant is relatively high, but a study carried
out by the International Labo:  organization, Geneva, concluded that the
health risk is acceptable. Moreover, the measures under way to improve the
plant availability will also considerably reduce the dust load in the plant.
SNIM is monitoring semi-annually the health of staff employed in the plant
and generally, the health record of the Guelbs staff is good.
X. Reliortina and Auditing
51.       As part of the reporting requirements under the SNIM Rehabilita-
tion Project SNIM has been submitting the following regular reports: (i)
monthly telexes, within 10 days of the end of each vonth, with key financial
and technical data; (ii) quarterly management and financial reports within
60 days after the end of each quarter; (iii) a yearly update of its 5-years
financial projections.   These requirements will be maintained under the
proposed operation.  The specific performance criteria include, maintaining
production costs at levels foreseen in the financial projections, a current
ratio progressively increasing to 3 and maintaining a projected debt service
ratio not lower than 1. Under the existing loan agreements, SNIM would also
continue to be required to have its accounts audited by auditors acceptable
to the Bank and submit them not later than 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year.



- 92 -
52.       Before each tranche release, SNIHes performance vould be judged
against the information presented in the above mentioned reports. A finan-
cing plan and project management rrangments satisfactory to IDA for the
IVhaoudat project would be an additional condition of the second tranche
release.



|  }                   S f        X I            || I  |V!   I 
I1        I'      E                                    II:  l    t  
III~~~   I 1|  :-X a!1    z I                                  t!!!
I!~~~ -leee f                                  1:QlSiW
I ~~  I!           I                  igIiFiiist



- 94 -                     Appendix II:
r~~~~ 0 0
o0   0   0 a
I _       _      i    i        
II~~~~ .5   o1 



95
SLM - PROGRAM OF MAJOR ACTIONS- 10A GE-L-S PLANT                     Appendix III
ACTION                   STATU8S  T ARGITS
(a)  Strengthen            employ consultant for       Started in November
management            overall manAgeaent          19866 on-going. 2-S
and plant maintenace       iuterventions per
year of 3-S weeks
duration.
employ consultant for      Started in June 198S6
engineering of plant       all major design work
modification               completed, assistance
continuing on an as
needed basis for
aupervision of
construction
employ consultant for      Started In March
training                   1989. combined with
consultant services
for overall
management nd plant
maintenance
asesgn new plant           New plant manager was
smangement                 assigned October 1989
2.  Improwe plant          install major dust          disaontling of
filters at magnetic        redndant filters
separation                 from mill air circuit
started January 1990.
reassembly at
magnetic separation
to be completed June
1990
change mill air            orderc for equipment
circuit from pacrtial      have been placed.
recycling to lOOS          installation to be
open                       completed by March
1991
install electronic         was Installed in
mil load control           March 1989
reinforce reclaLmers       order has been
for feeding crushed        placed. modification
ore to mills               to be completed by
December 1990.
improve transfer of        order for equipment
ground ore to              has been placed.
magnetic separation        modification to be
completed by March
1991
S.  Achieve targets        produce 2 NtIa              has been achieved in
11                                                1989
produce 2.3 Mt/s           to be achieved In
1990
produce 3.5 Mt/a           to be achieved in
1991
11   Hinimm production targets for period of executing the plant
modifications.



ASE6 CASE
Cow  I NDPF                             05/29/90                     FIVACAI. OJEMtNS SN4: 19N87-20D0
KEY ASSfWIOt AN RATIaC"
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    194    L998    1996    1997    199             1999    2000
- - --    -.- -    - -- .-                         - - --    - - --    - - --    - - --    - - --  ..  - --
1. BASIC ASSUWTI8Zi
- Zefatlto. led.,                       1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
- Irn  Ore  tnd.,                      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.08    1.00    0.97    0.94    0.91    0.88    0.89    0.89    0.09    0.90    0.90
- Sales Volu_.                          9.0    10.0    11.1    11.0    11.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
there of: du*lbs         ~~~~~~~~~.... Ei   .... .:4 .... i....... .i .... i....... .i .... i....... .:i .... i....... .:i .... ia   .... .:i .....:   ...... ........ ........... ............ ........... ......
thee of: duelba                       1.8      1.9     2.1      2.      8 .8     8.7     8.7      8.7      4.1      4.1     4.1      4.1     4.1      4.1
Hhaaudat                   0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      O.       3.08    8.9      8.9      8.9     8.9      5.9      5.9
MCd                         7.7     8.1      9.0     0.8      7.8     8.8      s.8      2.6      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      C o
- Reerv.: Gwelbr                              281.0   255.4   248.1   2a8.2   227.6   217.1   206.6   194.8   188.1   171.4   169.7   147.9    8.2
Nhaoudat                           80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    79.8    78.7    69.8    88.9    88.0    62.T    46.2    40.8
Kedia                              60.8    42.8    84.8    26.8    20.8    14.7    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2
2.  E FPW4CIAL DATA t
- ore revenue.                       s16.8   186.8   172.9   176.6   172.9   188.2   146.8   148.7   189.6   141.1   141.1   141 .1   142.7   142.7
. Total revenue.                      148.7   148.8   188.8   188.6   181.8   162.0 o        .    1 2.0   147.8   149.2   149.2   149.1   180.8   150.8
- Totl production coat                122.8   12.6   16s9.6   149.4   147.7   142.0   148.2   152.8   181.1   149.2   149.8   149.8   149.8   148.8
-Na Income (Poe.)                    (11.8)   (4.9)    8.8    19.9    18.7        4.8a   (4.0)   (13.8)   (18.8)   (11.8)   (11.1)  (10. 1)   (7. 1)   (8.4)
a rce" Internal cashalw nration       88.4    81.0    77.8    78.0    72.6    68.5    49.8    48.4    87.4    88.0    87.0    88.9    8.4    85.3                           .
- Debt service                         62.0    88.2    86.6    77.2    62.6    48.6    80.8    42.7    29.68    8.0    82.1    85.6   384.2    82.8                          0'
Intaret A Other. FC                28.4    20.8i    ooi 2    i0. i    i6  i   182 18.0    382           11       1.      1.        9       8.4      7.2
. Principal repayMnte                88.6    82.8    36.2    60.9    47.2    83.3    88.4    29.8    17.6    19.7    21.8    26.0    28.9    2S.0
Net intarnal =e   en.raton          (25.6)  (22.2)   21.2       0.8   O1.1       7.9    (0.8)    0,9       7.7     7.0      4.8      0.2      2.2     8.0
- Invtnts                              20.1    1.1      8.4       1.8       4    87. a    8 0      12.0      7.0     7.0      8.0      8.0     8.0      6.0
- Ceh surplus deficit                   0 S              8.2    11.8    10.0    12.85   t48)   12.1          9.8      1.1     0.1     ?.) S    2.)   u.s)
- Accumulated cesh                    (18.3    )       (10.8)    1.0    11.0    2.8     19.2    81.8    848    3 89    8.0              .     S.         .9
- Retained earnin                      10.7     8.8      9.      29.2    47.9    82.7    48.6    88.1    19.8         .8s   (2.6)  (12.7)  (19.8)  (25.2)
1987    1988    1989    190    191    1992    s 1998    19          199S    1998    1997    1998    199    2X0
3. 1Ef RATIOS:
- COuerrnt atio                         0.7     0.6      0.7      1.4     2.6      2.7     2.8      4.0      8.8     8.6      8.1      8.0     8.0      8.1
- Long ter det b   ity ratio            1.7     1.6      1.4     0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.8      0.8     0.7      0.6
- Debt ervlca rtIo                      0.6     0.6      1.4      1.0     1.2      1.2     1.0      1.0      1.8      1.2     1.2      1.0     1.1      1.1
- Se  financIng r tio (3)              -118S   -1885      6s8      2       i 8n     143     -Is       as    1OS    10o0        975       so     42t      on9
(Thrac yeae eovlng av*rer)                     -123       os      85       4S       aS      20       4S     2a0      S4t      245     16       in
4. UNIT DATA U5 OOUAtS P8E TOM t
- Avera  ore rvu                       18.1    18.7    18.8    16.1    18.7    1.8    14.8    14.4    14.0    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.8    14.8
- Averag  oat of good. saId:           11.2    10.7      9.8      9.8     9.9    10.8    10.7    10.8    11.0   1.1    11.2    11.8    11.4    11.5
(kfore depreciatlon  nd intaret)



a68 CASE
OS/2/90                MRITMA: SND FDNANCIAL PRJECTISM
DCUE STATo         DS    W   OLLARS)
19U7    1968    1969    1900    1991    1992    1998    1994    1"9     19e    19?7   199      1999    2000
ID:ATSIN ISNDE                          ;.00    1.00    1.00    i.o0    1.00    i.00oo 1.00    1.00    1.0    10    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
ORE REAS                              186.8   188.8   172.9  176.6  172.9   1.2   14.S   143.7   189.6   141.1   141.1   141.1   142.7  142.7
OTHER  6EVI18                          9.4    8.S    10.6    9.0    8.9    8.^         0.6    8.9    8.2    6.1        8.0     7.9    7.8      7.7
TOTAL 86V84                           148.7   148.8  183.5   168.6    1.8   162.0  187.1   12.0   147.6   149.2   149.2   10.1    8.    1.5
CPW OF APAM        OMT RELIEF:)         -       -      0.0    2.2    2.1       2.0    2.0    2.0       1.9    1.9      1.8     1.7    1.7    1.8
COT CF M AWD S
INIMO MN 89ICIATION                 41.9   48.8    48.2   47.8   49.8   48.8   80.2   80.6   52.0   82.8   6a.0   53.6    84.1   84.7
POlT M0 RAILAY                      28.7    8o.4   as.1   81.0   81.2    26.8    2.7   29.8     80.0   so0.         8o.7  a8.0    8.4    81.
PRIOCUCTIOM OOSEAC                  14.7   14.8   14.2   141    14.0   14.0    18.9   14.0   14.0   14.0    14.1    14.2   14.2   14u.
SuBTOAL                             66.    66.8    97.    98.2    94.7   91.1    92.9   94.0   98.0    98.8   97.8    48.6   99.6   100.8
SUMA                       O;-W--7i -9ii--i -97  -K --o-o-W;-g-i                                                   -  -"-i'F
DEREIATION MHDT                       -               -       -              -      5.      11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2   11.2    11.2
aEROtiATIONE DTA                    10.1    12.0   11.2    7.7    6.         6.9     4. 1   8.9     8.4     8.0     2.1    1.0    0.6    0.5
DEPRECIATION  ..868                          1.8   82.2   28.8   24.6   21.0   20.8   20.2    17.6    1.5    18.6    16.6    1.6I   16.1
O52RUXATSON RIUEAA                   0.4    0.4l     0.8     0.7     1 2    1.7    2 .      2.7    8.1      8.4     8.6    4.0    4.8    4.6
OEWRSCITION CAP. EXP.                0.02    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.         0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    9.0    0.0    0.
DERPECITIATM PRMCtIVM                00      0.0     2.8     4 9     s .      96      7     8.9    8.2      49 49     7     46       . 34   2. 
OEWRIAION Df1                        2.8    1.8    7.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
oWREesATIN                          21.8    Ii 82            .8 8a.9 41.6 8.0  i8.8 8.      Z.9   40.7   88.0    87.4    88.4       6.1I   88.8
0265 IN INVENTORY                   (1.8)    8.5   (6.8)    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
0aeAL OVEW                           9.2   10 2    10 5    10.6   10.8   10.6    10.8   10.6   10.8   10.5    10.6    10.6   10.5   10.8
on Otms COSTS                       a7      8 4      8 9     8.9      9     8.9      .9s       8.9  8.9     8.9     8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9
__. __ . _. ___ __ __ _ _ __ _ .__  __4                                _4               14
SUTOAL                             1i.8   18.6    1.4    1.4    14.4    14                          U. 44    144    1.4    14.4   14,4  .4   14.4
TOTAL PslsUCT C                         122.8   12.6   189.6   149.4   147.7   142.0   144.2  152.8   111.1   14.2   149.6   149.6   149.3  140.6
OPutnO DSC04                            23.4   22.8   28.8   88.2   84.0   20.0    10.9   (0.8)   (S-.)    0.0   (0.4)   (0.6)    1.8    2.0
FOIL  aw OE    C.)
SNT       ELrCTO                    MS.6    18.4   16.0   10.7    8.7       6.6    4.8      2.7    1.6      1.2     1.0     0.8    0.4      0.8
INTET:  SUtA LTD                    0.4     0.7    0.8      0.1    0.0      0.00                    0.0    0.0      00      0 .0    0.0    0.0
SINTV E    HAT LTD                   0.0    0.      0.2    0.2    2.1       4.1    8.6  86.8        s8 8     .7     8.4     8.0     4.4    8.8
DETEST: PIOJCTVIY LTD                0.0    0.0    0.8    0.7    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.9            0.9     0.8    0.8    0.7    0.7
DETET: R11CM1MM  IAMB                1.9    1.9    1.9    2,6    2.8        2.1     1.9    1.6      1.4    1.6      1.2    1.1    0.6    0.6
INTEST: RS1WS.RCIDQ LOANS            1.8    0.0     0.0    0.2    0.8    0.8        1.1     1.4    1.8      1.6     1.4    1.4    1.8    1.1
SNTU8T ON OVRAFT                     1.6    1.9    1.8    1.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
MIS. FP39055 CHARM                   0.      0.      0.     0.      0.      0.      0.      0.      0.      08      08      08      06      08
OfR FIMACIAL OR:                     6:    .o:      0.:0    0       0o:.o  o0: :o   0o:o  o0.0               .      0.0    0.0   o0.        o o
STOTAL                              28.i   20.6   20.8    1S        18.4   18.i 2    .8    18.i    12      11.8    10.i    9.6      6.4     7.8
DEOw  IRE TA                           (.0)    2.0    8.8    19.9    1.7    4.8   (4.0)  (18.8)  (15.8)  (11.8)  (11. )  (10. 1)   C.1)   (6.4)
TAXES ON SAE / ODEONCS                 6.8    6.8    0.0    0.0    0.0         O.o    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
--i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .  -  . 7 __Z; ..Wi TFi .                        --i -(ii
NET 30M8 (LOSS)                       (11.8)   (4.)     .     19.9   18.7    4.6   (4.0)  (18.8)  (15.8)  (11.8)  (11.1)  (10.1)   ()    (6.4)



B5E CASE
06/29/90               tUITANR   SNN FDWICIL PROJETIONS
SOURC  AND APPLICATIffiS OF RAW6   i ;ll; im     US 0.1I arm)
SOURCES OF RJS                          l97    18    199    1990    1991    192    1998    1994    199          199    1997    1993    1999    200o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -_,--                                        - - -  - -- _-    - - -         __ _    _ _  
ROPSTDQ IDNCE AR  TAX               6..    18.6    2s.6   86.2   84.0   20.0   10.9   (0.3)   ( .)    0            (0.4)   (0.6)    1.8      .0
OEPREIATION                         21.8    16.2   S3.9   41.6   86.6   86.8  38.9    a.e9   40.7   88.o0    3.4   86.4   8S.1  S.8
nO3n  NTUERNAL CASII OuRATION       86.4    81.0    77.8   78.0    72.6   86.8             48i.;    87.4   86.0   87.0    S8.9   86.4    WS.,
iS PRI Ftt  HCDE                        81.8   21.1   89.9   26.1   61.6   48.8   89.2   14.2    0.0             0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
tHCAT      L8a                       0.0     1.3    2.0      -     84.6   83.7   28.6    8.6                 -          -        -       -
a8E         OANS                    20 2    18.5    8.6    1.S
EDIA        La"NS                   10.0     -       -       -
RUoCmxTIVm  inO                              2.9   21.7   19.0   16.4
R JffnCD   LOa                        -      -       -      7.6    10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6         -       -       -       -       -       -
013   O63lX                           -      -      12.6t    -       -       -       -       -       -       -       _       -       -       _
OTHE1t      LO                       1.6    8.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
O0M 8@CES OP R.NS                        8.4    2.4    16.0   68.2   92.2   11.7    1.0    0.2           0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
Eium  AWD CAPITAL COJRT.Og          0.0    0.0    7.6    68.2   22.2    11.7     1.0    0.2         0.0      .0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.O
IHf  6S93                            8.4    2.4    8.2    0.0       0.0 0o0         0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
TOTAL 803 OF RM          0          78.6  S4.S   188.7   189.8   166.4   114.8   90.0  6.0   87.4  S8.0   87.0   8s.9   36.4  ss.8
T"iS~- - OF AN-                                                                                     -         - -fi 
APALICTISS OP P.13
OROD4ARY    DIYSTmSES                1.9    2.0    4.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    7.0           7.0    7.0    8.0    8.O        8.0     3.0
IMAT       itvEiSl                   0.0     1. 5   8.     2.3   40.0   47.8   40.0         .0          -       - 
0.8.8      WB10T                      .2     4.7    4,2      -       -               -       -       -       --                              -
kEIA         T                      10.0    280      -       -               -       --                              -
PROOLJcYivXTy P4WE1r47               -      2.9    21.7   19.0   16.4        -       -               -       -       -       -       -       -
VNESYMWS~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                   ~__ AP___T  _ _  __ ___ ____                         ___ _____ __ _ __ __ __
P4Y88f10178 APPLCATIONS            20.I   16.1   88.4   81.6    6.4    S7.S   80.0    12.0    7.c          7.0    s.o    8.o       8.o    3.0
CONTRWJTUt4 TO TIUST RN9            (9.8)    8.8    0.8     6.8   (0.6)   (0.7   (8.9)   te.7   (1.0)   (1.6)   (0.8)   C .8)   (1.0)   (0.?
VC(OM) IN WCIW CAPITAL              0.8   (12.0) SS.2   42.8    16.0       (8.4) _    (2.1   (2.1)   (1.8,    0.7    (c.0o) (0.0)    0.7   (0.O)
ePO"TD4O APPLXATW                   (9.0)   (8.7)   83.s   49.i    17.3   (4.1)   (6.0)   (8.8)   (2.6)   (1.1)   (0.8)   CI.3)   (0.)   (0.?
PRDCWAL OET REPAWSTS:
- HAT LTO                           0. 0    0       0.0              .0     0 0             0.0     0.0    8.9      7.4    12  20.6   10.6
* a.El  LTO                         27.8    2s.8   82.6   29.6   29.8   80.4    8v    2S.0   12.7    11.2     7.8           7.'    8.4    8.2
- K8I0A LID                          1.8    1.2    8.4    1.0       0.4    0.0       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
- ANCIPAQ OLD REA r                  -       -       -     29.2    16.0
-RE043EVAE LTD                      0.0O    0.8    0.8    21.2    2.8    2.8    8.6    38.          2.8    1.1    1.7    2.0    2.0        2.0
- RmtcrIvIy LIrD                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.9    0.9           2.3     2.6    2.6    8.1    8.16    4.2
- DAY LID                            1.4    0.7     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
- RST3ICMI*Ph  LOANS                8.4     Q.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         1.0    2.0    8.0       4.0     6.0
TOTAL FINANCIAL 4AAS                2B.4   20.6   20.8   18.8   _1.4   18.2   18.0    18.2    12.1    11.8   10.7    9.6    0.4    7.8
TOTAL OEW SIYICS                    62.0    1i.2   86.6   77.2   62.6   46.6   S0.8   42.7   29.6   81.0   82.1   8WS    84.2   82.8
TOTAL APPL1ArINS                        78.1   60.    12o.c  158.0  148.4   102.0   94.3   48.9   88.8   86.9    8.9   89.8   ad. r    86.6
CAS" stwu6 (OUICI)                       0.8   (6.2)    6.2   11.8   10.0    12.5   (4.8)   12.1    8.8          1.1    0.1   (8.8)   (2.4)   (1.8
ClfAT"TE CASH SMPLU  ( CIT)        (12.8)  (18.6)  (10.8)    1.0    11.0    2S.3   19 2    81.8 S   4.8   ac.9 e    6.0   82.6   80.2    20.9



BASE CASE
05/2/90                MAtMrmANIA: SINM FINANCIAL P9WBT
19?7   1988   199    1990    1991    192    199    1994   1995    198    19?    1996   199    200
~~~~~~~~~- - -                  - - --    - - --     - - -    - -- _-    - - --    - - --     - - - -
ASSETS
OPWTlO CASH                         4.4    2.S    1.4    1.8    6.4   11.1   11.8   11.8   11.7   11.e   11.9   12.1   12.2   U2.3
RfEIA8LU                           20.9   19.4   19.0   21.1   20.?   18.7   10.2   17.7   17.2   17.4   17.4   17.4   17.6   17.6
DENTORIUS                          60.1   tS.0   52.5   86.6   67.4   50.9   49.8   47.7   48.3   48.9   48.9   48.9   47.4   47.4
SUBMTAL                            75.4   75.8   78.4   81..   84.5   80.8   78.8   78.9   75.S    7.1   76.2    7.8    7.1    77.5
TJST KMW                           15.8   18.8   19.2   28.6 2B.1   24.4   20.8    18.8   12.8   11.0   10.8    9.s    8.4    7.7
CABH AN SaONS                       0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0   11.0    MS.   19 2    81.8   84.8   85.9   86.0   s2.6   80.2   op.9
FMX6 ASSETS
DEPWRECtAMLE ASSErS               77M7,   798.7  827.1  688.6   4 o.0   982   1,082.5 1,044.5 1,01. 51,088.  1,06 8   1,0s6.  1,07.5S 1,078 S
ACLAATLD 0EPRMIATIG4872    6.    406.4  448.2  44o.8  826.8'  82.:2'  606.0  646.   68.                            721   786.   798.6  827.0
NRT DEPRfLI ASSETS                440.4  441.8  420.7  410.4  488.2  459.2  470.8  488.4  404.8  878.7  841.4  s09.9  279.8  251.S
FDIACIAL ASSETS                    14.6   10.6    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4
DIP. IN B O    C                       18.4    9.5    9.       9.5      .5    95.S   96.5   95.5   98.5    95.5   95.5   95.5   ss.5   95.5
TOTAL  ASSES                         659.2   641.4   611.1  618.0   S68.7    685.6   686.6  65s.2   625.6   594.6   862.2   526.2  493.4   483.2
LIASILITIR
CLOW  UAILITITS
PAYA6A                             so 1    87 1    40.8   n1.S    11.9   ll.S   11.7   11.9   12.1   12.2   12.3   12.S   12.6   12.7
TAXS PAYABL                        19.5   a2.8   198        5.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7
C4ATFR   POrTIoN LTD               82.5   s.2   60.9   47.2    Ms    8s.4   29.5   17.6   19.7   21.s   26.0   25.9   25.0   28.0
0VERAFr                            12.8   18.5   10.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
SUBTOAL                              132.5   14.1   1a.6   74.5   48.0    4.6    41.9   50.1   82.5   84.4   89.1   89.0   as.a   86.4
t.T0 oUTnSANIMoD                     880.6  297.5  276.5  257.4  2M5.7  296.8  806.8  808.0  288.8  261.8  285.8  209.9   1S5.0  162.0
EQWIT
PAID-IN CAPAL AD CAPITAL CONR.    189.5  169.5  177.8  240.5  262.7  274.4  275.4  275.e  275.6  278.8  275.6  275.6  275.6  275.8
RETAI# EAMNBS                      10.7    s.8    9.8   29.2   47.9   52.7   48.6   85.1   19.8    8.5   (2.6)  (12.   (19.8)  (25.2)
PROVISINS M EO ERVES               15.9   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4    14..   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4
SUBOAL                               196.1  189.7   201.0  264.1  825.0  841.5   888.4   825.1  809.s  29s.5  287.4  277.8  27.2   264.8
TOTAL LISABTLIIES AO i7TY            69.2  641.4  611.1   618.0  658.7  685.6  5s6.6  658.2  625.6  594.6  562.2  526.2  498.4  468.2



- 100 -
Notes to the Financial Projections of SNID4
1.        Figures may not add up due to rounding.
2.        The projections have been made ir constant (December 31, 1989)
US dollars. Iron prices in real terms follow the IBRD Commodity Price
forecast dated December 1989.
3.        Production cost (cost of goods sold), nave been based on actual
1982 fixed and variable mining, beneficiation, transport and handling cost
and were adjusted for further productivity improvements envisaged.
4.        The Japanese debt relief and rescheduling, which translates
itself in an annual refund of future debt service obligations until the
year 2005, has been treated as other revenue.
5.        The French debt relief amounting to an estimated US$29.2 million
equivalent in 1990 has been treated ae a capital contribution in the same
year.
6.        The restructuring loan of US$50 million has been assumed at a 32
interest rate, with a maturity of 15 years including a 5 year grace period.
7.        The proposed IDA reflows are shown as annual capital contribu-
tions from 1990 to 1995 for a total amount of US$10.1 million.
8.        The average cost of loans for the M'haoudat project has been
assumed at 5.52 with a maturity of 15 years including a 5 year grace
period.



IBRD 22?61
1Gf                                             
MAURITANIA
P1JBUC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
-   Pm.dRcad    w             # PW'                                           C,         x\K
Pand RPO& 8nMldar /                                                     C
0 II_
_   T 1racbo    a  {ADnf-Mir.
--XInwbttrf  Anfl tr ouhdie
s*4mer  j*%.s   A LG  ER I A
ltaf
AGRICULTU/AAL ZOES"
Sdwmtb                                            X      ,,,,_
A V
KILOMETERS                                       j                                                           241.
.  * -  >   -              j MMAL I
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ot-'   ''                  j'.    :"':.'.,,  ,'"'.:.'':,'.                    , -,
NOUAK0H OT
4ie0genfra                             J                 el Atrouss    /
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b Mb,-4tgt                     Sw*stf  IM__ > 
M     A      L    I
t   S   E   N   E G   A   L                                                                     199_
MARCH 199M



