                                Document.of
                           THE WORLD BANK



                                                 Report No. 29071




          PROJECT PERF'ORMANCE RE-ASSESSMENT REPORT




                   ISLAMICREPUBLIC OFMAURITANIA


    PUBLICENTERPRISESECTORADJUSTMENTPROGRAM (1990-94)
                             (Credit 2166-MAW




                                May 27,2004




CountryEvaluationand RegionalRelations
OperationsEvaluation Department

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       CurrencyUnit =Ouguiya
                US$ 1.00 =UM 261.9 (July-September2003)

                  ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
AGSECAL  AgriculturalSectorAdjustment& InvestmentProject
CPP      Comptes ChhquesPostaux
CRSP     Cellulede RChabilitationdu SecteurParapublic
DTPE     Direction de la Tutelle des Entreprises Publiques
EPA      EtablissementPublic B Caractke Administratif
EPIC     EtablissementPublic 21 Caracthe Industriel et Commercial
FRSC     Fiscal Reform SupportCredit
GOM      Governmentof the IslamicRepublicof Mauritania
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFC      InternationalFinanceCorporation
MAED     Ministhe des Affaires Economiqueset du DCveloppement
MAURITEL MauritaniennedeTClCcommunications
MOF      Ministryof Finance
MOP      Ministryof Planning
OED      OperationsEvaluationDepartment
OPT      Office des Poste et des TClCcommunications
PANPA    Port Autonome de Nouakchott-dit Port de 1'AmitiC
PE       Public Enterprise
PESAP    Public Enterprise SectorAdjustmentProgram
PESIDTA  Public Enterprise SectorInstitutional Development and Technical Assistance Project
PETARP   Public EnterpriseTechnicalAssistance and RehabilitationProject
PPAR     Project Performance AssessmentReport
PPRR     Project PerformanceRe-assessmentReport
PRMC     Public Resource Management Credit
PRSP     PovertyReduction StrategyPaper
PSD      Private SectorDevelopment
PSDC     Private SectorAdjustment Credit
PSDCBC   Private SectorDevelopment Capacity Building Credit
SA       SociCtCAnonyme
SAL      StructuralAdjustment Loan
SDR      SpecialDrawing Rights
SEM      SociCtCd'EconomieMixte
SMCP     SociCtCMauritaniennepour la Commercialisationde Poisson
SME      Small and Medium Entreprises
SMI      Small and Medium Industries
SN       SociCtkNationale
SNDE     SociCt6Nationale de 1'Eau
SNIM     Socikt4NationaleIndustrielle et Minikre
SOMELEC  SociCtCMauritanienned'Electricit6
SOMIR    SociCtCMauritaniennedes IndustriesdeRaffinage
SONADER  So~iCt6Nationale deWveloppementRural
SONELEC  SociktCNationale d'Eau et d'Electricit6
SONTMEX  SociM Mauritanienned'Import Export
                                         -
TA       TechnicalAssistance
UGP     Unit6 de Gestiondu Programmede R6forme du SecteurParapublic

        OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceandindependenceinevaluation.


      About this Report
c
           The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two
      purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank`sself-evaluation processandto verify thatthe Bank'swork is
      producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
     the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, OED annuallyassessesabout25 percentof
     the Bank'slendingoperations. Inselectingoperations for assessment,preferenceis givento those that are
      innovative, large,or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
      ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments;and thosethat are likelyto generate
     important lessons.The projects,topics, andanalytrcalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
     studies.
           A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) is basedon a reviewof the ImplementationCompletion
      Report.(aself-evaluationby the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conductedby OED.To prepare
      PPARs,OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
     the borrowing countryfor onsitediscussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
     validate andaugment the informationprovidedinthe ICR, as welt as examine issues of specialinterest to broader
     OED studies.
           EachPPAR is'subjectto a peer review processand OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
     PPAR is reviewedby the responsibleBank departmentand amendedas necessary. The completedPPAR is then
     sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers'comments are attachedto the documentthat is sent to the Bank's
     Boardof Executive Directors.After anassessmentreport has beensent to the Board. it is disclosedto the public.


     About the OED RatingSystem
           Thetime-tested evaluation methods usedby OED are suitedto the broad rangeof the World Bank`swork.
     The methodsoffer both rigorand a necessary levelof flexibility to adaptto lendinginstrument, project design, or
     sectoralapproach. OED evaluatorsallapply the same basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Followingis
     the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion(more informationis availableon the OEDwebsite:
     http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
           Rekvanceof ObjecHves: The extentto whichthe project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
     current developmentprioritiesandwithcurrent Bankcountryand sectoralassistance strategies and corporate
     goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
     Operational Policies). fOSSib8 ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
           Efficacy:  Theextent to which the project`s objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
     accounttheir relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial. Modest,Negligible.
           EfWiency: The extent to whichthe project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a returnhigherthan the
     opportunity cost of capitaland benefhat least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
     Modest, Negligible.This rating is notgenerallyappliedto adjustmentoperations.
           Sustainability: The resilienceto riskof net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
     Unlikely, HighlyUnlikely, Not Evaluable.
           InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extentto which a project improvesthe abilityof a country or region
     to makemoreefficient, equitableandsustainable useof its human, financial, and naturalresourcesthrough: (a)
     betterdefinition, stability, transpahncy, enforceability. and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b)
     betteralignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandatd, whichderivesfrom these
     institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactincbdes both intendedand unintendedeffects of a
     project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, West, Negligible.
           Outcome: The extentto whichthe project`s majorrelevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
     achieved, efficiently. PmsjM8ratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory. Moderately
     Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
          8ankPerformance: TheextenttowhichservicesprovidedbytheBankensuredqualityat entryand
     supported implementationthroughappropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequatetransitionarrangements
     for regularoperationof the project). Possible ratings:HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
     Unsatisfactory.
          BorrowerPerformance: Theextentto whichthe borrowerassumedownership and responsibilityto ensure
     quality of preparationand implementation, and compiiedwith covenantsand agreements,towardsthe
     achievementof development objectivesand sustainability. Possible ratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory.
     Unsatisfactory, HighlyUnsatisfactory.


Contents

Ratings ...........................................................................................................................................  ...i
Preface .........................................................................................................................................    111

Summary    ......................................................................................................................................    v

1.  Introduction         ........................................................................................................................     1

2.  Background
       Countryand Economic Background .................................................................................                               3
       The Public Enterprise Sector ............................................................................................                      4

3.  The Public Enterprise SectorAdjustmentProgram (PESAP)
       Objectives and Design ......................................................................................................                   7
       The 1996PPAR ................................................................................................................                  8

4.  The Reform after the 1996PPAR                              ...................................................................................  11
       The PE Sectorin 2003 ....................................................................................................                    16

5.  Outcomeand Assessment
       Outcome ..........................................................................................................................           19
       Institutional Development Impact ..................................................................................                          20
       Sustainability ..................................................................................................................            20
      Bank Performance ..........................................................................................................                   20
       Borrower Performance ....................................................................................................                    21
       Comparisonof Ratings in 1996and 2003 ......................................................................                                  21

6.  Lessons
       Lessonsof Broad Applicability ......................................................................................                         23
       Lessonsof Re-assessment by OED ................................................................................                              23

Figures
    Figure 1.1: Sequencein Bank-financedAdjustment Operations ........................................                                                1
    Figure4.1: Net Contributionto the Budget for SelectedPEs (1990-2001) .....................                                                       18

Tables
    Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators. 1989-2002...............................................................                                      3
    Table 4.1: SelectedTechnical and FinancialIndicatorsfor Water and Electricity.
                      1990-2003 .......................................................................................................              15
    Table4.2:        Number of Public Enterprises. selected dates(1990-2003) ...........................                                             16

Annexes
    AnnexA:           Sizeof the Public Enterprise Sector. SelectedDates (1990-2003)...................25
    Annex B:          Financial Situationof Various Public Enterprise.............................................                                  27
    Annex C:         Public Enterprisesand Limited Companieswith StateParticipation (2003)...33
    Annex D:          Main PEs: Direct                             g Subsidiesand Taxeson Operating
                                                                   ................................................................................ 35
    Amex E:                                        ...............................................................................................  37
    Annex F:                                                       the Government ................................................... 43


                                      1



Ratings


Public Enterprise SectorAdjustment Program (Credit2166-MAU)

                                                       OED
                                         1996PPAR        2004PPRR
 Outcome                                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory
 InstitutionalDevelapment Impact         Moderate        Modest
 Sustainability                          Uncertain       Likely
 BankPerformance                         Satisfactory    Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                     Satisfactory    Satisfactory


                                               ...
                                               111



Preface

        This is the Project PerformanceReassessmentReport (PPRR) on the Public
Enterprise SectorAdjustment Program (PESAP)of the IslamicRepublic of Mauritania,
which was supportedby an InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA) credit in 1990.'
The credit aimed at helpingthe country restructure its public enterprise(PE) sector to
reduce its burden on public finance,improve its financial viability, and increase its
economic efficiency.

        The PESAP (Credit 2166-MAU), in the amount of SDR 30.7 million, was
approved on June 26, 1990,became effectiveon August 29,1990, and closed on
December 31, 1994,two years behind schedule. The final disbursementwas on July 18,
 1994. The originalcredit amountwas increasedby a total of SDR 7.4million through              1

four amendments, signed on November20,1990; November 18,1992; January 25,
 1993;and April 26,1994. Cofinancingwas provided by the African Development Bank,
the Arab Fund for Economicand SocialDevelopment,Germany, and Japan.

        The PESAP was preceded by the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and
RehabilitationProject (PETARP) Credit 1567-MAU,approved in FY85,whose objective
was to assist the Government to develop a medium-termrehabilitationstrategy for the PE
sector. The PESAP itself was accompanied by the Public EnterpriseSector Institutional
Development and TechnicalAssistance Project (PESIDTA)Credit 2167-MAU, approved
the same day, whose objectivewas to help implementthe reforms sqported by the
PESAP. Thethree projects were the subjectof an OperationsEvaluationDepartment
(OED) assessmentconductedin 1996.

        The present reassessment covers only the PESAP. It aims at testing the durability
and the impact of the reforms over a longerperiod of time and atjudging to what extent
the intervalbetween 1996 and 2003 has had an impact on the evaluation findings.

       This PPRR is based on all relevant Bank and Fund documents and on interviews
with Bank and Fund staff. A mission visited Mauritania in October 2003, to discuss
performance with officials who implemented the project, managers of the main public
enterprises targeted by the program, and members of the Bank resident mission.

       The draftPPRR was sent to the Government for comments. These are attached as
annex F.'

       This report was prepared by Pierre de Raet (Consultant),with Poonam Gupta as
Task Manager. Janice Joshi and Agnes Santos provided administrativesupport.


' OED has
* The    undertakenfour suchreassessments in FY04.
     Government'scommentsdidnot require any correctionor change in the text or in the ratings.


                                                V



Summary

1.       Thepresent reassessment is part of a set of four undertaken by OED in FY04to
test the durabilityand the impact of someeconomicreforms in four countries(the others
being Laos, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh) over a longer period of time and tojudge to what
extent the interval between the PPAR and the present time has had an impact on the
evaluationfindings.

2.      In Mauritania, the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP) was
one of the operationsfinancedby the Bank in support of the adjustmentprogram initiated
in the mid-1980s. The broad objectivesof the overallprogram were to redress macro-
economic imbalances,reduce the role of the Statein the economy, and promote private
sector development (PSD). Later in the 1990s,the Government increasingly stressed
policies directed at reducingpoverty.

3.      In the early 1980s,the Governmentcame to recognize that thepublic enterprise
(PE) sectorwas performing very poorly and launched a broad rehabilitation program with
the supportofthe Bank. Emergencyrehabilitationof somemajor PEs was successfulin
many respectsbut did not addressthe systemic issues underlyingthe poor performanceof
the sector, especially its financial performance. By the late 1980s,it became clear that
deeper reformswere necessary; the PESAP was the vehicle to undertake such a task. Its
objectiveswere: (i) to amend the legal and institutional fiamework for the sectorto
facilitate privatization, provide more autonomy, and improve financial control; (ii) to
redress the financial structureof key enterprises,includingthe large iron ore mining
company and thenational airline; and (iii)to rationalizethe sectorthrough the divestiture
of unprofitable PEs, the elimination of a number of statemonopolies,the settlementof
govement arrears to PEs, more realisticbudgeting for governmentconsumption, and
staffreductions.

4.      OED did an assessmentof PESAP in 1996.The purpose of reassessingthe PESAP
isto test the durabilityof itsresults, that is, whether the findingsof an evaluationchangeif
the operationis evaluatedafter a longerinterval, in this casein 2003 rather than in 1996.
The reassessment focuseson the initial evaluation findings,factsthat have emerged since
the evaluation,and the current assessment in 2003. The exerciseis important forthe
reliabilityand credibilityof OED's evaluationsand couldhelp determine
which OEDshould undertake assessmentof certain operations, especiallyadjustment
programs.

5.      The outcome of the PESAPis              satisfactory as in the 1996PPAFL
Mauritania has come a longway in re
in the late 1980sw
objectivesof the p
long-termperspective. EaGh
framework was modified and strengthe
of PEs, and, all alongthe 199
major enterpriseswere succe

                                               Vi



company.However, there remain seriouschallengesahead, notablythe privatizationof
the electricitycompany and a politically acceptableprivate participation formula in the
urban water supply sector. Finally, the sectorwas considerablycleared of "dead wood"
and rationalized. In 1990,the sectorwas a large amorphousmass of ill-definedand
poorly performing companies,it is now much leaner and wellorganized into clearly
defined categoriesof enterpriseswith the nature of their activities largely corresponding
to their legal status.

6.       Although the institutional developmentimpact of Bank assistanceas a whole in
the PE sectorhas been substantial,the impact of the PESAP on institutionaldevelopment
has been modest,comparedto moderatein the 1996PPAR. The capacity of the Ministry
of Finance to monitor the financialperformance of the sectorhas graduallydeclined over
the years, due to apparent reduced interest, loss in momentum, and insufficientvisibility,
with the result that itdoes not have now the quality staffneeded to managethe portfolio
of the Stateas a true shareholder. Similarly,at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Development, the staffhas been cut and its influencereduced consequent to a shift since
1998in favor of a predominantlysectoralapproach in managingthe reform process.

7.       The sustainabilityis rated likely, compared to uncertainin the PPAR. Sincethe
latter was prepared in 1996,it has become much clearerthat the results achieved under
the PESAP have proved sustainablein the long-run:(i)the iron ore company(SNIM)has
achieved a good operationaland financialperformance, althoughits production and
exportshave leveled off formany years; favorableworld market conditionsare now
appropriatefor furtheractionby GOM in seekinga strategicpartner for SNIM; and
(ii) the sectorhas become much leaner and more transparent with the Statehardly
involved in productive activities. Not onlyhas there been no reversal in policies, but the
policies pursued under the PESAP were deepened and extended after 1998,with major
progress in the utility and air transport sectors. However, somerisks remain to the
successful completionof the privatizatiodprivateparticipation of some PEs, as noted
above.

8.       Bank and borrowerperformancesare rated satisfactory,as in the PPAR.

9.      The followinglessons of general applicabilityemerge from this re-assessment:

    a   The reform of the parapublic sector, even in a small country, is a very long
                              decades ratherthan in years. Its outcome in economic terms
                             take many years to materialize. Issues are numerousand
                              gal, social, financial,etc.Bank country assistance strategies
        and projects shouldplan       reforms over a long period of time.

    a   Proper sequencingin PE reforms is critical. The first stepshouldbe streamlining
                                                          ework. The input of the Legal

                                      vii


0To move from a phase of rehabilitatiodrestructuringto a phase of privatization or
 public-privatepartnership is a big step and may represent for some governmentsa
 difficult and delicate decision. Continuous Bank support is essential.

 A broad PE reform managed and monitored at the central level should be
 complementedby sectorreform supportedby TA projects, especiallyin the case
 of public utilities. In the case of Mauritania,the outcome of the program would
 have been different if it had not been for the TA projects of the late 1990s.

0In PE reforms, performanceagreementsmay be valuable tools in the
 rehabilitationand restructuringphase, but their purpose is limited and their
 successhighly dependent on the commitmentand independenceof each side.
 They are useful for inculcatingoperational and financial disciplinebut not for
  attractinginvestment.

 The setting up of a monitoring and evaluation(M&E) system is essentialto
 monitor PEs' operationaland financialperformance in a consistentmanner and
 over a length of time. It also requires a staff capable of analyzingdata. Bank
 projects shouldpay particular attention to this at preparatiodappraisal.




                                              Gregory K. Ingram
                                               Director-General
                                            Operations Evaluation


                                                          1


1.       Introduction

1.1      The Public Enterprise SectorAdjustmentProgram (PESAP)was one of the
operationsfinancedby the Bank in support of the adjustment program initiatedby
Mauritania in the mid-1980s. Thebroad objectivesof the overallprogram were to
redressmacro-economic imbalances,reduce the role of the State in the economy, and
promoteprivate sectordevelopment (PSD). Later in the 1990s,the Government
increasinglystressedpolicies directed at reducing poverty.

1.2      The adjustmentprogram has been supported by nine operationsfinanced by the
Bank. They focusedon four areas: macro-economicstabilizationandpublic sector
management; reform of the PE sector;promotion of theprivate sector;and reform of the
agriculturalsector. In someof these, the Bank financedtechnicalassistance(TA)to
assist in implementingthe reforms (figure 1.1).

Figure 1.1: Sequencein Bank-financed Adjustment Operations




PESIDTA (TA)             7.7
PSDC sv                 19.3



a/ Accompanied by a credit of SDR 21.4million under the SpecialFacilityfor Afnca.
b/ SDR 14.0million were for adjustment and SDR 5.4 million for investment.
c/ Supplemented by four credits for a total of SDR 7.4 million.
d/ Supplemented by a credit of SDR 0.5 million under the FY96 IDA Reflow Facility.
e/ Supplemented by four credits for atotal of SDR 0.9 million under the IDA Fifth Dimension Program.
f/ Supplementedby a credit of SDR 14.1million.
                                    I
1.3      The three operationsdirectlyrelated to the reform of thepublic enterprise(PE)
sector, the Public EnterpriseTechnical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (PETARP)
(Credit 1567-MAU)of 1985,the PESAP (Credit 2166-MAU), and
Sector InstitutionalDevelopment and Technical AssistanceProject
2167-MAU), both of 1990,were major componentsof the adjus
onlyaddressed the issue of reducingthe sizeof thepublic sector,but alsowere meant to
contributeto the conditionsrequiredto develop a stillnascent privatesector. A major
rehabilitationproject for the largeiron ore                                       SoGiCttNationale
Industrielleet Minikre (SNIM),approved in                                         a criticalrole in the


1.4      OEDdid anassessmentofP
isto test the durabilityof itsresults,
the operationis evaluatedaftera longer
Thereassessmentfocuseson theinitial

 The SNIMRehabilitation Project [Ln. 2643-MAU)wasreviewed by OED in

                                             2


the evaluation, and the current assessmentin 2003. The exerciseis important for the
reliabilityand credibility of OED's evaluationsand could help determinethe best time at
which OED should undertake assessmentof certainoperations,especiallyadjustment
programs.

                                            3


2.      Background

Countryand EconomicBackground

2.1     Mauritaniais a low-incomeAfrican country on the western edgeof the Sahara
desert. Itspopulation of 2.6million, growingat 2.4 percent per year, is thinlydispersed
acrossa land areaof over 1 million squarekilometers, 90percent of which is desert. The
countryhas limited agrarianresourcesbut containsextensivemineral deposits,most
notablyiron ore. Its per-capita gross national incomewas estimated at US$410in 2002.

2.2     Economic growth was strongin the 1960s,but faltered in the 1970sand the early
1980s, with recurringdroughtsand falling mineral prices, exacerbatedby inadequate
economicpolicies. Duringthis period, the countryborrowed heavilyto finance
large-scaleindustrialexpansion,accumulatinga rapidly growingforeign debt. Growth
resumed in the mid-l980s, owingin part to good rains and the adoption of an adjustment
program supportedby the Bank and the IMF.A border conflictwith Senegal and the
Persian Gulf Crisis caused the recoveryto end abruptly in 1989. Entering the 1990s,
Mauritania's economicperformance was erratic,foreigndebt was high and rising, and
social gainswere few.

2.3     In 1992,the Governmentresumed its reformswith good resultsthroughout the
decade. Growthwas robust and steady, averaging 5.1 percent between 1993and 1996
and 4.1 percent during 1997-02. Inflation was containedto singledigits and both the
overallfiscal deficit (excludinggrants) and the currentaccountdeficit(excludingofficial
transfers)narrowed substantially(table2.1). Inaddition to macro-economicstabilization,
substantial liberalizationof the economywas achieved:price controlson basic
commoditieswere removed, the involvementof the Statein productive activities
considerablyreduced, andreforms in both theproductive and social sectors undertaken.

Table2.1: Key EconomicIndicators 1989-2002
(inpercentage of GDP, unlessotherwiseindicated)
                                                  1989-92       1993-96        1997-02
                                                      1.8           5.1            4.1
                                                      8.8           6.2            4.7
                                                     19.2          18.6           26.4
Totalrevenueexcludinggrants                          22.3          25.3           27.4
Taxrevenue                                           17.2          17.9           15.0
Primarybudgetbalance                                -4.6            0.4            4.0
Overallbudget balance (excl.grantskomit.basis)      -7.5          -3.0             0.8
Currentaccountdeficit(excl.off.transf.+oil)        -17.2         -14.8           -5.1
Debt service(afterrelief)/XGS                        33.7          25.8 .         21.7
Source: MF.
                                                1990sled to a declinein the incidenceof
                                                           era1social indic
                                                         ent (for girls 82.2

                                                 4


expectancyat birth at 55 years, and under-5 mortality rate at 116per 1,000. HIV/AIDS
prevalence is low at 0.52 per~ent.~

The Public Enterprise Sector

2.5    In the early 1980s,the PE sectorperformed poorly. The causes of the poor
performance of the sectorwere, in additionto rapid changesin the externalenvironment,
poor investmentchoices,weak management,lack of financialdiscipline, and
inappropriate and ill-definedrelations between the Government and PEs. Following a
somberreport on the sector issued in 1983by an interministerialcommittee, the
Government decided to addressthe problems faced by the sector. It created a unit, the
Cellule deRbhabilitation du SecteurParapublic (CRSP),within the Ministryof Planning
(MOP- now the Ministry of EconomicAffairs and Development -MAED),to lead and
overseethe PE reform, while the Direction de la TutelledesEntreprisesPubliques
(DTPE)was created within the Ministryof Finance (MOF)to collect and analyzethe
financial resultsof the PEs. In February 1984,legislationwas issued: clarifying the legal
statusof PEs into three categories,EtablissementsPublics a CaractereAdministratif
(EPA),Etablissements Publics Caract&reIndustriel et C                      (EPIC), and Socibtbs
d'EconomieMixte (SEM)5;organizingtheir oversight;an                         them to enter into
performance contractswith the Government. SNIM and the CentralBank of Mauritania
were specificallyexcluded from this regime.

2.6    Togetherwith the Bank, the Governmentofthe Islamic RepublicofMauritania
(GOM) developeda two-wayapproach to restructure the sector and improveits                     .
performance. A firstphasewould meet the emergencyneeds of SNIM and of key public
servicecompanies,while a longer-term strategyfor the sectorwould be formulated. The
secondphase would support essential institutionalandpolicy reforms and would expand
the rehabilitation program to other PEs. Under the first phase, coveringthe secondhalf
of the 1980s,emergencyrehabilitation was supportedby three Bankprojects: the
PETARP (1985),the SNIM RehabilitationProject (1986),6and S A L I (1987). The
technical and operationalproblems of SNIM,the large iron ore mining company, were
successfullyaddressedwhile emergencyprograms for thewater and electricitycompany
(SONELEC),the post and telecom agency(OPT), and thePort ofNouakchottwere
implementedunder the PETARP. A rationalizationplan for the sectorwas alsoprepared
but onlypartiallyimplemented.

2.7    However,the emergencyrehabilitation of major PEs did not addressthe systemic
issuesunderlying the poor performance of the PE sector. By 1988,the financial
performance of the sectorhad becomecritical. About 60percent of PEs were incurring

                  compare favorably withthose forMali andBurkinaFaso, but are less favorablethan




 The rehabilitationof SNIM hadalready startedin 1984.

                                              5


losses,the financial situationof SNIM,the largest enterprisein the country, was
precarious, a largenumber of PEs had their equitycapital totallyeroded, and a number of
them were resorting to short-termloans from local banks to covertheir expenses,
aggravatingtheir situation as well as that of thebanks. The externaldebt of the sector
amountedto one-third of the public and publicly guaranteedexternaldebt, with SNIM
accounting for two-thirds of the sector'sdebt. The sectorwas paralyzed by crossdebts
between PEs, Government,banks, and suppliers.


                                               7


3.      The Public Enterprise SectorAdjustment Program
        (PESAP)

ObjectivesandDesign

3.1     The objectiveofthe PESAPwas to deepen and extendthe reform undertaken in
the second half of the 1980s. It aimed at extendingthe reforms through:


    0   more fundamental modificationof the legal and institutional framework for the
        sectorto facilitateprivatization,provide more autonomy, and improve financial
        control;
    0   financial restructuringof key enterprises, includingSNIM and Air Mauritanie;
        and
    0   rationalizationof the sectorthrough the divestitureof unprofitablePEs, the
        elimination of a number of statemonopolies, the settlementof government arrears
        to PEs,more realistic budgeting for governmentconsumption,and staff
        reductions.

3.2     The designof theproject was based on a seriesof actions implementedprior to
Board presentationincluding, the revision of the 1984legi~lation,~the liquidationof
several companies, and the adoptionof actionplans for severalPEs. It was a
three-tranche operation,the firsttrancheto be released upon effectiveness and the other
twoupon meeting specifiedconditions. Release of the second tranchewas subject,inter
ulia, to divestitureof one-half of non-profitablePEs, meeting efficiencyand production
targets by SNIM, implementationof an actionplan for severalPEs, signingof
performancecontractswith Air Mauritanieand the Port ofNouakchott,reduction of 50
percent of GOM arrearsto PEs, adequateb             allocations for c   umption ofpublic
services,and removal of the monopoly on rice imports. Release of the third tranchewas
subject, inter a h ,to divestitureof the remainderof non-profitablePEs, achievement of
esciencyproduction and restructuring             by SNIM, eliminationof remainingGOM
arrears,adequatebudget provisions for           servicesand surveillanceof fishing
grounds, removal of monopolyon tea and sugar imports,and signingof a performance
contractwiththepost and telecommunications agency.

3.3     Sincethe program was considered aspossiblytoo demanding for the Mauritanian
administration, a TA project, the PESIDTA, accomp                PESAPtohelp implement
the reform. In addition,the PESIDTAhad someo                     ves, notably strengthening
the units in MOP and MOFresponsiblefor managingthe reformprogram and monitoring
the performance of PEs.




                                                         . Inthemonthsfollowingthei
                                                         in October 1990,these were reclassified
                                                         rmexcludedtheEPAs andthehanks
(whoserestructuringhad been undertakenunderthe SAL).

                                              8


The 1996PPAR

3.4      The 1996PPAR covered the PETAFW, the PESAP, and the PESIDTA, even
though the latter was still ongoingand closed two years later, on June 30, 1998,the
original date. The 1996PPAR summarizedthe results of the reform program as follows.

3.5      The legal and institutionalframework was considerablystrengthenedby the
adoptionof Ordinance 90-09 of April 1990whose objectivewas to facilitate
privatization,providemore autonomyto PEs, and improvetheir financialcontrol. The
new legislation reorganized the sector along four categories,by creatinga new type of
enterprise, the "Soci6t6Nationale" (SN), with more autonomyand expected to evolve to
the statusof SEM. Ordinance90-09 still governs PEs today.

3.6      SNIMwas successfullyrestructured and its organizationand management
strengthened. The rehabilitation of the other major PEs, includingthe public utilities,
was pursued, with most performance agreements, particularly thosewith SONELEC,
consideredvery successful. One failure among the key enterprises,however,was the
inabilityof Air Mauritanieto redressits problemsdueto lack of commitment on the part
of management and GOM alike.

3.7      Many PEs were closed or privatized, and those that remained were, for the most
part, in much improved financialcondition. Employment in the sector fell substantially,
and, apparently,with little hardship for the laid-offworkers. The quality of serviceswas
improved, and explicitsubsidiesto PEs were largely eliminated. Themonopoliesover
rice, sugar, and tea importswere abolished, with lower prices as a result.

3.8      The PPAR concluded that, althoughtherewere somedelaysin implementation,
GOM's continuedcommitmentto the program assured its eventualsuccess. Also, the
attitudeof the Governmenttoward its role in the economyand in the management of PEs
changed significantlybetween 1985and 1994. It cameto acknowledgethat productive
and commercialactivitieswere better left to theprivate sector and that even the
"strategic" enterprises,which it was unwillingto privatize,werebetter off with complete
autonomyin the management of theirday-to-dayaffairs.

Based on its findings,the PPAR rated the threeprojectsas follows:*
                                           PETARP               PESAP         PESIDTA
Outcome                             Marginally satisfactory  Satisfactory   Satisfactory
Institutional DevelopmentImpact     Negligible               Moderate       Moderate
Sustainability                      Uncertain                Uncertain      Uncertain
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory             Satisfactory    Satisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory    Satisfactory

3.9      Therating of "uncertain" far sustainability,the key elementinjudging the
long-term impact of the reform program when re-assessingthe PESAP, was based on the
followingarguments:(i) notwith                   ccess achievedin redressingsomePEs
thanksto performanceagreement                   in other countries suggestedthat the Iatter
"...areoftennot sufficientto prev               ng and a decine in government


 Idem,para. 18.

                                           9


commitment;"(ii) the fact that general managersof PEs were appointed by the President
instead of by their Board of Directorsmade them susceptibleto government pressure and
therefore the sustainabilityof sound management at risk; and (iii)progress in financial
disciplineremained fragile(delaysand considerable difficulties;clearancecum
reemergenceof arrears and interlocking debts; slow adoptionofanalyticalaccounting).'
The rating of "uncertain"sustainabilityreflected doubts about the institutional
developmentimpact of the projects.




9Idem, para. 9-11.


                                                    11


 4.         The Reform afterthe 1996PPAR

 4.1        After the closingof the PESAPin 1994,the dialoguebetween GOM and the Bank
 onthe PE sector continued through the PESIDTA and two operationsin support of PSD,
 approvedin 1995. Substantialprogress continued to be made in the PE sector.

 4.2        The implementation completionreport (ICR)of the PESIDTA,issued more than
,two years after the PPAR, in November 1998," listednumerous achievements.
 Legislationhad been reinforced and constituteda strongbase for soundmanagementof
 the sector;the units in MOP an'dMOFhad been strengthened;the sizeof the sectorhad
 been reduced fiom 36 at the start of the PESAPto 29 PEs by end-1997;'' operating
 subsidieshad been eliminated;PEs' privilegedaccessto credit had been discontinued;
 and performance agreementshad been mostly successfulin mobilizing resources and
 developinga mutuallybeneficial relationshipbetween GOM and the PEs.

 4.3        Twomajor shortcomingsremained. First, althoughthe financingand debt
 capacityof the largest enterprises(SNIM, SONELEC, and OPT)had improved, there was
 inadequatehding for the largeinvestmentsrequired in their sector. As aresult,
 expansionin operations and improvement in serviceshad been minimal. In this
 connection,the ICR noted: "Sectorpolicy and regulatoryreforms, and private sector
 participation in these utilities, whether through concessionor privatization, would have
 helped cementthe gains of [performance agreements]and addressthe investmentneeds
 of PEs. It wasonly late in the                 at the Governmentbecame sensitiveto these
                       Second,Air              ie's financial and technical situationdeteriorated
 throughoutthe period due to lack of management commitment,weak institutional
 capacity, and lack ofpoliticalwill. In 1997,the companywas bankrupt, its losses
 amountingto UM 1,403million,which prompted GOMto appoint in 1998 an interim
 administrat~r.'~Also, by mid-1998, it had become clear that, despitethe achievements,
 relatively littleprogresshad been made in terms of reducingthe sector's weight in the
 economy,because of the dominantposition of SNIM, SONELEC, and OPT, that
 accounted for 80percent of the sector eight.'^



 '*ReportNo.    18548-MAUofNovember 5, 1998.
 ' IThe totalincluded 2SNs, 10EPICs,7majoritystate-owned SEMsand 8 SAs in whichthe Stateheld
 directminorityparticipationand 2 entitiesin which the Statebad indirectparticipation. Thistotal included
 4 EPICS,2 majoritystate-ownedSEMs, and 1 SA with minoritystateparticipationcreatedbetween 1990
 and end-1997as a result of the corporatizationof state-nm assets and commercialservices. The creationof
 7 new entitiesexplainsin part the differencebetween the figureof 17reported by the 1996PPAR and the
 one reportedby the ICR of the PESIDTA. The figureof 29excludestwo majoritystate-ownedbanks
 (whichwerenot part ofthe PE sectorreform). See annexA for details.
 12 ICR of thePESIDTA, Executive Summary,para. 8.
 l 3 In its Evaluation Summary of the ICR, datedMarch 16,1999,OED confirmedthe findings and ratings
 of the ICR. It rated outcome,Bank perfomnee, and Borrowerperfomnce as satisfactory,as in the 1996
 PPAR, but rated sustainabilitylikelyagainst uncertain, and institutionaldevelopmentimpactsubstantial
 against moderate.
 l4 Accordingto GOM's Policy Declaration of August 1998,the sectorstillrepresentedabout 15percent of
 GDP, 9.5 percent of public investment, and 17percent of the total externalpublic debt.

                                                12


4.4     The Governmentacknowledgedthis situation,which led it to review itspolicy
and undertake a new phase in the reform process. It issued a new Policy Declaration in
August 199815,with the objectiveof furtherreducing and redirectingthe role of the State
by promoting the private sector and competitiveness. For the first time, the Government
explicitlyrecognized the greater role to be played by the private sector. The thrust of the
new policy is summarizedbelow.

    0   For the strategicand public service enterprises (EPICSand SNs),the policy was to
        move towardsprivatization or public-privatepartnership,wheneverpossible. The
        focus, however, was on attractingthe private sectorto OPT and SONELECto
        take equityin their capital and assumetheirmanagement to facilitateinvestment
        and improve accessto services,costs, and quality. In March 1998,GOM had
        alreadyissued a Policy Declaration for the post and telecom sector,in which it
        had announcedthe separationof the two activities, the creation of a new telecom
        companyand the openingof its capital to a strategicoperator, and the
        liberalizationof the sector. For SONELEC,the August 1998Declaration
        announcedthe separationof the water and electricitysectors,their liberalization,
        and the openingof the capital of a new electricitycompanyto a strategicoperator.
        In September 1998,a Policy Declaration for water and electricityconfirmedand
        detailedthat policy.


    0   For the majority state-ownedSEMs,the policywas alsoto move gradually
        towards reduced shareholding,privatization, public-privatepartnership, or
        liquidationdepending on each case. For SNIM, the document stated that the
        Governmentwas ready to increase,if necessary, the shareheld by the private
        sectoronthe occasion of futureprojects. For enterpriseswith minority state
        participation,whether director indirect, thepolicy was to graduallywithdraw
        fiom most of them. The Declaration contained an annex with the option
        envisaged for eachenterpriseand the expected date for initiatingthe process.

4.5     Therewere institutionalchangesin GOM's management of the sector after the
issuance of the August 1998PolicyDeclaration. Sincethe staffresponsiblefor the
reform in MAED (formerlyMOP)had been increasinglyinvolvedwith the reform of the
private sector, a new unit was created in November 1998directlyunder the minister, with
the mandateto formulate,prepare, and monitorthe reform program. In addition,the
latter was organizedaroundthe four areason which GOM intended to concentrateits
efforts:post and telecom;water and electricity; air transp ;and other PEs. A
coordinatorwas appointed for each. The 1998policy did not affect SNIM,which did not
undergo changesin its capital structureor organization. Its production and export levels
remained fairly stablethrough the rest of the period (annex B, table 1).

4.6     TheBank responded to the Government'sdeterminationtopursue the reforms in
thepublic utility sector,by approvingin June 1999,the Telecommunicationsand Postal
SectorsReformProject (Cr. 3238-MAU- closed onDecember31,2003), and, in June
2000,theEnergy/Water/Sanitation SectorReform TechnicalAssistanceProject (Cr. 3377-
MAU) (stillongoing).A featureof thepublic utilityreform since 1998isthat the process

  Diclaration surla deuxiimephase de la reforme du secteurparapublic, August 1998.

                                             13


was led and managedmuchmore along sectorallinesthan in a centralizedmanner under
the leadershipof MAED. Thereform of the utility sectorisdiscussedbelow.

4.7    Restructuringof0PTi6 In July 1999,Parliament adopted a law liberalizingand
regulatingthe telecom sector and creatinga Regulatory Authority for the sector. In
December, the post and telecom activitieswere split by the creationof two entities,
Mauritel and Mauripost. Two licensesfor cellularphoneswere issuedin 2000: the first
in Juneto a TunisiadMauritanianconsortium(Mattel); the secondin July to Mauritel,
eachone for US$28 million equivalent. A third licensewas issued in April 2001 to
Mauritel to operatethe fixed line network in exclusivityuntil June 2004. In April 2001, a
strategicpartner fromMoroccobought 54percent of Mauritel's equity for
USW8 million. As aresult of itspartialprivatization,the market value of Mauritelwas
reported to have increasedfromUS$96million to US$130million, orby 35 percent.

4.8     The liberalization and privatization of thetelecom market had a dramatic effect on
servicecoverage:from 1990to 1997,the numberof fixed lines doubledto 12,500and
reached 40,000 by 2003; the numberof cellular lines has now reached 300,000. OPT
profitsbefore taxesrose fromUM 291 million in 1990to UM 743million in 1997.
However, during the secondhalf of the decade, profits stabilized at the UM 700-800
million level,with UM 781 million in 1999,the last year of OPT operations(annex B,
table 2).

4.9     Sincethe split,Mauriposthas undergone importantrestructuring: the number of
post offices has been cut by 50percent;personnel has been reduced by a similar   ,
percentage under socialplans implemented fairlysmoothly. As aresult, costs have been
reduced substantially. As of 2003, a comprehensivereorganizationplan was being
implementedcovering four areas: accounting; financialservices;audit; and
modernization of equipment and operations. In addition, Madpost is attemptingto
develop new commercialproductsbased on informationtechnologyto improve its
financialposition.However, until now, it has been dependent on GOM subsidiesand the
liquidityprovidedby the postal checking (CPP) and savingssystem. In additionto
improvingits financialposition, the greatest challengefacingMauripost will be to
separatecompletelythepostal activities from the "banking/financial" ones (annex B,
table 3).

4.10   One ofthemajor achievementsof the restructuringof thetelecodpost sectorwas
the creation of an independentRegulatoryAuthority. Accordingto manyreports and
observers,it isbest practiceby Afiican standards. Thetelecom licenses were granted
professionally and transparently. In January2001, Parliamentadopteda law extending
theAuthority's jurisdictionoverthepost,water, sanitation,and electricitysectors. The
good reputation enjoyed by theAuthority is largelydueto its strongleader
qualityof its staff. Until now, the cost of settingup and running the Auth
borne by the 1999Bank project and by a levy of 1.5percent on the turnover of the three
telecom operators          closureof the Bank credit, the Authoritywill necessarily
depend on budget           cations,as levieson operatorsare unlikelyto be sufficient,
therebypossiblyputting its independenceat risk. Twootherchallenges facingthe

16OPThadbeenan SN since October 1990in accordance with the 1990legislation.

                                                 14


  Authority in the near future are its capacity to regulate several sectors and to attract and
  retain high quality staff. AEter onlythree years of operation,the turnover has been fairly
  high.

  4.11    Restructuringof SONELEC.'7In accordancewith the policy enunciated in 1998,
  GOM moved to restructureSONELECto attract private participation and thus bring more
  efficiency in operationsand improvementin service. SinceGOM had no intentionof
  privatizingthe water activities,SONELECwas split-in July2001 into two entities:
  SocieteMauritanienned'Electricite (SOMELEC) and SocikteNationale de 1'Eau(SNDE).
  In early2002,GOM launchedthe privatization of the new electricitycompanywith the
  assistanceof the Bank,in the form of an IDA guarantee, and of the International Finance
  Corporation (IFC), in the form of a commitment. The attempt failed, largely as a result
  of a deteriorating internationalinvestment climatefollowingthe Enron and other scandals
  affecting the internationalenergysector. A new attempt at public/privatepartnership will
  be launched in 2004.

  4.12 Theprocess of separating SONELEC's assetsand several functions has been slow
  and the division of the commonassets and functionswill in fact not be completeduntil
  well into 2004. GOMhas no plans for the moment to move towardsprivatizationin the
  water sector, because it is sucha sensitiveissue. At most, it will be ready to envisage
  over the next few years a public-privatepartnership(annex B, tables 4 and 5 for selected
  data on SOMELEC and SNDE).

  4.13 Under a decade-longreform, SONELEC achievedmajorresults in improvingits
  financial situation and management. Thiswas due to a successhl implementation of
  threeperformancecontractsduringthe decade. The financialobjectiveswere
  consistentlymet thanksto increasedproduction and coverage; severaltariff increasesalso
  accountedfor this good performance. Itsprofitsbeforetaxes rose fiom UM 142million
  in 1990,to an annual averageof UM 470million in 1997-99, but fell to UM 151 million
  in 2000,the last year ofoperationas a singleentity(annex 13,table 6). The restructuring
  of the companywas also well managed and has greatlycontributedto clarifyingthe
  organization of the sectors,their mandate and responsibilities.

  4.14 However, up to now, the reform has not achieved itsjoint objectivesof attracting
  the private sector and expandingservices, akey goal of GOM's poverty reduction
  strategy. Theimproved financialposition of SONELECduringthe 1990sreflected
  largelya policy prioritizingincreasesin tariffs over improvingoperational efficiency,
  with the consequenceof raising factor costs and underminingcompetitiveness. Unless
  the private sector entersthe sectors, it is unlikelythat SOMELECand SNDE will be able
  to raise theiroperationaleMiciencyto be ableto contribute significantlyto the
  investmentsrequiredto meet the growth in demand, cu               stimated at 6 percent
  annually. Indeed,data of thepast decadeindicatethat S             EC failed to meet its
  technical performance targetsunder the performancecontracts,with its efficiencyratios
  for electricity and water, measuring theproportion ofproduction billed to customers,
  laggingbehind the objectives. Its collectionrate was also behind target and it continued
. to suffer fiom severetechnical losses, especiallyin water, althoughthey had been


    SONELEChadbeena SN since October 1990 in accordancewith the 1990 legislation.

                                                             15


reduced substantiallysincethe early 1990s. Key technical and financialindicatorsfor the
water and electricitysectorsarepresented in table 4.1.

Table4.1: SelectedTechnical and FinancialIndicatorsfor Water and Electricity, 1990-2003
                                                           1990          1991        I995    1997     2002       2003
Water
No. of connections                                           n.a.    19,481 25,927          28,921     ma. 52,000
No. of connectionsper agent                                  n.a.          78         106      119     n.a.       n.a.
Globalefficiency(billing/prod)(in %)             "'       67.84        71.90        71.71    75.20   66.99        n.a.
Electricity
No. of connections                                           n.a. 20,322 29,699 34,521                 n.a.     70,000
No. of connectionsper agent                                   48           42          60       72       89        100
Globalefficiency(billing/prod)(in %) db'                  83.44         84.40       84.87    83.70   73.84        n.a.
Water +electricity
Collectionrate (in%)        '                             71.10     ,   70.10       77.10    85.10   81.90        n.a.
Source: SOMELEC.
a/ Global efficiency in 2002 is lower due to elimination of internal consumption.
b/ In 2002, technical and commercial lossesfor electricity amounted to 9 and 17percent, respectively. For water,
  technical lossesare high due to the decayof the networks.
cl In 2002, the rate for private users stood at 92 percent; the global figure is lowerdue toziEPAsand  the
  militarykecurity forces not paying their bills or paying late.

4.15     Therewas substantialprogressin two other enterprisescoveredby the PESAP.
SinceOctober 1990,and until 2000, Air Mauritanie was amajority state-owned
enterprise. All effortsat restructuring and rehabilitationfailed under the PESAP and the
PESIDTA. Themain reasonswere: lack of management commitment,weak institutional
capacity,but also lack ofpolitical will to enforcethe required restructuringmeasures or
divestthe company. The financial situation deterioratedcontinuouslythroughout the
decade'toreach a deficit of UM 1,400million in 1997(annexB, table 7). In 1998,GOM
provided a subsidy of UM 1.6 billion while the companywas placed in receivership. In
2000, anew companywas created as a Limited Company. An audit was launchedwhich
identifiedthe structural problems facedby the company. Followingthe adoption of
drasticpersonnel and rationalization measures and the leasingof a Boeing 737-700,the
company decided to assume the linespreviouslyoperated by Air Afrique, including three
flightsa week to Paris. As of October2003, all arrears to suppliers, includinginsurance
premia, had been liquidated.

4.16     The management of the Port ofNouakchott (PANPA)was considerably
strengthenedunder two successfullyimplementedperformancecontracts. The financial
and technical targetswere consistentlymet or exceeded and the improvement in financial
performance enabled theport to self-financeits operatingefficiencyplan. Theport
moved fiqm a deficitof overUM 140millionin 1990to a level of profitsbefore taxes of
overUM 300million overthe past five years (annex B, table 8). Cargohandlingand
otherport serviceswere privatized at the beginning of the reform.

4.17     With regard to the two main monopolies abolished under the PESAP, there were
no new developmentssincethe closingof the project. The export-importcompany in
which the Statereduced itsparticipation from 63 to 55 percent in 2000, has seen its
profits decline consistently sincethe abolition of its monopolyoverthe import and
distributionof rice, tea, and sugar at the beginningofthe 1990s(annex B, table 9). The

                                               16


fishingexport company,which was privatized in 1993,with the Statekeeping 35percent
of its capital,has maintained exclusiverights on the export of special fish species,
notablythe cephalopods (annex B, table 10).

The PE Sector in 2003

4.18     Whenjudging the size of the PE sector, the main criterion is not the number of
enterprises,but their degree of autonomyasprovided by their legal status. In this
connection, it is importantto note that, under Mauritanian law, Limited Companies
(SociCtCsAnonymes) are not considered asPEs and are not governed by the 1990
legislation. Mauritania makes a distinctionbetween SEMs,reserving #is term for
enterprisesin which the Statehas majority ownershipand which have reporting
obligationsunder the 1990legislation, and Limited Companiesin which it holds a
minorityparticipation. In this latter category, the Stateis to be consideredas any
shareholder. Consideringonlythe number of enterprisesis therefore misleading.

4.19 The 2003 OEDmission found that, as of end-2003,there were 18PEs, ofwhich
the Statehad total or majority ownership (10EPICs, 3 SNs, and 5 SEMs), 8 Limited
Companieswith direct minority participation,and 1Limited Companywith indirect
minorityparticipation,for a total of 27. This excludesbanks and the seven subsidiariesof
SNIM. The list of PEs as of 2003 is in annex C. Table 4.2 shows the size of the PE
sectorin terms of number at selected dates.

Table4.2: Number of PublicEnterprises,selecteddates (1990-2003)
(excludingEPAs,banks, andsubsidiariesof SNMJ
                                          1990             1995    1997     1998    2003
            Source              Prior toDecree AfierDecree 1996 PESIDTA GOM         OED
                                   90-154        90-154   PPAR      ZCR    Dedur. Mission
EPIC                                  20             7       6       10       10     10
SN                                                  4        2        2        2       3
SEM (Majority)                         15           11       4        7        7       5
SA (Minorityparticipation)             15           11       5       10       10       9
  dw directparticipation            n.a.          n.a.     n.a.       8        8       8
  olw indirect participation        n.a.          n.a.     n.a.       2        2       1
Total                                 50            33      17       29       29     27
Sources and Notes: Annexes A and C.


4.20     The table showsan increasein the number of PEs, from 17in 1995,asreportedby
the 1996PPAR,to 29 in 1997,asreported by the ICR ofthe PESIDTA. Lookingonlyat
the number would appearto indicatean unfavorableoutcome. However, it istheopposite.
Between 1990and 1997,GOM created sevenPEs (4 EPICs, 2 majority state-owned
SEMs, and 1SAwith minority state.participation) as a result ofthe corporatizationof
state-runassets and commercial services that were previouslypart of ministerialor
adrmnistrative services. One exampleis thetransferof the road maintenance unit ofthe
Ministryof Public Works to an entitycreated as an EPIC (ENER-EtablissementNational
pour I'EntretienRoutier) (see footnote 8 for details). As PEs, they enjoymuchmore
autonomyin deliveringservicesand financiallythan governmentdepartments. Another

                                                17


 reason for a stilllargernumber in 2003 comparedwith 1996is the splittingof OPT and
 SONELECgivingriseto two additionalentities.

 4.21    Thetable showsthat the number of PEs and Limited Companieshas stabilized
 under 30overthepast few years. Someof the reasons arethe following: (i)the
 non-profitablecompanieshave longbeen liquidatedor their assetssold; (ii) for anumber of
  Limited Companies, GOMhas found it difficultto sell itsparticipation for diplomatic
 reasons, asthey arejointly owned with other governments, such asLibya or otherArab
  countries,but someofthese are no longeroperating;and (iii)in thecaseofthe refinery, it
 has ceased to operatebecause its capacitywas much higherthan theneeds ofthe
 MauriSanianmarket. Therefore, not taking inttxaccount Limited Companiesand the
  enterprisesthat arenot operating, thenumber of PEs in 2003 wouldbe much smallerthan
. indicatedinthetable.

 4.22 Thus, broadly speaking,there remain four groups of enterprises: (i)a core group
  ofpublic infiastructureenterprises; (ii) SNIMand its subsidiaries;(iii) thepublic utilities,
  which, except for Mauripost,GOM intendsto bring to privatizationorpublic-private
 partnership as soon asthe market allows; and (iv) a variety of enterprisesin which GOM
  intends to furtherreduce its shareholding.
  4.23   There areno readily availabledata on the relativeweight of the sector at the
 present time, but it is likelyto stillbe close to 15percent of GDP, since SNIMalone
 represents some 11-12percent and someof the largest enterprises are stillin the
 portfolio. Also, it is virtually impossibleto ascertainhow this weight has evolved over
 timeduringthe reform period. Changes in legal status,non-differentiationof
  administrativeand professional entities from industrial and commercial ones, lack of or
 poor reportinghave all contributed to a relativeopacity in the true economicweight of
  the sectorthroughoutthe period.
  4.24 A comprehensivedatabase coveringall the enterprisesin which the Statehas
  holdingscoveringtheperiod analyzedhere isnot available.The series arenot always
  completeand consistent and informationon Limited Companiesin which the Statehas
 participation is scantyor non-existent(those companies arenot required to report their
  financialstatementsto GOM).
  4.25 Even the impact of thePE sector on public finances cannot be estimatedwith
  certainty.The definition of what constitutesa subsidy to public enterprisesisuncertain.
  It appearsthat MOF does not consider extendingh d s ex anteto a PE, for instance in the
  contextof obligationsunder aperformance contract, to complementthe water or
  electricitytariff chargedor ascompensationfor runningunprofitable lines (e.g., some
  destinationsof Air Mauritanie) as a subsidy. According to
 would be defined only as a payment to cover the losses of
 basis of such a definition, GOM argues that there have been no subsidiesin favorof PEs
  sincethe structuraladjustmentprogram started in the mid-1980s,exceptin the case of
 Mauripost,which is not financiallyviable sinceits split from the telecom sector. In the
  case of Air Mauritanie and SONELEC, the paymentsmade are considered as
  compensationand not subsidies. In addition, there is no integrationbetweenthe database
  of DTEP and that of the tax directorateto assessthe true contributionof PEs to revenues.

                                                    18


4.26     Figure 4.1 provides an estimateof the impact on the budget under the PESAP and
the PESIDTAby looking at the sevenmajor PEs targeted under theseprojects.I8
Figure4.1 presentstwo curves: (i) one shows the net differencebetween the subsidies(in
the economic
sense)to six of                        Figure 4.1: Net Contributionto the Budget forSelectedPES             1
                               ::::
the PEs,19                                                       (1990-2001)                   -+-
excludingSNIM,                                                                                    SNIM:
                                                                                                  Taxes
and the corporate                                                                                 Payable
taxespayable by             f 3000                                                                minus
these enterprises           g  2000                                                               Subsidies.

over the period                                                                                +Six PEs:
1990to 2001                                                                                       Taxes
(taxesactually                                                                                    Payable
                                                                                                  minus
paid are not                                                                                      Subsidies.
readily available);                   1990 1991 B92 1993 1994 199s 1996 B97 1998 l999 2000 2001
and (ii) the other         Source: Annex D.                                                                  J
showsthe net
difference for SNIM.

4.27     Totalsubsidiesto the seven PEs fluctuated somewhatoverthe years, fiom
UM 385.7 millionin 1990to UM 449.5 million in 2001,with a sharprise to UM 1,757.7
million in 1998,on account of Air Mauritanie. Overtheperiod, thebulk ofdirect subsidies
went to Air Mauritanie, SONELEC,and latelyto Mauripost,whiletheywerenil for SNIM.
Onthe revenue side, therewas a strongincreasein taxespayable, fiomUM 410millionin
1990to UM 4,355.2 millionin 2001,reflectingthe improved situationof SNIM afterits
financialrehabilitationunder the PESAP. By far, SNIMprovidesthe lion shareof
revenuesto the State. Annex D providesthe details forthe sevenPEs fkom 1990to 2002.
4.28     The value of the sale of assetsby the State fiom 1989to 2002 is estimatedat
someUS$59 million, includingthe saleof shares in Mauritel for US$48 million, but
excludingthe value of the two mobilephone licensesfor US$56 million.




Is Data were not available to the October 2003 OED missionfortaxespayableby Mauritel, an important
company whichpays taxes. Similarly,data forAirMauritanie were not available forthe last three years.
For SMCP,the series atMOF is discontinuedafter 1995.
l9 OPT, SONELEC,Air Madtanie, PANPA, SONIMEX,and SMCP. Figure 4.1 coversthe enterprises
resulting fromthe split of OPT and SONELEC,aftertheir dissolution.

                                                19


5.     Outcome and Assessment

Outcome

5.1    Theoutcomeofthe PESAP is rated satisfactory onbalance as in the 1996PPAR. This
rating appliesto all of theprogram's components,includingconditionsfor release. Mauritania
has come a longway in reformingits PE sector fiom the situation prevailing in the late 1980s
when the PESAPwas under preparation. First, the legal frameworkwas modified and
strengthenedallowingforprivatization and more autonomyofPEs, and, all alongthe 199Os, the
Government has taken actionsto pursue this line.

5.2     Second,the major enterpriseswere successfullyrestructured. SNZM,which was making
huge losses,had its financesrestructuredand now makes profit. The conditions, including
favorableworld market conditions, arenow appropriatefor further actionby GOM in seekinga
strategicpartner for SNIM. OPT was completelyreorganized, with Mauritel emergingas a
profitable enterpriseoperatingunder ahighly regarded regulatoryauthority. SONELECwas
successfullysplit into two enterprises,thus clarifying greatlythe institutional settingfor
electricity and water.

5.3     Third, the sectorwas considerablycleared of "deadwood" and rationalized. In 1990,the
sectorwas a large amorphousmass of ill-defined and poorlyperforming companies, it isnow
much leaner and well organizedinto clearlydefined categoriesof enterpriseswith the natureof
their activities largelycorrespondingto their legal status. The sectoris financially sound,with
SNIMcontributinglargesumsto the Treasury;this isprobablythe case for the otherPEs as a
whole, if tax data for Mauritelwere available. Finally, the relationsbetweenthe Government
and the enterprises are muchbetter defined,with littleinterferencein their day-today
management.

5.4    Despitemany positive results,there are still shortcomingsthat need to be recognized.
Private sectorparticipation isneeded in SOMELECto improve services, ensuregreater
operationalefficiency, and financenew investments. Privateparticipation would increaseprofits
and reduce even furthernet subsidiesthat SOMELEC stillreceives fiom the Government. For
SNDE, as in the case of water utilitiesin other desert countries,the Government remains
cautious in restructuring the sector. Mauripost, as virtuallyall post offices, is unlikelyto become
financially viablewithout continuedsubsidies. Finally, although Air Mauritanie (which is now
overwhelminglyprivately owned)underwent drasticrestructuringand its financial situationis
improving,it remains to be seenwhether it will be ableto carve a profitablemarket in West
Afiica. Still,on balance, outcome israted satisfactory.

5.5    Lack or paucity of dataprevents amoreprecisejudgment of the PESAP's outcome in
economicterms. However, the goodperformance of the economyin the secondhalf of the
1990s(seesection 2 and table 2.1 above)undoubtedlyreflects, inter a h ,the improvements
achieved in the PE sector.

                                                 20


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact (IDI)

5.6     Although the ID1of Bank assistanceas a whole in the PE sectorhas been substantial,the
impact of the PESAP on institutionaldevelopmenthas been modest, compared to moderate in
the 1996PPAR. Bank assistance under variousprojects supportedthe excellent performance of
the RegulatoryAuthority, the successfulrestructuringof OPT and SONELEC,the privatization
of MAURITEL, and the experience gained with the privatizationattemptof SOMELEC.
However, the capacityof MOF to monitorthe financialperformance of the sectorhas gradually
declined,dueto apparent reduced interest,loss in momentum, and insufficientvisibility, with the
result that it doesnot have now the quality staffneeded to managethe portfolio of the State as a
true shareholder. Similarly,at MAED, the staffhas been cut and its influencereduced
consequentto a shift since 1998in favor of a predominantly sectoral approach,,asnoted already.
The Government doesnot have e adequatetool required to play an activerole as shareholder,
not only in the enterprises in which the Stateholds the entiretyor majority of shares,but also in
the Limited Companiesin which it holds a minorityparticipation.

5.7     Thepaucityin-or lack of--comprehensive and consistent data on the sectorover the
years is a seriousobstacle for the State in monitoringand evaluatingits performance. There is
no readily available data on the weight of the sectorin the economy, suchas output,
employment, investment,revenues, foreign exchange earnings, etc.

Sustainability

5.8     The sustainabilityis rated likely, comparedto uncertain in the PPAR. Sincethe latter
was prepared in 1996,it hasbecome much clearer that the results achievedunder the PESAP
have proved sustainablein the long-run: SNIM continuesto this dayto have a good operational
and financialperformance;the sectorhasbecome much leaner and more transparentwith the
Statehardly involved in productive activities. For instance,the fisheriessector, in which it used
to play a dominantrole, isnow completelyin private hands. Not only has therebeen no reversal
in policies, but thepoliciespursued under the PESAPwere deepened and extended after 1998,
with major progress in the utility and air transport sectors. However, the likely sustainability
rating needs to be temperedby pointing out somepotential risks. It is stillnot clear how the
privatization of SOMELEC,the strengthening and reorganization of Mauripost, and the
competitivenessof Air Mauritanie will evolve. Successor failurein this area will depend as
much on exogenousfactors ason GOM's continuedabilityto deepen and broaden the reform
agenda. An important and first test in this regard will be whether a second attemptto attract a
foreigninvestorto SOMELECwill be successful. In the case of SNIM,the decision to attract a
strategicpartner is a highlypolitical and sensitivematter.

Bank Performance

5.9     Bank performanceis rated satisfactory,as in the PPAR. After the closingof the PESAP
in mid-1994, the Bank pursued the dialoguewith the authoritiesin the kameworkof the
PESlDTAand PSD operations, with the objectiveof helpingmove PE policies towards greater
openness. This dialoguewasresponsiblefor the breakthroughin policiesin 1998,to which the
Bank responded swiftlyby preparingthe TA projectsof 1999and 2000. The advice providedby
the Bank proved critical in extendingthe spirit of the reform through the second half of the
decade. However, the Bank overestimated the capacitybuilding achievedby the central units

                                                21


and shouldhave focusedmore on keeping a better balancebetweenthese and the support
provided at the sectoral level.

Borrower Performance

5.10 As in the PPAR, borrower performance israted satisfactory. The commitmentofthe
Governmentto reformhas been steadfastduringthe PESAP and beyond. GOM was quickto
adopt the necessary legislationto divest non-profitable assets. It continuesto do sotoday, by
reducingor eliminatingitsparticipationin activitiesthat do not have a public or socialcharacter.
However, for several years, the Governmentwas hesitant to move to privatization, although it
recognized itsmerits, even in public utility companies. It is still hesitant to open SNIM's capital
to a strategicpartner.

Comparison of Ratingsin 1996 and 2004

5.11     In summary, the comparisonof ratingsbetween the 1996PPAR and the 2004 PPRR is as
follows:

                                        OED 1996PPAR                   OED2004PPRR
Outcome                                     Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
InstitutionalDevelopment Impact             Moderate.                     Modest
Sustainability                              Uncertain                     Likely
Bank Performance                            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory                 'Satisfactory


                                              23


6.      Lessons

Lessons of Broad Applicability

6.1     Mauritania's experiencein PE reform has several lessonsof generalapplicability
for other countries.

    0   The reform of the parapublic sector, even in a smallcountry, is a very long
        processmeasured in decades rather than in years. Its outcomein economicterms
        and impact on PSD take many years to materialize, Issues are numerous and
        complex: political, legal, social, financial,etc. Bank countryassistancestrategies
        and projectsshould plan PE reforms over a longperiod of time.

    0   Proper sequencingin PE reforms is critical. The first step shouldbe streamlining
        and strengtheningthe legal and institutional framework. The input of the Legal
        Department earlyin the processis essential.

    0   To move from a phase of rehabilitatiodrestructuringto a phase ofprivatization or
        public-privatepartnership is a big step and may represent for somegovernmentsa
        difficultand delicatedecision. ContinuousBank support is essential.

    0   Abroad PE reform managed and monitored at the central level shouldbe
        complemented by sectorreform supportedby TAprojects, especiallyin the case
        ofpublic utilities. In the case of Mauritania,the outcome of the programwould
        have been different if it had not been for the TA projects of the late 1990s.

    0   In PE reforms, performance agreementsmay be valuable toolsinthe
        rehabilitationand restructuringphase, but theirpurpose is limited and their
        successhighlydependenton the commitmentand independenceof each side.
        They are usehl for inculcatingoperationaland financial disciplinebut not for
        attracting investment.

    0   The settingup of a M&E system is essential to monitor PEs'operationaland
        financialperformance in a consistentmanner and over a length of time. It also
        requires a staff capable of analyzingdata. Bank projects shouldpayparticular
        attention to this at preparatiodappraisal.


Lessons for Re-assessmentby OED

6.2     In the case of adjustmentprograms, whose implementationtakes morethan a few
years,.an assessmentby OED after a longerperiod of time (say 10-12years) maybe
desirable. Sucha reassessment shedsa different light with direct implications for how to
applyOED's usual rating criteria. In particular, the Mauritania case clearly showsthat
ID1 and sustainabilitycan be much better appreciated after a longerperiod. Also, in this
case, the reassessmenthas proved quite complex and demandingin terms of obtaining
information on the evolutionin the sizeand compositionof the PE sectoroverthe years
and on the financialdata.


                                                       25                                 Annex A



-.(excludingEPAs,banks,andsubsidiariesofSNIMa
  Sizeof the Public Enterprise Sector,selected dates (1990-2003)


                                      1990                    1995  . 1997        1998      2003
         Source             Priorto       AfserDecree         1996  PESIDTA       GOM       OED
                                           "
                        Decree 90-154        90-154       PP'         ICR        Dedar. Mission
   EPIC                        20                 7             6      10           10        10
   SN                                             4             2        2           2         3
   SEM + SA                    30               22              9      17           17        14
   SEM (Majority)              15               11              4        7           7         5
   SA (Minoritypart.)          15               11              5      10           10         9
     Directpart.              n.a.             n.a.           n.a.       8           8         8
     Indirect part.           n,a.             n.a.           n.a.       2           2         1
   Total                       50               33             17      29          29         27
  Notes:
  aDecree 90-154of Oct. 22, 1990lists 3 subsidiariesof SNIM. Therewere 7 in 2003 (seeannex D).
    In 1997and 1998,NASR (Insurance),34 percent through 4 parastatals;and MEPP (oildepots), 11.56percent
  through NAFTEC. In 1999, GOM sold its participationinNASR.

  Sources:
  Decree90-154 of Oct. 22, 1990.
  PPAR: PPAR of the PESAP.
  ICR ICR of the PESIDTA.
  Decl.: GOM, Declarationsur la deuxikmephase de la rCforme du secteurparapublic,August 1998.
  2003 Mission: Idormationobtainedby the October2003 OED mission.


                                              27                             Annex B


Financial Situation of Various Public Enterprise


Table 1: SNIM
(in million of Ouguiyas,unless otherwiseindicated)
                                    1990    1997   1998    1999      2000   ZOO1 2002
 Legal status                       SME     SME    SME     SME       SME    SME SME
 Equity capital                   16,955 18,457 18,457 18,686 18,686 18,644
 Personnel(units)                   5,660   3,824  3,780  3,717      3,730  3,730
 Turnover                         17,960 33,209 41,666 43,320 54,184 49,108
 Turnovedemployee(`000)             2,809   8,684 11,023 11,655 14,527 13,166
 Value added                      10,231 19,125 26,232 24,070 29,335 25,473
 Value addedemployee(`000)          1,601   5,001  6,940  6,476      7,865  6,829
 Cash flow/turnover(MBA) (in %)     26.0     29.0   37.0   26.0       30.0   33.O
 Debtlequity                          1.4     1.6    1.4     1.6       1.8    1.7
 Return on equity (in %)             1.15    1.57   2.03    1.95      2.00   1.93
 Operating subsidy                     0        0      0      0          0      0
 Incomebefore taxes"                1,744   7,188 12,281  7,728      9,383  5,815
                                                                    ~


 Taxes                                  0   3,159  3,919  4,067      4,703  4,180
 Net income                         1,744   4,029  8,362  3,661      4,680  1,635
Source: DTPE.




Table2: OPT
(in million of Ouguiyas,unless otherwise indicated)
                                              1990      I997           1998     1999a
Legal status                                    SN        SN             SN        SN
Equitycapital                                   33        864          1,500     2,100
Personnel (units)                              695       963            963        963
Turnover                                     1,437      4,845         5,685      6,307
Turnover/employee(`000)                      2,067      5,031         5,904      6,549
Value added                                  1,oo1      3,134         3,600      3,887
Value addedemployee(`000)                    1,440      3,254         3,738      4,037
Cash flowlturnover(MBA)(in %)                 50.4      43.1           41.8       27.6
Debtlequity                                     7.5       2.7            2.7       2.0
Retunl on equity(in %)                       17.90      2.91            1.91      1.54
Operatingsubsidy                                22          9              0         0
Incomebeforetaxes                              291        743           694        781
Taxes                                            0          0             0         0
Net income                                     291        743           694        781
a Last year of operation.

Annex B (continued)                                  28


Table 3: MAUFUPOST
(in million of Ouguiyas, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                        2000                          2001
Legal status                                              SN                           SN
EGity capital                                             500                         500
Personnel (units)a                                        963                         963
Turnover                                                  693                         665
Turnover/employee (`000)                                  719                         691
Value added                                              -122                          -49
Value addedemployee (`000)                                  0                            0
Cashflow/turnover (MBA) (in %)                           13.3                         20.1
Debvequity                                                4.0                          4.2
Return on equity (in %)                                  0.92                         0.85
Operatingsubsidy                                          466                         450
Incomebefore taxes                                        -30                          -18
Taxes                                                      12                           13
Net income                                                -42                          -31
  The dataof DTPE stillreflect the totalnumber of employeesof OPT, which is incorrect.

Source: DTPE.




Table4: SOMELEC
1
                                               2001                2002                  2003
Legal status                                      SN                SN                   SN
Equity capital                                 6,140
Personnel (units)                                 978
Turnover                                       4,005
Turnover/employee (`000)                       4,095
Value added                                    1,162
Value addedemployee (`000)                     1,189
Cash flow/turnover (MBA)(in %)                    1.o
Debvequity                                        0.9
Return on equity(in %)                           1.oo
Operatingsubsidy                                   0
Income beforetaxes                                 52
Taxes                                              36
Net income                                         16
a The company was created in July 2001, with the first financial statement for that year.
  Includespersonnel of projects of towns being electrified.

Source: DTPE.

                                                       29                   Annex B (continued)


Table 5: SNDE a
(in million ofOuguiyas, unless otherwiseindicated)
                                                2001                2002              2003
Legal status                                       SN                  SN              SN
Equity capital                                  5,475               5,475
Personnel (units)
Turnover                                          900               2,206
Tumover/employee(`000)
Value added
Value addedempioyee (`000)
Cash flow/turnover(MF3A) (in %)
Debdequity                                         0.2                 0.2
                                                  1.39               2.26

Income before taxes                               188                 181
Taxes                                              10                   36
Net income                                        178                 145
a As of October 2003, DTPEhad no informationon SNDE'sfinancial statements. The data in thistable were
obtainedfiom SNDE and are fragmentary.

Source: SNDE.




Table6: SONELEC*
(inmillion of Ouguiyas, unlessotherwiseindicated)
                                               1990         1997       I998     1999         2000
 Legal status                                    SN           SN         SN      SN            SN
 Equity capital                               2,780         3,700      3,700   3,700         5,315
 Personnel (units)                              492           929        943    978            978
 Turnover                                     2,821         6,045     6,731    6,996         7,877
 Tumovedemployee(`000)                        5,735         6,507      7,137   7,154         8,054
 Value added                                  1,244         3,322      3,679   3,220        2,876
 Value addedemployee(`000)                    2,529         3,575     3,902    3,293        2,941
 Cash flow/tumover(MBA) (in %)                  33.0         36.0       14.0    25.O          12.0
 Debt/equity                                     2.2          0.8        0.9      1.1          0.9
 Return on equity (in %)                        0.97         1.20       1.19    1.24          1.17
 Operating subsidy                              363           120        109     113           149
 Incomebefore taxes                             142          488         588    332            151
 Taxes                                             0            57       422     154            74
 Net income                                     142          430         166     177            76
* Startingwith 2001, the financial statementswere separated for SOMELECand SNDE.
  Startingwith 1994,includespersonnelof projectsof towns being electrified.

Source: DTF'E.

Annex B (continued)                                   30


Table 7: AIR MAURITANIE
(in million of Ouguiyas, unless otherwise indicated)
                                         1990 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
 Legal status                              SEM SEM SEM SEM SEM SEM                      SA     SA     SA
 Equity capitala                            150    735    735     735     821 1,459          1,311 1,311
 Personnel (units)                          344    391    368     368     302    302
 Turnover                                 1,340 1,780 1,753 2,190 3,611 2,100                2,965 5,428
 Turnover/employee(`000)                  3,895 4,551 4,762 5,952 11,956 6,955
 Value added                              1,244   477     480     677     396 -8,614
 Value addedlemployee (`000)              1,414 1,220 1,304 1,840 1,312          -29
 Cash flow/tumover(MBA) (in %) -41.0              -5.0 -16.0     -9.0 -11.0      n.a.
 Debuequity                                 9.7    3.1   14.0 41.9         1.9   4.2
 Return on equity (in YO)                 -4.41   0.32 -0.77 -2.68       0.19 -0.24
 Operating subsidy                            0    120    120     149 1,639      201
 Incomebefore taxes                        -673   -209 -801 -1,404 1,117        -508
 Taxes                                        0      0      0        0      0      0
 Net income                                -673   -209 -801 -1,404 1,117        -508
a For 1998and 1999,equitycapital effectivelyliberated.

Source: DTPE.




Table 8: PANPA
(in million of Ouguiyas,unless otherwise indicated)
                                            1990      1997       1998       1999     2000       2001
 Legal status                               EPIC      EPIC       EPIC       EPIC     EPIC      EPIC
 Equity capital                               261     1,218      1,218      1,218    1,218     1,218
 Personnel (units)a                           620      240        240        240       240       240
 Turnover                                     502     1,102      1,421      1,630    1,601     1,897
 Tumover/employee(`000)                       809    4,592      5,920      6,792     6,670     7,904
 Value added                                  236      627        874         881      855     1,128
 Value addedlernployee(`000)                  378    2,615      3,642      3,671     3,563     4,700
 Cash flow/tumover(MBA)(in %)                18.5     21.1        30.9       28.3     31.9      18.8
 Debvequity                                 -21.5       0.1        0.1        0.1      0.1        0.1
 Return on equity (in %)                    -1.03      1.57       1.58       1.61     1.68      1.74
 Operating subsidy                              0         0         10          0       44          0
 Income before taxes                         -143      317        325        274       304       334
 Taxes                                         21       180       209         157      132        90
 Net income                                  -164       137        116        117      172       243
aThe data of DTPEhas two setsofnumber of employees,startingin 1995: 568 and 240,each for all remaining
years, which is incorrect. The figureof 240 isprobablycorrect,since about 255 employeeswere dismissedafter the
construction of the new port, the Portde 1'Amitie.

Source: DTPE.

                                                31             Annex B (continued)


Table9: SONIMEX
(inmillion of Ouguivas. unless otherwise indicated)
                                                   7997   1998    1999       2000
                                                          SME     SME        SME
 Eqhy capital                               914     914    914     914        914
 Personnel (units)                          300     193     175     180        180
 Turnover                                 8,164   2,089   3,909   3,503      1,288
 Turnover/employee (`000)                27,213   10,823 22,338  19,460      7,138
 Value added                                 23      93    293      147        -50
 Value added/employee(`000)                  76     481   1,677     818       -280
 Cash flow/tumover(MBA) (in %)              -0.1   14.9     0.3      1.8       7.8
 Debtlequity                               28.6      1.6    1.5      1.4       2.5
 Return on equity (in YO)                  0.08    1.23    1.25    1.25       1.26
 Operatingsubsidy                             0       9      10       0          0
 Incomebefore taxes                        -123      80     125     128         62
 Taxes                                      327      60      96      98         26
 Net income                                -454      19     29       30         36
Source: DTPE.




Table 10: SMCP
(in millionof Ouguiyas, unless otherwiseindicated)
                                                   1990               1995
 Legal status                                        SN                SME
 Equity capital                                      500                110
 Personnel (units)                                   120                 84
 Turnover                                         10,288                549
 Turnover/employee(`000)                          85,733              6,539
 Value added                                       1,584                416
 Value addedemployee (`000)                       13,204              4,956
 Cash flow/turnover(MBA) (in %)                      1.o               29.0
 Debtlequity                                         0.8                0.6
 Return on equity (in %)                            1.26               2.75
 Operating subsidy                                     0                  0
 Incomebefore taxes                                  145                209
 Taxes                                                63                110
 Net income                                           82                 99
a DTPE doesnot have data forSMCP after 1995.

Source: DTPE.


                                                           33                                    Annex C

Public EnterprisesandLimited Companieswith StateParticipation-2003 (excludingbanks)
                                                                                      Direct Indirect Total
                                                                                     holding holding holding

     PublicEntenrises (governed bv Ordinance90-09                              EPIC 100.00           100.00
1    CaisseNationale de SecwitOSociale(CNSS)                                   EPIC 100.00           100.00
2    EtablissementNational pour 1'EntretienRoutier (ENER) (1994)               EPIC 100.00           100.00
3    EtablissementPortuaire de la Baie de Repos (EPBR) (after                  EPIC 100.00           100.00
     1996)
4    ImprimerieNationale(IN)                                                   EPIC 100.00           100.00
5    OfficeNational des Awqafs (OdA)(after 1996)                               EPIC 100.00           100.00
6    Port Autonome deNouadhibou (PAN)                                          EPIC 100.00           100.00
7    Port Autonome de Nouakchott (PANPA)                                       EPIC 100.00           100.00
8    Societedes Bacs de Ross0 (SBR)(after 1996)                                EPIC 100.00           100.00
9    SociCt6Mauritanienne des Industriesde Raffnage (SOMIR)                    EPIC 100.00            100.00
10   Soci6tONationale de DCveloppementRural (SONADER)                          EPIC 100.00           100.00

10   TotalEPIC

11   MAWRIPOST                                                                   SN 100.00            100.00
12   SOMELEC                                                                     SN 100.00            100.00
13   SNDE                                                                        SN 100.00            100.00

3    TotalSN

14   CAMEC(2002)                                                               SEM      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
15   SNIM8                                                                     SEM     78.35          78.35
16   SAN -SociOtCdesAbattoirsde Nouakchott (after 1996)                        SEM     70.60          70.60
17   SONIMEX                                                                   SEM     55.00          55.00
18   SOCOGIM                                                                   SEM     94.25    4.89  99.14

5    TotalMajority SEM

     Limited ComDanieswith StateParticbation
19   AIR MAURITANIE                                                              SA     4.00            4.00
20   NAFTEC`                                                                     SA    34.00          34.00
21   SMCP                                                                        SA    35.00          35.00
22   MAURITEL                                                                    SA    46.00          46.00
23   SOMAGAZ                                                                     SA    34.00          34.00
24   S A M (after 1996)                                                          SA    10.00    2.00   12.00
25   MPN -March6 au Poissonde Nouakchott(after 996)                              SA    31.00           31.OO
26   SAMIN                                                                       SA    37.50           37.50

8    TotalSA (Direct +Indirect)

26   GRANDTOTALEPIC+SN SEM +SA          +
   SNIM had seven subsidiariesin 2003 (with percentage of capital held):
   Societe d'Acconage et de Manutentionen Mauritanie (SAMMA) (52.50 %)
   Societe Arabe du Fer et de I'Acier (SAFA) (75.00 %)
   Societe Mauritaniennede Serviceset de Tourisme (SOMARSET) (100.00 %)
   Societe d'Assainissement,de Travaux, de Transportet de Maintenance(ATTM) (lOO.00%)
  Construction MCcaniquede I'Atlantique(COMECA) (92.49 %)
   Socikte Arabedes IndustriesMCtallurgiques(SAMIA) (50.00%)
   Granites et Marbresde Mauritanie(GMM) (62.80 %)
   Limited companies arenot public enterprisesand are not governed by Ordinance 90-09.
  The State has an indirect participationof 11.56percent in MEPP (oil depots) through NAFTEC.

Sources: UGP and DTEP.


Main PEs: Direct OperatingSubsidiesandTaxeson OperatingResults, 1990-2002(inmillionof Ouguiyas)
                                  1990                                    1991                     1992    1993    1994   I995    1996    1997     1998    1999    2000    2001   2002

Direct Operating Subsidies
AIR MAURITANIE                     0.0                                                0.0           0.0    175.0   150.0  120.0   120.0   149.4  1,639.0  201.5   201.5
                                                                                                                                                                   l?miaA   n.a.   n.a.
SNIM                               0.0                                               0.0            0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
SONELEC                           363.3                               540.3                        181.1  219.3    140.6  121.1  200.0    120.0    108.6   113.3
OPT                               22.4                                                9.7            I.5     1.6     9.7   10.5    10.1     9.3      0.0     0.0v////
PANPA                              0.0                                                0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     10.1     0.0    43.8     0.0   n.a.
SON1MEX                            0.0                                                0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   0.0
SMCP                               0.0                                                0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0     n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    ma.     n.a.    n.a.   n.a.

SOMELEC
SNDE
MAURIPOST
MAURITEL

TotalI                            385.7                                550.0                       182.6  395.9   300.3   251.6  330.1    278.7 1,757.7   314.8    860.3   449.5   0.0

Corporatetaxes
AIR MAURITANlE                     0.0                                          18.5                 0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    n.a.   n.a.
SNIM                               0.0                                                0 0            0.0  747.1   975.6   303.9 2,839.4 3,158.5 3,918.9  4,067.5 4,702.9 4,180.1
SONELEC                            0.0                                                0.0          23.7    150.1   41.1    43.1    49.8    57.2   422.3                                  w
OPT                                0.0                                                0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0
PANPA                             20.7                                        49.2                 65.9    83.6     65.1   87.7   115.7   180.4    209.5   156.8   132.4    90.5   n.a.
SONIMEX                           326.6                               279.7                        308.8  335.1    141.5  106.3   113.7    60.3    95.7     98.1    26.1    26.1   n.a.
SMCP                              62.7                                        41.6                 38.2    26.9    91.3   109.6    ma.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.

SOMELEG                                                                                                                                                               4     35.6   n.a.
                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SNDE                                                                                                                                                                         9.7  36.2
MAURIPOST                                                                                                                                                       ;   11.8    13.2   n.a.
MAURITEL                                                                                                                                                        ;   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.

TotalI t                          410.0                               389.0                        436.6 1,342.8 1,314.6  650.6 3,118.6 3,456.4 4,646.4  4,476.9 4,947.7 4,355.2  36.2

Total 11 I
        -                          24.3                           -161.0                           254.0  946.9  1,014.3  399.0 2,788.5 3,177.7 2,888.7  4,162.1 4,087.4 3,905.7  36.2

Subsidiesto 6 PEs                 385.7                                550.0                       182.6  395.9   300.3   251.6  330.1    278.7 1,757.7   314.8    860.3   449.5   0.0
Taxes from6 PEs                   410.0                                389.0                       436.6  995.7   339.0   346.7   279.2   297.9    727.5   409.4   244.8   175.1   n.a.
Taxes Sub. For 6 PEs
      -                            24.3                           -161.0                           254.0   199.8   38.7    99.1   -50.9    19.2 -1,030.2    94.6 -615.5  -274.4    n.a.    iz
Source: Ministry ofFinance, DTPE.                                                                                                                                                          E
Shaded areas indicate years the company did not exist.                                                                                                                                     CD

                                                                                                                                                                                           U


                                               37                                        Annex E


Basic Data Sheet

PUBLIC ENTERPRISE ECHNICAL ASSISTANCEAND REHABILITATION
                          T
PROJECT (CREDIT 1567-MAU)

Key Project Data (amountsin US$million)
                                  Appraisal              Actual or             Actual as !% of
                                   estimate          current estimate         appraisal estimate
 Total project costs                  29.2                                               --
                                                               c-
 Loan amount                           16.4                  19.9                    121%
 Cofinancing                            3.9                   3.9                    100%
 Other external sources                 5.3                   5.3                    100%
 Cancellation                             --                  1.4                        --
 Economicrate of return               44%                      --                        --


CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                       -
                                                                ~




                                FY86      FY87     FY88       FY89        FY90     FY9I      FY92

Appraisal estimate (US$M)         2.6        6.7     11.8       15.5       16.4     16.4       16.4

Actual (US$M)-"I                  1.6        7.7     14.3       17.0       18.5     19.4       19.9

Actual as %of appraisal         62%       115%     121%       110%        113%     118%      121%

Dateof final disbursement: July 14,1994

aThe disbursedamount differs fromthe originalamount of the credit in termsof US$ because of changes
in theUS$/SDRexchangerates.



Project Dates
                                            Original                           Actual
 Appraisal                                     10183                           10117/83
 Negotiations                                   1984                          02119185
 Board approval                                 1985                          03126/85
 Signing                                        1985                          05/31I85
 Effectiveness                               9/27/85                          03128186
 Closing date                               12131190                           12131I92

Annex E (continued)                            38


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                                              Total
 Lending (general)                                                           57.75
 Preappraisal                                                                24.63
 Appraisal                                                                   58.88
 Negotiations                                                                 18.68
 Supervision                                                                 156.03
 Other                                                                        6.85
 Total                                                                       322.82



Mission Data
                            Dare     No. of Staff days   Specializations     Performance Rating
                         (montWyear) persons infield      represented          rating    trend

IdentificatiodPreparation  04/83      n.a.    n.a              --                 --       --

Appraisal                  10/83      n.a.    n.a.             --                 -        --
SPN I                      12/86      n.a.    n.a.             --                 2        --
SPN I1                     07/88      n.a.    n.a.             --                 1        --

SPN 111                     7/89        2     n.a.    PSM & Water Specialists     1

SPN IV                      6/90        2     n.a.    PSM & Water Specialists     2        --
SPN V                      12/90        2     n.a.      Sr. Sanitary Eng.         1
SPN V1                      7191      n.a.    n.a.             --                 1

SPN VII                     1/93        1     n.a.       P.E. Specialist          1

SPN VIII                   06/93        1     n.a.       P.E. Specialist          1

Completion                 11/93        1     n.a.       P.E. Specialist          1




 OtherProject Data
 Borrower/Executing Agency: Government ofthe Republic ofMauritaniaklinistryofPlanning,
 SONELEC, EMN, OPT

 FOLLOW-ON OPERQ O N S   ~

                      Operation                    Creditno.     (US$million)
                                                                     Amount         Board date

 Public Enterprise SectorAdjustment                   2166             40.0          06/26/90
 Public Enterprise SectorInstitutionalDevt.           2167             10.0          06/26/90
 Private SectorDevelopment Program                    2726             30.0          05/23/95

                                            39                              Annex E (continued)


Basic Data Sheet


PUBLICENTERPRISESECTORADJUSTMENTPROGRAM
(CREDIT2166-MAU)

Key ProjectData (amountsin US$million)
                                  Appraisal          Actual or current          Actual as %ef
                                   estimate                estimate           appraisal estimate
 Totalproject costs                  149.0                  144.8                     97%
 Loan amount                          40.0                    53.2'                  133%
 Cofinancing                         109.0                    91.6                    84%
 Cancellation                            --                        --                      --
 Economicrate of return                n.a.                     n.a.                    n.a.
aIncludes $10million IDA reflows.



CumulativeEstimated andActual Disbursements

                                       FY90        FY91          FY92         FY93         FY94

Appraisal estimate(US$M)                 18.0        30.0           40.0        40.0         40.0

Actual (US$M)-"I                         19.2         19.2          19.3        32.0         42.8

Actual as %of appraisal                 107%         64%            48%         80%        107%

Date of final disbursement: July 18, 1994

aThe disbursedamount diffm fromthe originalamount of the credit in terms of US$ because of changes
in the US$/SDR exchangerates.



ProjectDates
                                              Original                          Actual
 Appraisal                                        01190                            01/90
 Negotiations                                     05/90                        05/25/90
 Letters of Development Policy                    05/90                        05/25/90
 Board approval                                   06/90                        06/26/90
 Signing                                          06/90                        07118/90
 Effectiveness                                    07/90                        08/29/90
 First trancherelease                             07/90                         09/30/90
 Secondtrancherelease                             07191                         03131/93
 Third tranche release                            07/92                        03131194
 Closingdate                                  12131/92                          12131194

    Annex E (continued)                                         40


     StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                                                               Total
       Lending(general)                                                                          0.05
       Preappraisal                                                                           110.35
       Appraisal                                                                               41.05
       Negotiations                                                                              6.80
       Supervision                                                                             96.00
       Other                                                                                     3.03
       Total                                                                                 257.28


     Mission Data

Throughappralsal      06/88   5    4   Economist,Energy,Mining, consultants      -   --   Credit 1567-MAUandpreliminary
                                       (2)                                                Lscussions on PESAP operation.

                      10/88  6    21   Economists (2). Petroleum,Mining,         -    --  PE seetorassessment andpnpaxation
                                       Transport,Consultant                               of lendingoperation

                      11/88   5    I 1 Economists(2). Sanitaryengineer,              --   Electricityand water utility
                                       Financialanalyst,Consultant                        rehabilitahon.

                      06/89   5  26    Economist, Financial analyst,Mining,      -   -    PESAPappraisal
                                       c0nSu)tants(2)

                      01/90  7    22   Economists(2). Lawyer, Mining, Energy,    -   -    PESAPappraisal
                                       Financial analyst, Socialasuects
Appraisalto Board      --
Boardto Effectiveness  -
SPNI                  10/90   8   17   TaskManager, PE specialist,Energy,        -    -   Overallimplementationreview, social
                                       Mining, Fisheries,Lawyer, Airline, Job             aspects,SNIM restruetwing,
                                       redeployment                                       cofinancingtssues

SPN11                 09/91  3   39    TaskManager, Mining,Telecom               1    2   Impkmntation delays

SPN111                10/92   2  21    Task Manager, Mining                      1    I   Implementahonreview

SPN N                 10/93  4    10   TaskManager, PE Specialist,Telecom,       1    1   Implementation review, OPT
                                       Mining                                             performance a p m e n t

SPN V                 02/94   1   22   TaskManager                               HS  HS   Implementation review

Completion            09/94  2    14   Economist,Consultant                      1     I  ICRpreparation




       Other ProjectData


       FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS

                            Operation                                      Credit
                                                                            no.    (US$million)
                                                                                    Amount               Board date

       Public Enterprise SectorInstitutionalDevt.                          2167         10.0              06/26/90
       Private SectorDevelopment Program                                   2726         30.0              05/23/95

                                               41                          Annex E (continued)


Basic Data Sheet


PUBLICENTERPRISESECTORINSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENTAND
TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT(CREDIT2167-MAU)

Key Project Data (amountsin US$million)
                                     Appraisal             Actual or           Actual as %of
                                      estimate         current estimate appraisal estimate
 Totalproject costs                      10.5                  10.5                100%
 Loan amount                             10.0                  10.0                100%
 Cofinancing                              0.5                    0.5               100%
 Cancellation                               --                    --                   --
 Economicrate of return                   n.a.                  n.a.                 n.a.




Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                              FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94       FY95     FY96     FY97

Appraisal estimate               1.o       2.5       4.5         6.0       7.5      9.0    10.0
WS$M)
Actual (US$M)"                   2.0         4.1     6.6         8.3       9.3     10.2    10.7

Actualas%ofappraisal           200% 164%          147%       138%       124%     114%     107%


aThe disbursed amountdiffers fromthe originalamountof the credit interms ofUS$ becauseofchanges
inthe US$/SDRexchange rates.




ProjectDates
                                            Original                          Actual
 Appraisal                                         --                           01190
 Negotiations                                  05/90                         05/25/90
 Board approval                                06/90                         06/26/90
 Signing                                       06/90                         07118/90
 Effectiveness                                 07/90                         08/29/90
 Closing date                               06/30/98                         06/30/98

       Annex E (continued)                                               42


        StaffInputs (staffweeks)
                                                                                                              Total
          Lending (general)                                                                                      3.2
          Preappraisal                                                                                        32.53
          Appraisal                                                                                            1.68
          Negotiations                                                                                         1.28
           Supervision                                                                                        49.70
          Other                                                                                                  0.0
          Total                                                                                               88.39


       Mission Data
                      Date   Naof Swdays
                     (rn0ar.Jpersons irrficld         sprdnlicpiionsrepresented                                  Typesofproblems
                                                                                         rm.nt trend
                                                                                              R'm'

Throughappraisal      06/88     5       4    Economist,Energy, Mining, consultants(2)     -      -- Credit 1567-MAUandprelimnary discussions
                                                                                                    of PESIDTA.

                      10188     6      21    Economists(2). PetroleumMining, Transport,   -      -  PE sectorassessmentandpreparahonof
                                             Consultant                                             lendingoperation

                      11/88     5       11   Economists(2). Sanitaryengneer, Financial    -      -_ Electricityand water utilityrehabilitation
                                             analyst,Consultant

                      06/89     5      26    Economist,Financialanalyst,Mining,           -      -  PESMeESIDTA appraisal
                                             Consultants(2)

                      01/90     7      22    Economists(2). Lawyer, Mining, Energy,       -      -  PESAFVPESIDTAappraisal
                                             Financialanalyst, Socialaspects

Appraisal to Board
Board toEffectiveness  -
SEW I                 10/90     8       17   TaskManager, PE~ i a l i s tEnergy, Mimng,
                                                                          ,               --     -- Overallimplementationreview, socialaspccts,
                                             Faheries, Lawyer. Airline, Job redeployment            SNIM restructuring,cofimncing issues

SPNI1                 09/91     3      39    TaskManager, Mining, Telecom                 1      2  Implementationdelays

SPN111                10192     2      21    Task Manager, Mining                          1     1  Implementationreview

SPNIV                 10/93     4       10   Task Manager,PE Specialist,Telecom Mining    1      1  Implementationreview. OPT performance
                                                                                                    agreement

SPNV                  02/94     1      22    TaskManam                                    HS    HS lmpkmentationreview

SPN VI                07/95     2      n.a.  Economist Consultant                         HS    HS                        -
SPN VII               03/96     2      n.a   Economist,FinancialAnalyst                   HS    HS
                                                                                                                          I




           Other Project-Data
           BorrowerExecutingAgency: Governmentofthe Republic of Mauritaniahlinistriesof Planning, Finance
           and Commerce;Directoratesof Energy, Mines and Geology;public enterprises

          FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS

                               Operation                                    Credit           Amount                 Board date
                                                                               no.        (US$million)
           Private SectorDevelopmentProgram                                  2726             30.0                     05/23/95

           Private SectorDevelopmentCapacity                                 2730                7.2                   05/23/95
           BuildingProject

                                             43                                   Annex F


                           CommentsReceived from the Government




Republique tslamique de Mauritanie
        hvnceuf F:J'=.O~I~Juabe
                        -
                                                                            +L&yi 2 3 4 1~ j,\
Ministere des Affaires Economiqucbs                                                         j

       et du Diveloppement                                                         -1   J




                                      A Monsieur R. Kyle Peters.
                                      Chef Evaluation-pays et relationsrtgionales,
                                      Dkpartement deI'evaluation dtrospective
                                                       des ophtions,
                                                         -Washington,D.C.-

      Obiet: Rapportde d6valuation retrospectivedu Programme
               d' Ajusvent du SecteurdesEntreprisesPubliques(PASEP)

             Cher Monsieur R.Kyle Peters,

             J'accuse rheption de votre courrier en date du 06 avril 2004 par lequel vous
      avez bien voulu mus soumettre, pour avis, le projet de rapport de r&vaIuation
      ritrospective du Programme d'ajustement du secteur des entreprises publiques
      (PASEP) etje vous en remercie.

             Comme le note le rapport, les orientationsde politique tcanomique formulh a
      l'occasion de la mise en auwe du PASEP et qui visaient le dksengagement de 1'Etat
      des activitcs industrielles et commerciales, le n5tablissement des forces du march4 et
      I'instauration de mkanismes conmentiels au sein de I'ckonomie nittionale ont &ti
      maintenus et poursuivisau-delade la periode couverte par le PASEP.

             Cettc volontk politique. gage majeur de la durabilit6 des rksultats, se muve &
      I'origine du succis des diffkentes dformesmenCes par la suite come en attestentles
      rkultats impressionnants obtenus dans te cadre du programme de rdforme du sectmr
      PanyWMic engage en 1998 et p&culi&mcnt                   la Ftforme du w e u r des
      ~l~communications ccmstme aujdhui uoCBSdetc&cnce en Afiique.
                              @      '

Annex F (continued)                          44




         Au-delh de la viabilitti du PASEP. son impact sur le dtiveloppemcnt
 institutionnel rst plus important que ne le fait ressortir te rapport si l'on tient compte
 des performances internes des entreprises en matiere de mise en place de systhes
 comptables. d'elaboration des procedures, d'orpnisation, d'informatisation, de
 .pition comrnercialc.etc.

        Idesd6partcmcnts ininist6rielsen charge du suivi du sccteur parapublic ont aussi
 VII Icurs compktonccs renforckes et leurs methodus de travail aniClictrOes grice zi
 I'orpanisation dc sessions dt: formstion. au renforcement de leurs nioycns. a la inise en
 place de hascs de donnkes sur le secteur dcs entreprisrs publiques. etc. Cenes, le
 volume d*acti\jit& actiiel ne rcyuiert plus le mOms personnel recrutk prdcldeinment
 Ctant donne la reduction de la taille du secteur et I'achtvemznt ou prrsque des
 ditTirentes reformes. cc qui ajustitit? la reorganisation dcs serviccs en question.

        Espi-rant que ces Climents contribueront a enrichir le rapport et permettre de
 mitrus apprkcier les resultats du PASEP.je vous prie de croire. Cher Monsieur K.Kyle
 Peters. 4 I'assurance de ma hautc considtration.
                                                           r




 Ampliations :
    -    Monsieur Paulo Goines, Adniinistratcur pour la Ripubliquc Islaniique de

     -   Mauritanie ;
         Monsieur Ajay Chibber. Directeur. DCpartemcnt de I'evaluation rCtrospectivc

     -   dcs operations ;
         Monsieur David Graig. Dirtxteur des optrations pour la Rgpublique Islamique
         de Mailriranic.

                                             45                      Annex F (continued)


                        Comments Received from the Government
                                   Pnglish Translation)

IslamicRepublic of Mauritania

Ministry of EconomicAffairs and Development


No. 000567h4AEDIMICCPSI                                           Nouakchott, May 5,2004

From the Minister



To:     Mr. R. Kyle Peters,
        SeniorManager, CountryEvaluationand Regional Relations
        OperationsEvaluation Department,
        Washington,D.C.

Re:     Public Enterprise SectorAdjustment Program (PESAP)re-assessmentreport



Dear Mr. Peters,

        I received your letterof April 6,2004 in which you kindly submittedfor our
views the draft re-assessment report of the Public EnterpriseSectorAdjustmentProgram
(PESAP) and I want to expressmy appreciation.

        As the report points out, the economic policy directions formulated for PESAP
implementation,focusingon governmentdivestiture of industrialand commercial
activities,the restoration of market forcesand development of competitivemechanisms
within the national economy,have been maintained and pursued beyond the period
covered by the PESAP.

        Thispolitical commitment, a key element of the sustainabilityof the outcome,
underliesthe successof the various reformsundertaken subsequently,asreflectedin the
impressiveresults obtainedunder the parapublic sectorreform program initiated in 1998
and, in particular, the telecommunicationssectorreform which now serves as a model for
Africa.

        Beyond the viabilityofthe PESAP, its impact on institutional development is
greaterthan the report indicates if we take into account the internalperformanceof
enterprisesin matters such as settingup accounting systems, developingprocedures,
organization,computerization and business management.

Annex F (continued)                         46


       The ministry departmentsresponsible formonitoringtheparapublic sector have
also had their skillsupgraded and their work methods improvedas a result of training
sessions, expandedresources, the developmentof data bases on the public enterprise
sector and so forth. Of coursethe currentvolume of activityno lo       r requires the same
staffrecruited earlier,giventhe reduction in the size of the sector andthe completionor
near-completion of the variousreforms,whichjustified the reorganization of the
departmentsinvolved.

       I hope that these remarks will help enrich the report and contributeto a fuller
assessmentof the PESAP outcome.




                                    Sincerelyyours,

                                        [signature]

                      Abdallah Ould SouleymaneOuld Cheikh-Sidia



-
cc:
   -   Mr. Paul0 Gomes, ExecutiveDirector for the IslamicRepublic of Mauritania;
    -  Mr. Ajay Chibber, Director, OperationsEvaluation Department;
   -   Mr. David Graig, OperationsDirector for the IslamicRepublic of Mauritania.



