Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2166 MAU
                                                (Second Amendment)
                     Second Agreement Amending
                   Development Credit Agreement
           (Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 18, 1992
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2166 MAU
                                                (Second Amendment)
                     SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1992, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit), dated July 18, 1990, (the Development Credit
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
further agreement, dated November 20, 1990 (the First Amending
Agreement), whereby the Association has agreed to increase the
financing made available under the Development Credit Agreement by
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000);
Page  2
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement and the First Amending Agreement by an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by deleting Subsection (n) thereof and substituting
therefor the following Subsections (n) and (o):
            "(n) 'First Amending Agreement' means the First Agree-
      ment Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Public
      Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and
      the Association, dated July 18, 1990; and
            "(o) 'Second Amending Agreement' means the Second
      Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Public
      Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and
      the Association, dated July 18, 1990."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
      Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
      in the Development Credit Agreement: (i) an amount in various
      currencies equivalent to thirty million seven hundred thousand
      Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,700,000); (ii) an additional
      amount in various currencies equivalent to two million nine
      hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000) (the
      First Additional Financing); and (iii) a further additional
      amount in various currencies equivalent to one million nine
      hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000) (the
      Second Additional Financing).
      Section 1.03. The proviso at the end of Section 2.04 (a) of
the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
            "; provided, however, that commitment charges on the
      First Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days
      after the date of the First Amending Agreement, and commitment
      charges on the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from
      a date sixty days after the date of the Second Amending
      Agreement."
      Section 1.04. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by adding a new paragraph 6 as follows:
            "6.  After a date twelve months from the date of the
      Second Amending Agreement, no commitment shall be entered into
      to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of
      expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second
      Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the
      Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount
      of the Second Additional Financing unwithdrawn from the Credit
      Account or any part thereof."
      Section 1.05. No withdrawal of the Second Additional financ-
ing, or any part thereof, shall be made unless the Borrower has
Page  3
fulfilled all the conditions for second tranche release, specified
in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches
to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have
come into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Second Amending Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect, as if this Second Amending
Agreement had not been executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Second Amending
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the date and year first
above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                  By /s/ Mohamed Fall Ainina
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Olivier Lafaourcade
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
