Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    F
Report No. 4 7 6 3 --NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 9, 1984
Power and Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit    = Nepalese Rupee (NR)
US$1.00           = NR 15.8 (May 1984)
NR 1.00           = US$0.063
NR 1 million      = US$63,290
* The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this report is as
above.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                2,204.6 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                         2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    =  Asian Development Bank
ADT    =  Average Daily Traffic
CEDA   =  Center for Economic Development and Administration
CIDA   =  Canadian International Development Association
DOR    =  Department of Roads
ERR    =  Economic Rate of Return
FCC    =  Finance Comptroller-General
GDP    =  Gross Domestic Product
HMG    =  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ILO    =  International Labor Organization
IR     =  Indian Railways
MWT    =  Ministry of Works and Transport
NTC    =  Nepal Transport Corporation
ODA    =  Overseas Development Administration (Great Britain)
PIU    =  Project Implementation Unit
RNAC   =  Royal Nepalese Airlines Corporation
SFD    =  Saudi Fund for Development
UNDP   =  United Nations Development Program
USAID  =  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL FISCAL YEAR
Mid-July to mid-July



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM ......................... .1
A. General .....   1
B. The Transport System   ..                    .                     2
Hill Trails ...........                                       3
Civil Aviation .                     .                       4
Railroads ................                                   4
Ropeways ........ ..........   5
Waterways and Maritime Transport ...............              6
C.  Transport Coordination ............................               6
D.  Organisation and Regulation .......................               6
E.  Previous Transport Sector Operations .              .             7
II.    THE HIGHWAY SECTOR .......................... . .  ......   .     8
A. The Network .           .............  .       .                   8
B. Traffic ..........                                   ....  8
C.  Administration ......... .................... . ..                9
D.  Training ..................................                       9
E. Planning                     .. ..........  10
F. Financing                    .. ..........  10
G.  Engineering .......                               .........    11
H. Construction                 . . .11
I. Maintenance ...                                                   12
III.   THE PROJECT .......................................    14
A.  Objectives               ..................    14
B.  Description         ......                                       14
East-West Highway Construction .................    14
Feeder Road Construction .16
Rehabilitation/Improvement of the
Kathmandu-Birgunj Road ........        ..............    16
Procurement of Equipment .......................    17
Technical Assistance and Training ..............    18
C.  Engineering      .  ................ 5 ......................    18
East-West Highway ......                                    18
Highway Rehabilitation .19
This report has been prepared by Mrs. Inai Bradfield (Economist) and
Mr. Robert Mulligan (Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
D.  Cost Estimates ....................................    19
E.  Financing .........................................    20
F.  Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting ......              23
Land Acquisition ...............................    23
C.  Procurement and Disbursement  ......................    24
Procurement ....................................    24
Disbursement ...................................    25
H.  Accounting and Auditing ...........................    26
I.  Environmental Impact ..............................    27
IV.     ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...............................             28
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS .35
TABLES
1.  The National Highway Network and Estimated Growth ...              36
2.  Registered Motor Vehicles ........... ..          ..............    37
3.  Investment Plan Comparisons .......... ..          .............    38
4.  Highway Expenditures            ..................    39
5.  Road Transport Revenue .............       ..    ...............    40
6.  Selected Design Standards ........... ..          ..............    41
7.  Detailed Cost Table ..............      ..     .................    42
8. Estimated Costs and Benefits for
Major Agricultural Schemes .......................    43
9.  Summary of Costs and Benefits ......... ..           ............    44
10. Summary of Results of the Economic Analysis
of Bridge Replacement Proposals ......... .........    45
11.  Summary of Sensitivity Analyses ........ ..           ...........    46
12. Summary of Economic & Sensitivity Analyses
(Hetauda-Raxaul Road) ............ ..         ..............    47
13. Summary of Reported Road Accidents
(Naubise-Mugling Road) ........... ..         ...............   48
14. Summary of Economic Analyses (Naubise-Mugling Road)                 49
15. Summary of Sensitivity Analyses
(Naubise-Mugling Road) ............ ..         ..............    50



-iii-
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Road Maintenance Equipment to be Procured ........ ...    51
2.  Synopsis of Proposed Staff Training ..............    ...    52
3. Composition of MRM Kohalpur Mahakali Construction
Development Board (1983) .....      ....................    53
4.  Project Implementation Schedule ..................    ...    54
5.  Land Acquisition Act 2034 (Extracts) .............    ...    55
6.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements ...............    ..    57
7. Conservation Measures to be Enforced During and
After Construction of Road Through Karnali
Wildlife Reserve ......       ...........................    58
8.  Assumptions for Agricultural Benefit .............    ...    59
9. Development Project Benefits in the
Road Influence Areas .....       ........................    64
10.  Figures 1, 2, and 3 ......       ...........................    71
11.  Economic Analysis: Other Quantifiable Benefits ......        74
12.  Economic Analysis of Bridge Replacement ..........    ...    79
13.  Project File ........      ................................    85
CHARTS
World Bank Chart No. 25147                                         86
MAPS
World Bank Map No. 17132 R






NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:               SDR 44.7 million (US$47.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project               The project would provide a means to integrate the far
Description:        western part of Nepal with the rest of the country
through completion of an all-weather East-West Highway;
to improve traffic conditions between Kathmandu and
Birganj at the Indian border through selective
rehabilitation of bridges and road pavements; and to
strengthen the construction and maintenance capability
of the Borrower. It would construct about 204 km of
the East-West Highway including a bridge over Karnali
(Chisapani) River and feeder roads, rehabilitate about
82 km of the Mugling-Naubise road, provide maintenance
equipment, technical assistance and training. The major
project benefits would be (a) the integration of the
far western part of Nepal with the country's economy;
(b) increased realization of benefits from investments
in agricultural production in the western region; and
(c) reduced cost of road maintenance and operation of
vehicles through road rehabilitation on the major road
link with India. Risks related to construction delays
would be minimized through provision for construction
supervision during all stages.
Estimated Cost: a/           Item                            US$ Millions
Foreign   Local   Total
East-West Highway                  42.6    15.3      57.9
Road Rehabilitation                10.7     3.8      14.4
Institution Building
and Road Maintenance              4.8      -        4.8
TOTAL BASE COST                    58.0    19.1      77.1
Physical Contingencies              5.9     2.1       8.0
Price Contingencies                23.0     7.9      30.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 86.9    29.1    116.0
a/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$13.1 million equivalent.



Financing Plan:                                               US$ Millions
Foreign   Local   Total
IDA                               45.3       2.2    47.5
Saudi Fund for Development         27.1      3.7    30.8
ODA (UK)                           14.5      5.2    19.7
HMG                                -        18.0    18.0
86.9     29.1   116.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US$ Millions
IDA FY             1985    1986       1987    1988    1989
Annual             3.98      7.38    13.14   13.35    9.65
Cummulative        3.98    11.36    24.50   37.85   47.50
Rate of Return:        16 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 4763-NEP, dated August 9, 1984
Ma p:                  IBRD 17132 R



NEPAL
I. THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A. General
1.01      Nepal is bordered by China (Tibet) to the north, and India, her
main trading partner, to the east, south and west. The country's land area
of 141,000 km2 is divided into three distinct physical regions which run in
almost parallel bands from east to west across the country: (i) the
relatively fertile Terai plains (23%) in the south, which has traditionally
produced an agricultural surplus; (ii) the Hills (61%) including the
important Kathmandu Valley in the center and (iii) the Himalayas (16%), the
world's highest mountains, in the north. The central and northern regions
are dissected by deep valleys running generally from north to south.
1.02      For more than a century prior to 1951, Nepal maintained a policy of
isolation from the rest of the world. Partly as a result of this policy, but
mainly because of the formidable difficulties of internal communications, the
country is still in the early stages of economic development. There is
little interdependence between the economies of the scattered valleys; the
country produces few exportable commodities, and no significant exploitable
natural resources other than hydroelectric power potential have been
discovered. Such physical characteristics combined with the high costs of
transport resulting from its mountainous terrain, have limited Nepal's
opportunities to participate in the international economy.
1.03      Over the past ten years, GDP growth has hardly exceeded the 2.2%
growth rate of the population. Per capita income is about US$157 (1982/83
prices), which is among the lowest in the world. The growth of the
agriculture sector has been disappointing. What growth there has been in
agricultural production (hardly above the rate of population increase) has
primarily resulted from area expansion, the opportunities for which are now
progressively decreasing.
1.04      The population of Nepal is now estimated at about 15.8 million
(1982/83) and is increasing at a rate of about 2.6% per year. With an
average of more than 90 persons per square kilometer, 1/ Nepal is one of the
most densely populated mountainous countries in the world. About 34% of the
population lives in the Terai region, while 58% live in the Hills and 8% in
the Himalayas regions. About 95% of Nepal's population live in rural areas
and for nearly all of them agriculture is the main source of livelihood.
1.05      The major development objectives of the Government are to raise the
level of agricultural production, to increase employment opportunities for
1/ In the hills, the population is 1,500/km2 of arable land.



-2-
the rural poor, to accelerate the country's export earnings, and reduce
population growth. There is an urgent need to increase production of food
grains to feed the growing population. Because of their isolation, the hills
and mountain areas present particular difficulties in the achievement of such
objectives. The scope for agricultural development is more favorable in the
Terai, where there is still a potential for irrigation and where farm-holding
sizes are large enough to enable a marketable surplus to be grown.
Transporting surplus food to deficit areas in the hills and mountains,
however, remains a serious problem. In the Far West of the country the
planned development objectives are being frustrated by the lack of an
all-weather route, and the area's integration with the rest of Nepal is not
being realized. HMG therefore views the completion of the East-West Highway
as the highest priority transport project in the area where planned
development is being foregone through lack of permanent access. The present
project addresses this major transport shortcoming.
B. The Transport System
1.06      Historically, transport in Nepal has been by porters and, to a
lesser extent, by pack animals. These means of transportation are still of
great importance, especially, in the hills of central Nepal where the
majority of the population lives. With the Government's relatively recent
emphasis on infrastructure, it is only since the 1950's that the road network
has begun to develop in the Terai to provide an east-west connection, and in
the Kathmandu area to provide access to the Indian border in the south and to
the Chinese border in the north. To complement this developing network, a
number of airports and short take-off and landing (STOL) fields have been
built in various parts of the country. Other transport modes such as
railroads, ropeways and waterways play only a minor role within Nepal's
transport system (Map 17132 R).
1.07      Nepal's daunting topography and climate are the major impediments
to inexpensive and reliable transport; they create a set of adverse
conditions that are unequalled in the world.  As if the terrain were not
obstacle enough, the many streams and rivers are seasonally swollen by the
monsoon rains and make conditions for transport even more difficult, and
conditions for road construction and maintenance exceptionally trying.
Moreover, external trade is difficult and expensive. Nepal's dependence on
routes through India entails lengthy delays and high costs for goods in
transit. For example, the nearest ocean port, Calcutta, is over 1,000 km
from Kathmandu. The movement of import/exports by land via Raxaul (Birganj)
can entail several transhipments with the consequent high risk of loss and
damage because of the frequent handlings. Clearance procedures are
cumbersome and slow entailing laborious documentation. In an effort to
improve the situation, HMG has had studies made by UNCTAD and ESCAP under
UNDP financing. Principal recommendatibns fall under two broad headings: (i)
capital works such as replacement of unsafe bridges on the Birganj/Kathmandu
corridor (provided for in this proposed project), improved and expanded
storage facilities at Tribhuvan airport (Kathmandu), Birganj and Calcutta,
intermodal containers together with chassis and tractor vehicles, additional



-3-.
wagons on the Indian Railways, and (ii) administrative and institutional
improvements such as the streamlining of border formalities and customs
procedures and better management and maintenance of existing facilities. It
would appear that the greatest potential benefits may be realized from the
containerization of Nepalese goods in transit, A recent IDA mission to Nepal
prepared for HMG's comments the draft terms of reference for a study which
would evaluate the benefits of intermodal container operations and determine
the cost of an economically viable system, including the needed equipment,
infrastructure and institutional improvements. Such a study, financed partly
by UNDP and partly from an IDA Technical Assistance credit, would form the
first in a series of investments to be undertaken subsequently to reduce
Nepal's transit costs, and could provide the basis of a project suitable for
international financing.
1.08      In the past, transport demand has been local in nature, limited
mainly to commerce between adjacent villages and rural areas in the hill
terrain.  However, increased settlement of the Terai region assisted by the
eradication of malaria has helped promote expanded trade with India, and
transport demand has oriented in a predominantly north/south direction.
Exports to India, mainly rice, cross the border at many points, but most
imports (largely manufactured goods) from India and other countries enter
Nepal through the border at Raxaul/Birganj and increasing trade is destined
for Kathmandu. More recently, as a result of HMG's emphasis on integration
of the country and the consequent development of the East-West Highway
system, transport demand is starting to develop laterally along the Terai.
Hill Trails
1.09      Although it is difficult to estimate the total length of the hill
trails, they are assumed to be about 15,000 to 20,000 km. These trails not
only serve to link many villages but also play a vital role in unifying the
country as there is often no other means of access. During the monsoon
flooding of the numerous rivers which dissect the mountains, swift currents
make their crossings difficult or impossible, so that many villages are
isolated for several months of the year.
1.10      The Government has been anxious to make the movement of people and
goods easier in the hills and, to achieve this objective, has been taking a
number of measures, including construction of porter trail suspension bridges
(five of which were financed under the First Highway Project,
Credit 223-NEP). To further assist the suspension bridge program, German
Consult (Germany) carried out a UNDP financed, Bank-executed study of 66
proposed sites. The Swiss Government and USAID have also played an active
role in supporting Government efforts to improve road access. USAID is now
financing the construction of those suspension bridges found feasible in the
UNDP-financed study. The Government is also receiving assistance from the
World Food Program to upgrade four major north-south trails for use by mules,
one of which will also be useable by jeeps. IDA is similarly assisting the



-4-
Government in improving trails in the Far Western Region under the Second
Rural Development Project (Credit 939-NEP).
Civil Aviation
1.11      To provide access to remote and otherwise inaccessible parts of the
country, Government has given a high priority to communications by air.
Adequate air transpert is not only a convenient, if high cost, means of
integrating the courtry, but is also essential if tourism is to develop.
Commercial air transport began in 1950 with services by Indian Airlines
between Kathmandu and Patna. India. In 1955 the first domestic airline
company was formed and now the Government-owned Royal Nepalese Airlines
Corporation (RNAC), serves eight international airports (Bangkok, Calcutta,
Colombo, Delhi, Dhaka, Hong Kong, Patna, Rangoon) and 25 domestic air fields
by scheduled services and an additional eight landing strips by charter
flights.
1.12      Despite past domestiC traffic growth, the potential of civil
aviation for integrating the country by linking remote and otherwise
inaccessible areas has not been fully realized. STOL aircraft could be used
more extensively to provide social services in areas difficult of access by
surface transport. However, many factors, including shortages of equipment
and spare parts, poor navigational and landing facilities and the monsoon
rains, have had the combined effect of closing more than half the domestic
airports during the monsoon season (June-October) and contributing to
unreliable services all year round.
1.13      Even at its main base in Kathmandu, RNAC's facilities are sadly
deficient, adversely affecting the airline's passenger operations, with
potentially serious consequences for the growth of the tourist trade.
Improvements in physical facilities, however, need to be matched by
corresponding increases in operational efficiency. As the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980/81-1985/86) acknowledges, RNAC could benefit from experienced
management assistance to: (i) undertake forward planning; (ii) set targets
for production, investment and employment; (iii) establish indicators by
which its performance could be measured; and (iv) better maintain its
physical assets. A basic tool in improving management and efficiency must be
the systematic collection of statistical data on operations.
Railroads
1.14      There are three short, separate, narrow gauge railroad lines in
Nepal: the Janakpur line (53 km), built in 1927; the Nepal Railroad line (8
km); and the Kosi line (35 km).  The Janakpur line, which is an extension of
the Indian Railways (IR) network from Janakpur, principally caters to a
growing number of pilgrims (1.5 million in 1982) from India who visit the
shrines in Janakpur, to which there is no alternative land transport, but
also meets a significant local demand. The Nepal line, which no longer
operates, is also an extension of the IR, extending from Raxaul to Birganj,
built mainly to transport bulk cargoes. Because of the long delays at Indian



-5-
and Nepalese customs checkpoints, railroad trans-shipment costs are often
said to be higher than comparable trucking costs. The Kosi line, originally
built to transport construction materials to the Kosi River Barrage, now
operates only seasonally to transport materials for its maintenance.
1.15     The Janakpur line is operated by the Nepal Transport Corporation
(NTC). It has been able to cover operating expenses, but not enough to cover
depreciation or replacement of capital. At present, consideration is being
given to the purchase of some secondhand equipment for the Janakpur line and
the conversion of the Nepal Railroad line to meter gauge to avoid the
cumbersome trans-shipment of international goods at Raxaul in India. The
Government is also considering extending the Janakpur line by 14 km
(Bizalpura-Sarlahi) to connect with the East-West Highway.
1.16      Proposals for the development of various rail lines 1/ have been
advanced from time to time. In general they stem from the Government's
desire to promote electric traction (railways, ropeways and trolley buses) to
utilize the country's great hydro-electric potential, helping to conserve the
scarce foreign exchange now expended on importing costly petroleum, about
three-quarters of which is consumed by road transport. There is certainly
some merit in this argument, given the steep gradients and tortuous
alignments that characterize, for example, the Rajpath between Kathmandu and
Birganj entailing high vehicle operating costs and high fuel consumption.
However, the energy factor, despite its importance, is only one of many
(e.g., total costs, including sidings, management, operational efficiency,
volume of traffic) that must be carefully analyzed before railroad
investments are made. Moreover, the viability of using alternative transport
modes should also be considered, since it is doubtful that there would be
sufficient traffic to justify the construction of new rail lines in the near
future. Studies conducted by the Bank several years ago found that even the
gauge conversion of the existing line would be uneconomic because of the low
volume of traffic and the high investment costs estimated at that time.
Ropeways
1.17      Apart from porterage, the first ropeway, built in 1928 to serve the
Kathmandu corridor, was for many years the only means of transporting freight
to and from the Kathmandu Valley. The present ropeway between Kathmandu and
Hetauda, which was opened in April 1964, has a length of 42 km and a design
capacity of nearly 22 tons per operating hour. (Practical annual operating
capacity of 70,000 tons has been estimated by NTC). Transport charges on the
ropeway are generally lower than on the competing road system; however, when
1/ Kathmandu-Birganj line; East Terai line linking to the Siwalik Hills and
Mahabharat; West Terai line (paralleling the East-West Highway) and
various north-south lines serving some towns and villages.



-6-
storage, pilferage and trans-shipment costs are taken into account, the
ropeway is competitive only for the transport of large bulk shipments. For
other types of traffic the private sector prefers trucks.
1.18      Until 1981, traffic on the ropeway was declining.  However, in 1981
the ropeway was rehabilitated, and now, under a dynamic new management it is
recapturing an increasing volume of traffic in bulk commodities, at present
about 30,000 - 40,000 tons annually. An UNCTAD/ESCAP project team is at
present studying the feasibility of ropeway operations in other parts of the
country.
Waterways and Maritime Transport
1.19      Because of the nature of Nepal's mountainous topography, the
seasonality of rainfall, fast-flowing rivers with severe draft restrictions,
the use of waterways as a mode of transportation is limited. A few rivers in
the Terai area are navigable by small craft and some movement of grain by
this means takes place to and from India. Also, in central Nepal, rivers are
sometimes used to transport logs from the hills to the Terai region. In
1968, in response to a request for a license to establish a private shipping
company, the Government established the legal and administrative procedures
for maritime shipping. Since then, two private shipping companies have been
established. However, only one ship has been chartered for one journey.
C. Transport Coordination
1.20      All modern modes of transport are regulated and/or operated by the
Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT). Within MWT there is no specific
agency to coordinate the various modes. In the 1970's, some assistance in
transport planning was provided by a transport economist financed by the
UNDP. However, in practice, because of the relative infancy of the transport
system and the dominant position of roads, problems of inter-modal
competition are minimal. Proposed investment plans are reviewed by the
Planning Commission and final approval for implementation is given by the
Ministry of Finance.
D. Organization and Regulation
1.21      There are few restrictions on the licensing of trucks and buses,
and there is an abundance of truck and bus operators plying the
Kathmandu-Birganj route. The Government-owned NTC sets passenger fares which
are periodically reviewed and revised upward, but road freight rates are not
regulated. There are no regulations governing vehicle weights and dimensions
due to the absence of a legal framework. Although vehicle dimensions are not
regulated, the rugged terrain has in the past limited the operation of
vehicles to not much larger than the 5-8 ton nominal capacity trucks. The
recent opening of the Narayangarth-Mugling link, however, has provided a
flatter, though longer, import route from the south to Kathmandu, and vehicle
weights are seen to be increasing. HMG is presently drafting legislaticn
which would limit axle loads and vehicle dimensions and will take into



-7-
account the findings of the ADB study on the Road Transport Industry (para
2.24).
1.22      NTC provides truck services throughout the country in direct
competition with the private sector. Most of NTC traffic is Government cargo
carried between Kathmandu and the major transport crossings from India.
Because of past neglect and inadequate management, NTC's truck operations had
been impaired but under a new dynamic management (para 1.18) efforts are now
being made to effect improvements through a UNDP-financed Road Transport
Development Project. In addition to the Kathmandu-Hetauda Ropeway and the
minor railroads, NTC also operates a trolley bus service in the Kathmandu
Valley. This facility, which was installed by the Republic of China,
commenced operations in 1976 on a 13-km route between Kathmandu and
Bhaktapur, and is popular. Its passenger traffic increased from 1.5 million
in 1975-76 to 3.5 million in 1981-82.
1.23     Over the past two years, NTC's operations have improved (paras 1.18
and 1.22) and its financial losses have been reduced. However, there is room
for further improvement. In order to pinpoint specific problem areas, NTC
has been asked to collect detailed operating statistics in accordance with
the format suggested by an IDA mission. The forthcoming containerization
study scheduled to commence in the fall of 1984 (para 1.07) will examine the
problems of NTC with the objective of defining its role and finding means to
strengthen its staff and improve financial/operational performance.
E. Previous Transport Sector Operations
1.24      The proposed credit would be the third IDA operation for transport
in Nepal, the previous two also being for roads. The first, Credit 223-NEP
(US$2.5 million), effective in February, 1971, financed the replacement of
five narrow, understrength road bridges, the construction of five pedestrian
suspension bridges for porter traffic, a four-year road maintenance program
and consulting services and technical assistance. The project was
satisfactorily completed in June 1977 but not without considerable delays due
to shortages of materials and inefficiencies in administration (Project
Performance Audit Report No. 2016 of April 7, 1978).
1.25      The second, Credit 730-NEP (US$17.0 million), still in progress, is
anticipated to close on December 31, 1984.  It comprises the upgrading of
about 18 km of a mountainous section of the main road from India to
Kathmandu, the construction of about 50 km of feeder roads, the Drocurement
of construction equipment for use by the feeder road contractors, consultancy
services for technical and economic studies of further roads and a training
program for mechanics. The civil works component is virtually completed.
All the equipment has been procured and is in use, and the consultants'
studies have been made, some of which form the basis of the presently
proposed project. The only element which has been temporarily delayed is the
training program for mechanics. This is discussed in para 2.06.



II. The Highway Sector
A. The Network
2.01      The highway network currently totals about 5,546 kilometers, of
which 2,484 km are paved, 830 km are gravel and 2,232 km are unimproved earth
roads (see Table 1). All of the surfaced roads and a large proportion of the
earth roads are the responsibility of the Roads Department (DOR) of the
Ministry of Works and Transport; the remainder are under the jurisdiction of
the panchayats or local governments. The three main national roads are: (i)
the north-south road from the Indian border at Birganj to Kathmandu and then
on to the Chinese (Tibet) border; (ii) the north-south road connecting
Bhairawa near the Indian border with Pokhara which is connected with
Kathmandu to its east; and (iii) the East-West Highway located in the Terai
which, when completed in about 1989, will traverse the entire breadth of the
country (1040 km). A number of local roads in the Terai are not linked to
the basic system. Vast areas of the hills and mountains as well as parts of
the Far Western Terai are not served by roads at all.
2.02      The principal highway connection with India is a paved road
extending from Kathmandu southwards to Birganj near the border and thence
southeastwards along the Gandak and the Ganges Rivers. Other roads extend
into northern India from the Terai cities of Biratnagar and Bhairawa. A road
running northeastward from Kathmandu to the border town of Kodari provided
the only surface link with China before sections of it were washed out during
the 1981 monsoon. The damaged sections of this road are now being repaired
under Chinese supervision and financing.
B. Traffic
2.03      Available vehicle registration statistics in Nepal indicate that
there are at present about 36,000 registered vehicles, with nearly 50Z trucks
and buses (Table 2). However, no information on the numbers of scrapped
vehicles is available, and it is probable that only about two-thirds of those
registered are operating. While the majority of private trucks are owned by
Nepalese, long-distance hauling is generally done by vehicLes from India.
2.04      With the exception of the Kathmandu Valley, roads are not heavily
trafficked. One of the more heavily used is that between Birganj and Hetauda
(north-south), with an Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of about 500, and the
Thankot-Naubise-Kathmandu section, with an ADT of 700; for all other rural
roads traffic figures are low, probably ranging from 100 to 150 ADT. The
volume of traffic on the Birganj - Hetauda - Naubise - Kathmandu route has
grown at an average annual rate of 8% since 1973, the year when the baseline
data were established during the ADB-financed feasibility studies for the
Hetauda-Narayangarh project. A systematic collection of traffic data on
other roads is now being undertaken (para 2.09).



-9-
C. Administration
2.05      The Roads Department of the Ministry of Works and Transport is
responsible for the construction, maintenance, administration, and planning
of all national roads. Recognizing the Department's increasing limitations
to oversee and administer bilateral and multilateral projects scattered
throughout the country, and resulting from a UNDP-financed institutional
improvement study, the Department has been decentralized with a phased
expansion planned to match network growth. Government salaries are low
compared with what can be earned in the private sector. As long as the
compensation of civil servants remains out of line with the responsibilities
they carry and with what they could earn elsewhere, and as long as the
present policy of frequent reassignment continues, it would be optimistic to
expect efficient and energetic staff performance. Revision of the policies
governing remuneration and reassignments would greatly assist in providing
job security and the incentives needed for a more dynamic administration.
During negotiations the subjects of staff compensations and reassignment
policy were discussed. In the past IDA has taken up these matters with HMG
from time to time with some success (e.g., proposed primary education
project) but substantial increases in compensation cannot be expected in the
near future in view of the very limited fiscal resources. The compensation
issues will be the subject of a continuing discussion with HMG. On the
Government's reassignment policy, HMG gave an assurance that the key
personnel assigned to the execution of the Project will be retained in the
DOR until the completion of the Project.
D. Training
2.06      With the growth of the Department's activities, there is a clear
need for a greater number of qualified professional staff to plan, program,
and manage road development projects and for trained personnel at the
"grass-roots" level such as supervisors, equipment operators and mechanics to
ensure that the expanding road network is soundly maincained. Apart from
additional recruitment, difficult under the present compensation framework,
such a need can only be met by improving the capabilities of existing staff
by training.  At the operational level, the UNDP has a project being
implemented by ILO to train mechanics, and under the Second Highway Project
(Credit 730-NEP), IDA is financing the specific items of equipment needed to
complement this training effort. The UNDP-financed experts from ILO
responsible for the mechanics' training have identified additional needs for
professional and artisan training, including the training of road overseers
and equipment operators. The current UNDP project to train mechanics,
although considerably behind schedule, has commenced with a first intake in
December 1983 of potential trainers. The project had been dogged by slow
progress in the conversion of existing buildings to administrative offices,
classrooms and workshops, and the delayed arrival (some in damaged condition)



-10-
of training equipment. This component, however, is now making satisfactory
progress.
2.07      The British Government, through its Overseas Development
Administration (ODA), has financed the construction of two road sections in
Nepal. One, a portion of the East-West Highway between Narayangarth and
Butwal (113 km), and the other, a 51-km spur northwards through precipitous
terrain between Dharan on the far eastern section of the East-West Highway,
and Dhankuta. In order to assist DOR in ensuring both road sections remain
in sound condition, ODA has agreed with HMG to set up and finance for three
years a Roads Remedial Works Unit (RWU) which will undertake such major
repair works on these two road sections as are presently beyond the capacity
of DOR. Consultants will implement the project and their services will be
complemented by counterpart staff from DOR. Field staff would also be drawn
from DOR. Thus, this project will serve as an invaluable venue for practical
in-service training in maintenance procedures for DOR staff at the
operational levels. The training component of the proposed Project (para
3.15) should complement the efforts ODA is making in this field.
E. Planning
2.08      Planning in the highway sector (excluding Panchayat roads) is the
responsibility of DOR, the National Planning Commission, and the Ministry of
Finance. Priorities are dictated firstly by the desire for national
integration (i.e., completion of the East-West Highway), then on the need to
give access to the hill areas.
2.09      The DOR's planning branch undertakes alignment investigations and
feasibility studies and carries out the appropriate economic and technical
analyses of all proposed projects in the subsector. Traffic counting is now
being undertaken in a systematic way. The acquisition of a micro-computer
under the proposed project will facilitate traffic and transport studies.
The training element proposed under the project (para 3.14) will also help
strengthen DOR's capabilities for economic planning and project evaluation.
F. Finance
2.10       DOR's budget is based on the annual allocation under the Five-Year
Plan 1/ and for fiscal '83 was NR 910 million (US$58 million equivalent)
(Table 4) including funds from bilateral and multilateral agencies. The
budget included NR 25 million for routine road maintenance, a 25% increase
over the previous years's allocation, the largest increase in recent years
where annually about 4-5% has been the pattern. The budget allocation fcr
1/ A comparison of allocations under the Fifth Plan (1976-80) with those
under the Sixth Plan (1980/81-1985/86) is shown in Table 3.



-11-
periodic and emergency maintenance in the same year was NR 141.2 million,
which was double the amount expended in the previous year.
2.11      Revenues derive mainly from customs duties on vehicles and fuels,
vehicle taxes, licenses and road cess (Table 5). Revenues are not earmarked,
but they would meet recurrent expenditures and a good proportion of the
non-aid budget for construction.
G. Engineering
2.12      Generally, the design section of DOR is well equipped to handle the
hill roads program and minor projects. Major projects including the proposed
Project are designed by foreign consultants under contract to Government.
Geometric design standards for main and feeder roads were formulated by the
DOR in 1970 and are satisfactory (Table 6). Pavement design is based on the
number of repetitions of a standard 18,000 lb (8,200 kg) axle loading to be
sustained over the life selected (in the case of the main project road, 15
years), and is formulated in line with the procedures of the UK Transport and
Road Research Laboratory's Road Note No. 31. Structures are designed in
accordance with the "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges" adopted by
the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
(ASSHTO), 12th Edition 1977. Both the foregoing design procedures are in
common use and are accepted standards.
H. Construction
2.13      There has been some development of the local contracting industry;
indeed, one of the objectives of the Second Highway Project (Credit 730-NEP)
was to foster such development. However, success has been patchy. Some
small contractors have risen to the occasion and performed reasonably well,
but others, ill-prepared and with cash-flow problems have performed haltingly
at best. A number of key problems relating to Nepal's domestic construction
industry have been identified and improvement measures proposed in the Bank's
report prepared in 1978 and updated in late 1983 (para 2.15).
2.14      The National Construction Corporation of Nepal (NCCN), a parastatal
organization, has tended to dominate the local market for civil engineering
works, principally through its award of contracts after negotiation. As a
result, contracting firms in the private sector have had only a minor share
of the market. NCCN's experience has been primarily in the construction of
buildings where its record has been satisfactory. The Corporation's record
in road works has been less fortunate. Delays, slow progress, and in one
instance cessation of work have dogged its contracts, although recently there
have been improvements in both management and performance. In order to
develop the needed skills in work planning and management, it would be useful
experience for NCCN to joint-venture with or subcontract road works from a
foreign contractor of the calibre that would prequalify for the contracts
under the proposed project.



-12-
2.15      The findings of an assessment of Nepal's construction industry
remain unchanged. To promote a more viable local industry the report's
principal recommendations are: a consistent flow of appropriately "packaged"
contracts, reducing the number of negotiated contracts with NCCN; easier
lending requirements for guarantees; easier access to credit facilities for
approved contractors and the availability of an adequate pool of equipment
for hire. DOR, constrained principally by the limited and varying
allocations of funds for capital works from year to year, is exploring how
best to utilize funds available through KFW (Federal Republic of Germany) for
technical assistance to the industry, including NCCN.
2.16      Larger projects attract the interest of foreign firms with a
preponderance from India. However, as the prequalification of contractors
carried out for the proposed Babai Irrigation Project indicates, the present
world economic climate is stimulating the interest of contractors from other
more distant countries in projects in Nepal.
2.17      Force-account works are generally limited to emergency repairs and
minor works. Only exceptionally does DOR execute its projects in this way,
and in consequence the resources maintained for these purposes are small.
2.18      Supervision of construction works is carried out either by DOR's
engineers or, for major works by consultants (normalLy the consultant
responsible for design). Such arrangements have proved satisfactory.
I. Maintenance
2.19      There are few road networks in the world more difficult to maintain
than that of Nepal. Some roads traverse tropical plains in extremes of heat
and monsoonal flooding, some are perched on mountainsides subject to the
opposite climatic extremes of ice and snow. The steep, unstable slopes often
give way to landslides, another hazard for both the road builder and user.
The network is also expanding (Table 1) increasing the maintenance work load
of DOR.
2.20      A consequence of originally poor pavement designs and DOR's past
inability to cope with maintenance work effectively has been the
deterioration of such key roads as that from Kathmandu to Birganj to the
state where particular sections cannot be restored to good condition by
routine maintenance procedures and are in need of the extensive
rehabilitation/reconstruction proposed in the project.
2.21      Moreover, although DOR is decentralising its maintenance operations
and is deploying most of its organization to the regional offices, there
remain two critical shortages - equipment and skilled manpower.
Historically, Nepal has carried out road maintenance labor-intensively. Now,
with the availability of labour subject to wide seasonal fluctuations, DOR



-13-
must have the productive capacity of mechanical methods if it is to keep on
top of its maintenance work load. Additionally, operational staff at all
levels from road ganger, equipment operator, supervisor to planning engineer,
need to be brought current with modern practices elsewhere in the world if
they are to utilize equipment and funds to the best advantage; the proposed
project takes account of both these critical issues in specific components
for equipment procurement and technical assistance.
2.22      The issue of adequate funding for road maintenance is also
addressed under the project. On first inspection (Table 4), the sums
allocated in recent years for routine maintenance appear inadequate for the
needs despite a recent 25% increase. In general, the condition of the
network supports the need for higher budgetary allocations to be utilized to
the best advantage if expensive rehabilitation works are to be avoided in
future. In recognition of this need, during credit negotiations an
understanding was reached that HMG would allocate NR 40 million in the fiscal
1985 budget for routine maintenance of the network, representing the amount
that DOR's basic maintenance organization can, with its present capability,
meaningfully utilize. More significantly, to ensure that adequate funds are
allocated in future, it was also agreed that by March 31 each year HMG would
discuss with the Association the proposed allocation of funds for the
following fiscal year and take into account the Association's comments, if
any. However, the allocations for routine maintenance do not present the
whole picture. The nature of much of the network, as previously described,
renders it vulnerable to seasonal disruption by landslides and flooding.
Funding for such emergency works has been provided, as Table 4 illustrates,
and DOR's force account resources (para 2.17) are mobilized to execute the
needed repairs.
2.23      As vehicle sizes are just beginning to increase to take advantage
of the easier geometry of the new road and HMG is contemplating new transport
legislation at this time, the opportunity should be taken now to devise a
means to retrieve from the operators a proportion of the costs of the
increased wear and tear the heavier vehicles inflict on the road pavements.
To this end a policy of taxing heavy vehicles annually according to unladen
weights should be considered for all operators, with suitable arrangements
made to capture revenues from foreign truckers in order to strike an
approximate balance between the charges so levied and the costs of
maintaining the network. Such a policy, favoring vehicles with better load
distribution, could provide incentives to a more optimal use of the network
as well as a fairer incidence of charges on transport operators for such use.
2.24      The Asian Development Bank at present has under review current road
user charges, methods of collecting them, payments by different vehicle types
in relation to axle weights, and the relationships between road revenues and
expenditures. When the findings of the ADB-financed study are available, a
tripartite review will be undertaken by HMG, ADB and IDA to determine how
best to carry out a follow-up study on appropriate levels and structure of
charges, and improved collection methods.



-14-
III. The Project
A. Objectives
3.01      The main objectives of the project are:
(a) to provide, through completion of an all-weather East-West Highway,
a dependable means of integrating the Far West of the country into
the economy;
(b) to improve traffic conditions between Kathmandu and the Indian
border at Birganj by the selective rehabilitation of bridges and
road pavements; and
(c) to strengthen the operations and administration of the Department
of Roads (DOR), in particular, to improve their capability to
implement and monitor both road maintenance and the project
components by providing them with technical assistance, equipment
and training.
B. Description
3.02      The project comprises:
(a) the completion of Nepal's East-West Highway through the
construction of approximately 204 km of the final western
section from Kohalpur to the border with India at the
Mahakali River, including the construction of a
major bridge across the Karnali river at Chisapani;
(b) construction of about 60 km of feeder roads linking main
areas of agricultural production in the influence areas of
the Karnali river northwards to the project road;
(c) the rehabilitation/maintenance of about 82 km of the
Kathmandu-Birganj road, including selected bridges;
(d) the procurement of equipment for road maintenance and
a materials laboratory, office equipment and inspection
vehicles; and
(e) technical assistance and training.
East-West Highway Construction (204 km)
3.03      The East-West Highway, when completed with a length of about
1,040 km, will span the whole breadth of Nepal (Map 17132 R). The completion
of this last section from Kohalpur to the Mahakali river at the border with



-15-
India will open the Far West of the country with all-weather access to
Kathmandu, and will provide the single tangible means of integrating that
region into the economy as a whole. At present, access in the dry season is
either by air or by jeep track fording the many intersecting rivers flowing
south from the Siwalik range. In the monsoon season, flights to the STOL
airports are unreliable and are often cancelled because of weather
conditions, and the rivers crossing the jeep track are impassable. Then the
only reliable surface access is through India. Thus, for the inhabitants of
the Far West, the comparative ease of north/south travel has conditioned them
to regard India as a more logical focus of trade and commerce than Kathmandu.
Clearly, the construction of a reliable all-weather road linking them with
the rest of the country is a basic need and is HMG's priority project in the
transport sector (para 1.05).
3.04      About 850 km of the highway has already been built with assistance
from the Soviet Union, India, Great Britain and the United States. In the
westernmost section so far almost completed under financing from India, one
bottleneck remains.  A major bridge over the Rapti river (Map) was
irreparably damaged by flooding during construction and work was suspended by
the contractor. Work has recently commenced on an adjacent site by a new
contractor, but it is important that this bridge be completed during the
period of the project road contracts otherwise the concept of an all-weather
road to the west will not be realized. During credit negotiations, HMG
agreed that work on this bridge would be finished by the time the East-West
Highway contracts are completed.
3.05      For the first 48.5 km from the Indian border eastwards to Ataria
most of the embankment earthworks for the new road have been completed by HMC
and the work under contract will comprise construction of the pavement layers
and twelve bridges. The remainder of the project road will be constructed
in full. The road alignment skirts to the north of the fertile plain of the
Terai, following in general, the line of the Siwalik foothills. It will
cross the Karnali river, one of Nepal's largest, at the Chisapani gorge by a
major bridge for which detailed engineering is being undertaken. Below the
gorge, the Karnali fans out into a maze of meanders, and although possible
sites for bridges and ferries can be found, substantial training works
upstream would be needed to try to retain the streams in the beds which are
bridged. In view of the intensity of flooding (the ten-year flood is
estimated at 20,000 cu.m/sec, the 100-year flood nearly 31,000 cu.m/sec), the
training works needed would have to be substantial indeed; it was deemed
prudent, therefore, to cross near the gorge mouth where the bed is stable and
the abutments can be protected from flood damage by scour or transported
material.
3.06      For about 15 km immediately east of the Karnali river, the
alignment crosses the Karnali Wildlife Reserve, an area of about 90,000 ha,
which, before the advent of the proposed road, would have remained remote
from disturbance. Now with a main road, albeit lightly trafficked, crossing



-16-
it, HMC is aware that resolute conservation and protective measures will need
to be taken if the environment is not to be seriously impaired. An adequate
action plan involving such controls as entry and exit posts, limitation on
night-time travel, etc., has been agreed between the Roads Department and the
National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Office, and will be enforced also
during construction of the road (paras 3.34-3.36).
Feeder Road Construction
3.07      West of the Karnali river, the proposed alignment of the main road
skirts the foothills on the north of the cultivated Terai. In order to
ensure that there is adequate access to the new road from the populous areas
more to the south, and in particular, the fertile fan of the Karnali delta,
the project provides for approximately 60 km of feeder roads. They would
have a gravel wearing course only, and as they would be aligned approximately
north-south, they would not cross any major streams and could be built at
relatively low cost.
Rehabilitation/Improvement of the Kathmandu-Birganj Road
3.08      Nepal's principal land link with the south runs from its border
with India at Birganj northwards to the junction with the East-West Highway
at Hetauda, west along that route to Narayangarth, north to Mugling and then
east to Kathmandu via Naubise and Thangkot (Map). The condition of different
sections of the road varies widely. For example, the road between Hetauda
and Narayangarth is newly constructed and paved under financing from the
Asian Development Bank (the last contract was completed in June 1983).
Northwards, the section from Narayangarth to Mugling has also been completed
recently with aid from the Republic of China. Between Naubise and Thangkot
the road was reconstructed recently under the IDA Second Highway Project
(Credit 730-NEP).
3.09      The surface (6.Om paved width) of the 56 km Birganj-Hetauda road is
in poor condition, and in many places is broken and deformed. However, it is
on a good alignment and is well drained. DOR is carrying out selective
reconstruction/repair works to bring it back to maintainable condition. The
six single-lane bridges on this route (including one on the border with
India) were built to lower design standards than are now appropriate. Some
are more than 50 years old and their replacement is long overdue. The
project provides for the reconstruction of all except the one on the border.
HMG intends reaching agreement with the Government of India on a program for
the reconstruction of the border bridge and when such agreement is obtained,
will arrange for its construction.
3.10      In worse condition than the road from Birganj to Hetauda is that
between Naubise and Mugling (82 km). The pavement of this road is not only
structurally deficient, but its paved width of only 3.5m is inappropriate to
the volume and mix of traffic now using it. Consequently, the proposed



-17-
rehabilitation works include widening of the road to 6 m where topography
permits and the provision of shoulders of at least 1 m width. For about
10-15% of its length the present alignment is characterized by steep side
cuts; in many places widening would entail such large volumes of earthwork
that the major construction efforts involved would exceed the scope of this
project. Therefore it is proposed that widening would be carried out
selectively and where practicable, in sections of sufficient length so that,
commensurate with road safety, the user is not confronted with a series of
rapid changes of section. Because of poor subgrade conditions, special
attention needs to be paid to drainage of the road, in particular, to ensure
that the irrigation needs of frontage properties are not met by interference
with the road drainage system. Fortunately, good construction materials are
available from the bed of the river which parallels the road. The bridges on
this road are of full width and in conformity with Nepal's current design
standards.
3.11      Not so, however, are two bridges on the adjoining Thangkot-Naubise
section, the pavement of which was rehabilitated under Credit 730-NEP, the
Second Highway Project. The bridges were not included in that project
because of lack of funds. These single-lane bridges were built about 30
years ago to an eight-ton design loading. This design loading is being
grossly exceeded by heavy transport vehicles, mainly from India, and their
continued use in this way is fraught with risk. Not only are they
structurally inadequate, but the approaches to them are on such sharp, tight
curves that larger vehicles are often obliged to back and fill in order to
pass between the through-trusses without obstruction. The end members of the
trusses have been damaged and distorted by vehicle collisions. The
reconstruction of these two bridges is without doubt the highest priority
work of the project.
Procurement of Equipment
3.12      In order to provide DOR with the means of implementing road
maintenance effectively, the project provides for the procurement of
particular items of equipment needed for the repair of paved roads. The
composition of the list of the equipment needed (Annex 1) was discussed and
finalized at credit negotiations. Assurances were obtained from HMG that the
list as then finalized will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
the Credit Agreement. In addition, so that the quality of materials and the
procedures adopted in rehabilitation/maintenance works may be monitored and
controlled effectively, the equipment needed for a materials laboratory
dealing with soils, bituminous mixtures and concrete testing is also included
in the project. A suitable building for use as a laboratory is available in
Kathmandu.
3.13      Some routine tasks to which the DOR is unable to devote sufficient
resources, could be handled more efficiently by computer. For example, the
initial recording and subsequent updating of the road inventory is a tedious



-18-
and time consuming task. Excellent computer programs now exist to handle
this work, but in such a way that priority sections for remedial works may be
instantly identified. Similarly, inventories may be kept of materials, spare
parts, etc. In addition to fact-recording capabilities such as these, where
a computer not only relieves the tedium of repetitive work, but instead,
spices it with interest, such a machine can be of material assistance in the
design office. Accordingly, the project provides for such a computer for DOR
headquarters.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.14      The assistance given in the past by a technical advisor to DOR has
proved to be of great value, largely due to the calibre of the person
selected. Free from the pressures of administration, this individual has
been able to devote himself fully to the technical, project-related matters
that line management could not deal with in the same depth. The
administrative work load has not diminished, nor has the number of line staff
to cope with it increased. Hence, with the proposed Third Highway Project
giving the road subsector an unprecedented surge in work load, DOR now needs
more than before the support of an experienced advisor. The project
therefore provides for 36 man months of such services. In addition to such
direct technical assistance, the project provides expatriate training for the
younger professional of DOR in: (a) the planning, evaluation and programming
of projects; (b) the design and construction of projects; and (c) modern
workshop practices and equipment operation. In all, 265 man-months of
training period would be provided in eight specializations under the three
broad categories listed above (Annex 2) between 1985 and 1988. Some of the
courses would be at University level; others would be in-service with
appropriate organizations or government departments overseas. During credit
negotiations, HMG gave its assurances that the training program would be
implemented as scheduled.
3.15      Additionally, the training of mechanics, initiated under the Second
Highway Project (Credit 730-NEP) will be continued with the objective of
training about 200 such personnel in courses of six months duration.
However, the scope of training would be broadened to include firstly, courses
in preventive maintenance for equipment operators, and later, courses in
maintenance practices and techniques for supervisory personnel concerned with
road maintenance. The training of these field personnel will be integrated
with the RWU project being implemented by ODA (para 2.07).
C. Engineering
East-West Highway
3.16      Based on the findings of their feasibility study, the engineering
of the East-West Highway was carried out by Norconsult (Norway) in accordance
with the design standards of Table 6, which are satisfactory. The eastern 46



-19-
km of the highway, from Kohalpur to the Babai river, was designed to the same
standards by McDonald and Partners (UK) in parallel with their design of the
Babai Irrigation Project, also prepared for IDA financing. This arrangement
was made because at that time it was felt that the Babai Scheme would be
implemented considerably in advance of the proposed Third Highway Project,
and 30 km of the highway would be needed to provide access to the main
irrigation canal works (they both share a common LOOm right-of-way over that
30 km length). The design of the Karnali bridge at Chisapani is being
prepared by the U.S. consultant Steinman, Boynton, Gronquist and Birdsall
whose proposal for the design was adjudged the most appropriate.
Highway Rehabilitation
3.17      The preliminary engineering and economic studies which defined the
road and bridge rehabilitation component of the project were prepared by N.D.
Lea (Canada), to the standards detailed in Table 6, which are satisfactory.
The final engineering and bidding documents are being prepared by consultants
appointed by O.D.A.
D. Cost Estimates
3.18      The estimated cost of the project is shown in Table 7 and is
summarized below:
Project Cost Summary
Rupees Million           US$ Million         Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
A. East-West Highway          241.6   672.3   914.4   15.3   42.6    57.9         74      75
B. Road Rehabilitation         39.6   168.4   228.0    3.8   10.7    14.4         74     19
C. Institution Building
& Road Maintenance          1.0    75.5    76.5    0.1    4.8        4.8     99       6
Total Baseline Costs       302.2   916.7 1,212.7   19.1   58.0    77.1         75    100
Physical Contingencies  33.1    92.5   125.6    2.1    5.9          8.0     74      10
Price Contingencies    124.2   363.9   488.2    7.9   23.0    30.9          75      40
Total Project Costs        459.5 1,373.2 1,832.7   29.1   86.9   116.0        75    150
3.19      For the East-West Highway, construction cost estimates are based on
quantities from the final engineering design, coupled with unit rates at
end-1983 derived from cost factor inputs and from recent and current
construction contracts.  The preliminary cost estimate for the bridge at
Chisapani is derived from the costs of similar structures elsewhere.



-20-
3.20      The costs of road rehabilitation and bridge construction are
similarly based on designs derived from field studies and traffic projections
prepared by both DOR and consultants. The costs of equipment are based on
current manufacturers' prices including cif charges (end-1983 prices). The
estimates of training costs are based on information provided by the
International Road Federation and the UK Crown Agents. Cost estimates of
consulting services are based on the man-months needed and rates applicable
at end 1983.
3.21      Price escalations of the foreign exchange and local cost components
have been calculated on the following basis:
Fiscal Year              1984  1985   1986   1987  1988  1989  1990
Local Escalation %        9.0   8.0    7.0    7.0   7.0   6.5   6.5
Foreign Escalation %    0.10  5.8    8.5    9.0   9.0   8.2   6.7
A 10% physical contingency has been included to allow for unforseen increases
in quantities except for the road and bridge rehabilitation works, where,
because of the more preliminary nature of the designs, 15% has been allowed.
During credit negotiations the project cost estimates were discussed and
agreed with the Government.
3.22      The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been
estimated at 74% assuming the work to be executed by foreign contractors with
some subcontracting to local firms. This factor was determined from a
detailed analysis of the costs of a recently completed comparable project,
(the ADB-financed section of the East-West Highway) executed in a similar
way. The 81% foreign exchange component for supervision and 99% foreign
exchange cost for technical assistance are based on the similar services
provided in the Second Highway Project. During credit negotiations, the
project cost estimates were discussed and confirmed with HMG.
E. Financing
3.23      The Borrower would be His Majesty Government of Nepal.  The
proposed IDA credit of US$47.5 million would finance about 55% of the
project's foreign costs or 40% of total costs. HMG will provide US$18.0
million, or about 62% of the project's local costs. The shortfall of US$50.5
million in project costs will be met in part by the Saudi Fund for
Development (SFD) who will finance the two western contracts out of the four
for the East-West Highway construction, and the British Government, which
through ODA, will meet the costs (US$19.7 million equivalent) of the Road
Rehabilitation component (Table 3). The Saudi Fund has already signed its
loan agreement for an amount of Saudi Ryals 106 million (US$30.8 million
equivalent) with HMG. Effectiveness of the Saudi Fund Loan would be a



-21-
condition of effectiveness for the proposed IDA credit. The co-financing
arrangements agreed will be in parallel and not jointly with IDA, each agency
assuming responsibility for separate, economically viable project components
as illustrated in Table 3.2. During credit negotiations, the financing plan
was discussed and confirmed with HMG which gave its commitment to meet its
share of local costs, including possible over-runs in project costs.



-22-
Table 3.2
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Financing Plan (US$Million)
Source of Funds
Project Component                       Cost   IDA      SF      ODA    HMG
East-West Highway
Contract 1                           11.7             9.8           1.9
Contract 2                           19.5            16.4           3.1
Contract 3                           15.2    11.7                   3.5
Contract 4                           17.0    13.1                   3.9
Supervision                         5.4             4.6           0.8
Chisapani Bridge                       15.0    11.6                    3.4
Feeder Roads                            2.0      1.5                  0.5
Supervision                        0.8      0.7                   0.1
Road Rehabilitation
Thangkot-Naubise Bridges              0.5                     0.5
Naubise-Mugling Pavement             17.0                    17.0
Supervision                       2.2                     2.2
Birganj-Hetauda Bridges               3.0     2.3                   0.7
Supervision                       0.2      0.1                   0.1
Equipment                             4.0     4.0
Technical Assistance & Training    2.5        2.5
TOTAL                                 116.0    47.5   30.8   19.7  18.0
SF  =  Saudi Fund for Development
ODA = Overseas Development Administration (UK)
HMG =  His Majesty's Government of Nepal



-23-
F. Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting
3.24      The DOR would be responsible for project implementation.  Direct
supervision of the four road construction contracts comprising the East-West
Highway would be undertaken by consultants selected in accordance with the
procurement conditions of the Saudi Fund for Development from a number of
firms on the basis of their proposals for the works. To provide overall
project management HMG has constituted the Mahendra Rajmarg (MRM) Kohalpur
Mahakali Construction Development Board, the composition of which is listed
at Annex 3. However, to ensure the maximum training impact on DOR staff from
executing the project works, the Chief Engineer has required the consultant
to utilize the services of Roads Department engineers and technicians who
will form part of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for which an
organization chart is attached (Chart). Key personnel should be assigned to
the PIU towards the end of 1984 about the time the credit is expected to
become effective; the appointment of the project manager is a condition of
credit effectiveness as is the selection of consultants to supervise the
East-West highway construction. However, at the date of this appraisal
report both the foregoing conditions have been met; an experienced engineer
from the staff of DOR has been appointed as project manager, and the Canadian
consultant N.D. Lea, has been selected to supervise the construction works.
Supervision of the construction of the bridge across the Karnali river at
Chisapani will be carried out by the consultant responsible for the design
work. Again, this work will be carried out under the aegis of the Project
Implementation Unit. Consultants for the supervision of Chisapani Bridge
construction, the Birganj-Hetauda bridges and for strengthening DOR's
administration and operations will be financed under the proposed IDA Credit
and in accordance with IDA guidelines.
3.25      For the ODA-financed road and bridge rehabilitation works,
supervision will be exercised by UK-based consultants selected in accordance
with the terms and conditions of Britain's grant agreement with HMG.
3.26      The PIU together with the supervisory consultants will prepare
quarterly and annual reports on the progress of the project for Government,
the Saudi Fund and IDA. The PIU will also prepare the Project Completion
Report in due time. During credit negotiations, the following matters were
discussed and confirmed with HMG:
(a) the composition of the PIU;
(b) the project reporting arrangements; and
(c) the project implementation schedule (Annex 4).
Land Acquisition
3.27      HMG has the legal authority to expropriate the right of way needed
for roads, and in situations when compensation to owners is involved, to
permit contractors' entry on such land whilst compensation is being



-24-
negotiated.   Annex 5 details the steps to be taken by DOR to obtain the land
needed for the road. During credit negotiations HMG confirmed that all land
needed for road construction could be obtained within three months of notice
being served on the occupants, and in any case by June 1985, well in advance
of contractors' mobilization.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.28      Procurement arrangements for the project components are illustrated
in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3
Procurement Method
Project Element                         ICB      LCB    Other    Total Cost
1. Civil Works
(a) East-West Highway               32.24             31.18       63.42
(24.82)                      (24.82)
Chisapani Bridge                14.96                         14.96
(11.52)                      (11.52)
Feeder Roads                              2.00                 2.00
(1.54)              (1.54)
Supervision of                                     6.21        6.21
Construction                                      (0.63)      (0.63)
(b) Road Rehabilitation
Thangkot-Naubise Bridges                           0.46        0.46
Naubise-Mugling Pavement                          17.01       17.01
Birganj-Hetauda Bridges          3.00                          3.00
(2.31)                       (2.31)
Supervision                                        2.44        2.44
(0.18)      (0.18)
2. Equipment                             3.9              0.10        4.00
(3.9)            (0.10)      (4.00)
3. Technical Assistance and                               2.50        2.50
Training                                             (2.50)      (2.50)
TOTAL                           54.10    2.00   59.90        116.00
(42.55)  (1.54)  (3.41)    (47.50)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association.



-25-
In respect of the East-West Highway construction, the two western contracts
will be financed by the Saudi Fund for Development (Table 3.2), and will be
awarded after bidding among prequalified contractors in compliance with the
Credit Agreement with SFD; for the remainder as well as for the bridge at
Chisapani, in accordance with Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement".
Contractors prequalified for the work under IDA Credit will be allowed to
bid for one or more contracts up to the limit of their prequalifications,
and awards will be made after an evaluation which demonstrates the
arrangement of contracts most advantageous 1/ to Government. The contracts
for the Naubise-Mugling road rehabilitation and the Thangkot-Naubise bridge
reconstruction works of the Birganj-Kathmandu road will be awarded, after a
separate contractor prequalification, in accordance with the provisions of
the agreement between Britain's ODA and HMG whilst the reconstruction of the
Birganj-Hetauda bridges will be in compliance with the Bank's "Procurement
Guidelines".
3.29      Equipment for road maintenance would also be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement" with the proviso that items of an individual value of less
than US$20,000 may be purchased by prudent shopping up to an aggregate value
of US$150,000.
3.30      All contracts for civil works, consultants' services and equipment
being financed by IDA would be subject to review by IDA prior to award. A
preference of 7-1/2% for domestic contractors would be given in respect of
civil works contracts.
Disbursement
3.31      Disbursements from the proceeds of the IDA credit would be made
on the following basis:
(a) 77% of total expenditures for the construction of the East-West
highway, the feeder roads, the bridge over the Karnali river at
Chisapani, and the five bridges of the Birganj-Hetauda road;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for the road maintenance equipment,
spare parts, and other equipment and materials for DOR; or 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured
goods; and 90% of local expenditures for goods procured locally
(off-the-shelf); and
1/ Award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder for the combined con-
tracts or the lowest evaluated bidder for each contract.



-26-
(c) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services, technical
assistance and training of DOR staff.
3.32      A schedule of estimated disbursements has been prepared (Annex 6)
and in summary is as follows:
Fiscal Year             '85    '86    '87    '88    '89
Cumulative Disb. US$   3.98   11.36  24.50  37.85  47.50
The disbursement period of about five years is based on past experience in
Nepal. Although the published disbursement profiles for all projects in
Nepal reflect a ten-year drawn-down period but with the curve being almost
asymptotic over the last two to three years, recent experience in highways
indicates a shorter implementation period. Credit 730-NEP which financed
the Second Highway Project became effective at the end of 1977 and will close
at the end of 1984. The main civil works component was almost two years late
in starting due, among other things, to delays in bidding, problems in
evaluation, and the works were undertaken throughout by local contractors,
some of whom had been quite unfamiliar with road works (para 2.13). Despite
these problems of unfamiliarity coupled with short construction seasons and
the prolonged start-up period, the project works will be completed within a
five-year construction period. The current proposed project, on the other
hand, starts with prequalified contractors of international standing, will be
supervised by consultants selected on the basis of a rigorous evaluation, and
who are moreover, familiar with the country. On this basis, therefore, a
five-year construction period is proposed. The expected Closing Date is thus
June 30, 1990.
H. Accounting and Auditing
3.33      A recent review by consultants indicated that HMG's accounting
procedures, whilst generally adequate, left some room for improvement,
particularly in relation to IDA financed projects. As a result, the
consultants assisted the Finance Comptroller General (FCG) in the drafting of
a Project Accounting Manual specifically to regularize accounting procedures
for all IDA funded projects so that FCG would be presented with project
accounts prepared in standard format for monitoring project expenditures.
The new procedures are already being implemented satisfactorily on three
IDA-financed projects and it is proposed that the proposed project be
included as a fourth. The Department of the Auditor-General is adequately
staffed and competent to handle the audit of project accounts. During credit
negotiations HMG agreed that separate accounts for the project would be kept,
that they would be audited annually, and the audit report submitted to the
Association not later than nine months after the close of the year in
question.



-27-
I. Envirunmental Impact
3.34      The construction of the first section of the East-West Highway will
impinge on the environment. Firstly, it will superimpose a fresh and
additional traffic pattern on the region, at right angles to the traditional
north-south flows. Secondly, it will expose hitherto isolated conservation
areas to the easy access of all. In particular, the main project road
traverses for about 15km the Royal Karnali Wildlife Reserve (para 3.06). In
order to mitigate the effects of this exposure and severance, HMG proposed
measures which will be incorporated into the road's construction, and others
to be enforced by the National Parks and Wild Life Office both during and
after construction (Annex 7).
3.35      Because of the presence of elephants in the Reserve, the possible
parallel fencing of the road has been deemed impracticable. However, where
the new road is intersected by the tracks used by the Wildlife Reserve
personnel, fences and gates will be provided to prevent unauthorized access.
To minimize physical disruption, no road-building material may be taken from
sources outside the road width within the Reserve, or excess materials dumped
there.
3.36      In addition to these infrastructure provisions, the Park warden
will continue to man the entrances and exits to the Reserve on a 24-hour
basis, monitoring traffic in and out, and, if needed, restricting traffic to
the hours of daylight. The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Office
has the necessary legal authority to regulate traffic through the Reserve,
and during credit negotiations, HMG agreed that the boundary gates would be
manned both during road construction and afterwards for the project life.
Evidence that HMG has in fact adopted the conservation measures described
above as well as the regulations, permits, etc. providing for the
construction of the 15 km of road within the Wildlife Reserves, will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.37      The rehabilitation works proposed on the Birganj-Kathmandu road
will not detract from the environment. Rather, by expediting traffic flows
and eliminating rough, broken sections of roadway, the environment,
particularly of the travelling public, will be enhanced.



-28-
!V.  EC j MIC EVALUA TION
A. Kchalpur-Mahaka1i Highway (East-West Highway)
General
4.01      The 7ar 14estern Region of Mepal, where the ProCject road is located,
has no direct surface i1nk to the rest of Nepal, and the east-west traveller
must utilize Lndian roads or railways to traverse thie country. The absence
of a surface link with .he administrative and marketing centers to the east
resulted in high costs of transit for one-third of the population and
difficulties in administration and development. Completion of the East-West
Highway network is, therefore, a prerequisite for promoting the country's
political and economic integration.  The network would provide access to the
fertile plains known as the Terai which has Nepal's greatest agricultural
potential and to the hill people who would be able to purchase agricultural
products and trade in market tcwns which are expected to spring up along the
East-West Highway.
Socio-Economic Characteristics
4.02      The road would service about 550,000 people in the Terai, largely
engaged in subsistence agriculture and earning US$100 equivalent annually.
If the hill population is included (para 4.01), the road would serve about
one million people.  The latest census (1981) has shown that the population
growth rate in the Terai has been 4.6% p.a., which is almost double the
national rate of population increase. The non-rural population is mainly
concentrated in Mahendranagar, Dangarhi and Nepalgani, with populations of
l0,000-30,000 where small and medium light industries are developing.
Traditionally, because of the absence of east-west road connections, trade
consists of the south-north movement of commodities and manufactured goods
from India to the Terai and the hills, and a north-south movement to India of
surplus agricultural products which mainly originate in the Terai. The large
hill population has little surplus produce to sell except ghee and some
spices in return for imported sugar, salt and clothing from India.  Farming
is focussed on paddy rice supplemented by wheat, maize and pulses. Cropping
intensity is relatively low at 1.2 per year as compared with 2 in the
neighboring states of India. The potential for increased production is,
therefore, large, and the Government has initiated several major irrigation,
power and rural development projects. These efforts are, however, severely
hampered by the lack of road connections. The project addresses this
critical need.



-2 9
Problems of Transportation
4.03      Several major projects 1/ in the Far West are encountering serious
implementation problems largely due to difficult access. These difficulties
are typified by the Kumbher Cotton Project, where extension workers find it
difficult to provide adequate supervision during the critical planting and
growing seasons; laborers are unwilling to settle in the area because of
transportation problems leading to serious labor shortages; marketing the
product is costly in the absence of all weather roads; and other problems
include prolonged administrative and logistic delays in getting equipment and
spare parts, shortage of fuel supplies and slow work by local contractors.
4.04      Without the project, access to the Far West hill regions is
confined to porter and mule trails with costly airlifting of equipment and
materials to the hills as the only alternative to land transport.  The
project road together with the feeder roads would, by assisting in increasing
agricultural production, benefit the food deficit hill and mountain regions,
help overcome food shortages in the country, and make a major contribution to
assuring the viability of the substantial investments already made and
planned in irrigation and agricultural development in the Far West.
Analytical Approach
4.05      The economic evaluation was undertaken by integrating the total
costs and benefits of major irrigation, agricultural and other development
projects in the road influence areas with those of the project road. Since
the changes in the agricultural production system were expected to take place
as a result of the project road and the complementary investments in
irrigation, agricultural extension and on-farm development, an integrated
analysis was undertaken in quantifying the project's benefits. The total
agricultural costs and benefits have been quantified year-by-year and
crop-by-crop based on the analysis of crop areas, yields, production costs,
ex-farm prices, marketed output and locaL consumption. The increased
agricultural production forms the first group of benefits.
4.06      Similarly, for the five major investment projects in the road
influence areas, i.e., (i) livestock development and milk production,
(ii) paper mill, (iii) power distribution project, (iv) leather processing
industry, and (v) the solvent plant, annual expenditures and corresponding
benefits for each investment have been calculated since these investment
1/ Notably, Mahakali, Mohana and Khutia irrigation projects; integrated
rural development projects in the Mahakali Hills, Karnali-Bheri and Seti;
Kumbher Cotton Project; and preparation work for Babai and Jamuar Nala
Irrigation and Chisapani hydropower projects.



-30-
projects are interdependent of the project road. The net benefits of these
investments form the second group of benefits.
4.07      The third group of benefits include:
(a)  the avoidable cost of airlifting food to the hills;
(b)  potential savings to the national airline, RNAC; and
(c)  earnings potential from tourism.
4.08      Rate of return on the entire package of interdependent investments
was calculated by comparing the total costs and benefits of all major
investment projects mentioned above.
Quantification of Benefits
(a) Agricultural Benefits
4.09      The evaluation of economic benefits is based on the incremental
value of agricultural production, induced and made possible by the road in
the areas where specific irrigation and agricultural development schemes are
either being implemented or planned. The estimated cost and benefit streams
of these investment projects in accordance with the expected implementation
schedules were set out in Table 8. The major irrigation and agricultural
schemes analyzed are: Mahakali, Mohana, Khutia, Jamnar Nala, Babai and
Kumbher Cotton projects.
4.10      The net agricultural benefits obtainable from subsistence farming
with the project road were estimated in accordance with the assumptions and
methodology contained in Annex 8. It was assumed that extension services and
other necessary farm inputs would be provided gradually, resulting in a 1%
increase in yields in 5 years on existing cultivated land and a 2% increase
on newly cleared forest land. The net benefit stream is shown in Table 9.
(b) Benefits of major development projects in the Road Influence Areas
4.11      In addition to the agricultural benefits, an analysis of five major
development projects (livestock, paper mill, transmission line, leather
processing factory and the solvent plant) was undertaken since these
investment projects would not be viable without the project road. In the
case of the livestock project, the collection and delivery of milk and milk
products would be severely constrained; the paper mill would have to import
raw materials for paper production at higher costs, instead of exploiting
local resources available along the project road; the power transmission
project would have to incur additional costs of clearing the bushes and
providing access roads for maintenance and operation; the operation of the
leather processing factory would be greatly hindered in the absence of the



-31-
project road which would link the factory and the important livestock area
supplying skins and hides; and the solvent plant in Dhangarhi incurs high
costs of transporting raw materials and suffers from idle capacity due to the
limited collection of raw materials. Annex 9 contains details of these
investments.
(c) Avoidable Costs of Airlifting
4.12      The volume of food grains and other essential commodities which
have to be airlifted into the hill areas of the western region has averaged
about 3,000 tons per year. The demand for these goods in the hills would be
higher if transport costs were lower and services more frequent. The
estimated costs of airlifting range from NRs 5,000 to NRs 12,000 per ton,
with a weighted average of NRs 6,000, and those by truck on the presently
unimproved north-south roads from NRs 400 in the dry season to NRs 2,000
during the wet season. The replacement ofE airlifting by truck transport on
routes between the Terai and various points in the mid-hills would yield
annual savings of NRs 8 million. 1/ The project would greatly assist in the
collection of the surplus grain in the Terai and its distribution northwards
and, together with feeder roads, would remove the need to airlift goods to
the hills as this movement would be replaced by truck transport. (Annex 10).
(d) Savings to the National Airline, RNAC
4.13      Another source of savings could be obtained from better utilization
of aircraft operating out of Dhangarhi. At present, flights between
Dhangarhi and hill areas operate below capacity in order to carry extra fuel
as there are no refuelLing facilities west of Nepalganj. Analysis of the
monthly seat allotment charts and flight schedules showed that RNAC is losing
NRS 100,000 a week, or NRS 4 million p.a. Only 40 weeks were counted instead
of 52, due to the three-month monsoon period.
4.14      The project road would enable this loss to be eliminated since fuel
could be distributed from Nepalganj to Dhangarhi by road. The Nepal Oil
Corporation indicated their willingness to set up the necessary refuelling
center at Dhangarhi. It has refrained from doing so in the past because of
the transport problems.
(e) Earnings Potential from Tourism
4.15      The project area contains one of the country's richest wildlife
areas at Karnali (Map). Inaccessibility has prevented any development of the
area to date. if the road is completed, tour operators and other commercial
1/ The savings are based on the difference between the cost of air transport
and the maximum cost by truck.



interests plan to establish a three-center tour comprising the popular Tiger
Tops (Chitwan)-Karnali-Jumla,l/ by combining the special wildlife attractions
of the Terai with those of the mountain lake scenery around Jumla in the
Himalayas. Based on experience of similar operations in Nepal the benefits
in terms of net foreign exchange earnings is judged to be from NRs 5 million
in the first year of operation rising to NRs 14 million after ten years.
(f) Other Quantifiable Benefits
4.16      The other benefits were quantified but were not included in the
rate of return calculations since the amounts were relatively small, and the
available data were sketchy. These include: (i) savings in time and
expenses incurred by government administrators; and (ii) avoidable costs of
transit through India (See Annex 11).
4.17      The ERR on the entire package of interdependent investments
including the road is 14% (Table 9). If the road construction costs increase
by 15%, the ERR would decrease to 13%, and if the construction costs increase
by 25%, the ERR would further decrease to 12%. If the benefits increase by
15%, the ERR would increase to 15%. If the costs go up by 15% while the
benefits go down by the same amount, the ERR would decrease to 12%. The base
ERR is, however, over the opportunity cost of capital, estimated at 10% in
Nepal, demonstrating an economically acceptable project.
B. Road/Bridge Rehabilitation (Kathmandu-Birganj)
4.18      The Kathmandu-Birganj corridor is Nepal's principal trade route
to India, and the main supply line of i.mports to the country. The volume of
traffic has grown steadily over the years and has reached the highest level
in the country at 500-700 v.p.d. (Annex 12)e The road sections are, however,
so badly deteriorated that they cannot be maintained by routine procedures.
The Hetauda-Birganj section, built long ago, was designed to accommodate much
lower traffic volumes and loadings than at present. The bridges included in
the project were also designed for 8-ton loads as against the current loads
of 15-20 tons. Moreover, their apprcaches on sharp, tight curves create
hazardous driving conditions.
L/ The project road would follow the existing alignment of a forest road
through the reserve for about 15 km. It is feared that traffic on this
road would disturb the natural habitat unless strict protection measures
are observed during and after construction. Experiences with similar
situations (e.g., the Santhiana Forest Reserve in India just south of
Dhangarhi) show that a road can be acceptable provided the reserve is
controlled properly and policed effectively.  This example showed that
with careful planning and implementation the wildlife environment can be
preserved and bring additional benefits to the project area.



-33-
4.19      The objectives of the project are, therefore, to:  (i) reduce
vehicle operating costs and accidents; and (ii) restore a smooth running
surface through rehabilitation/reconstruction so that routine/periodic
maintenance can be perEormed by DOR. The technical assistance and training
components included in the project are intended to upgrade DOR's maintenance
capabilities.
(a) Bridge Rehabilitation/Replacement
4.20      An economic evaluation was carried out for 20 river crossings
between Thankot and Raxaul. The quantifiable benefits attributable to the
replacement of the bridges are the avoidable costs of: (i) providing and
maintaining a temporary crossing after a bridge failure; (ii) traffic
disruption caused by a structural collapse; and (iii) congestion on the
heavily travelled single lane structures at Birganj-Rexaul. The estimated
benefits from each source, based upon the assessed remaining life of the
individual structure, plus the cost of providing a permanent structure at a
later date, were compared with the proposed bridge rehabilitation cost. The
economic analysis indicated that only 8 bridges out of 20 examined would be
economically justified. The investment in the remaining 12 bridges would
have to be postponed until later date. Out of the 8 economically viable
bridges, however, the border bridge between Birganj and Raxaul has been
deleted from the project since additional time is required to reach an
agreement with India on cost sharing formula, maintenance responsibility, and
institutional arrangement for project execution. The ERRs on the 7 bridges
range from a high of 23% for the Naubise Bridge to a low of 14% for Chure
(Table 10). Sensitivity analyses of costs and benefits show that even in the
most unfavorable cases where costs are 15% greater than estimated and
benefits, 25% lower, ERRs yield from 9% to 16% (Table 11).
(b) Rehabilitation of Hetauda-Birganj Road
4.21       In 1982/83, the average annual daily traffic (AADT) on this road
was 565, of which 83% were heavy vehicles. The overall traffic growth rate
has been from 6% to 7% in the past decade. For the economic analysis 6.5%
p.a. growth was assumed until 1993 and 5% p.a' thereafter. The quantifiable
benefits are: (a) savings in maintenance costs; and (b) reduced vehicle
operating costs resulting from a smoother running surface with the project.
The ERR for this component is 15% (Table 12). A surmmary of the sensitivity
analysis shows that if the cost increases by 25%1, or the benefits decrease by
25%, the rate of return is 12%.  If the cost increases by 25% and the
benefits decrease by 25% at the same time, the ERR would be reduced to 9%.
The benefit calculations are conservative, since they do not include reduced
travel times resulting from an. improved road surface, or accident reductions
likely to result as the need to avoid potholes and poor road sections is
eliminated.



-34-
(c) Naubise-Mugling Road
4.22       In 1983, the traffic volume (AADT) on this road was 435, with 80%
trucks and buses. The quantifiable benefits were derived from savings in
vehicle operating and maintenance costs and reduced accidents (Table 13).
Only reductions in the cost of damaged or destroyed vehicles have been
quantified based on experiences in Nepal. Losses of human lives and cargo,
known to be considerable, have not been quantified. The ERR for this
component is 18% (Table 14). The benefit stream is particularly sensitive to
the growth in traffic (Table 15). Nevertheless, even under the adverse
condition of a 25% increase in costs and 25% decrease in benefits, this
component would still yield an ERR of 12%. The benefits are understated to
the extent that they do not take into account generated traffic or travel
time savings.
4.23      The overall weighted average ERR of the East-West highway
construction and ancillary investments in agriculture and other
interdependent development projects together with the road/bridge
rehabilitation component is 16%, demonstrating a viable project.



-35-
V. Recommendations
5.01      During credit negotiations, the following principal agreements were
reached with HMG:
(a) that on March 31 each year commencing on March 31, 1985, HMG will
inform the Association of the allocations proposed in the following
fiscal year for the purpose of maintaining the DOR's road network,
and taking into account the Association's comments, if any, ensure
that adequate funds are provided for that purpose (para 2.22);
(b) that the major bridge being constructed over the Rapti river on a
section of the East-West highway outside this proposed project and
being financed from other sources, will be finished by the time the
proposed project contracts are completed (para 3.04); and
(c) that all measures needed will be taken to minimize the
environmental effects on the Karnali Wildlife Reserve of the
construction and subsequent utilization of the 15 km section of
project road which passes through it, and that the National Parks
and Wildlife Conservation Office will be entrusted with the
responsibility for enforcing such measures (paras 3.06, 3.34-3.36).
5.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(a) that all conditions of effectiveness of the Saudi Fund
have been met (para 3.23);
(b) that the Project Implementationi Unit has been duly established
and the Project Manager appointed (para 3.24);
(c) that the consultants to supervise construction of the East-West
Highway have been selected (para 3.24); and
(d) that all licenses, permits and regulations providing for the
construction of about 15 km of road within the Karnali Wildlife
Reserve have been adopted and are legally binding (para 3.36).
5.03      The conditions 5.02 (c) and (d) have been met.  Subject to the
remaining conditions 5.02 (a) and (b) having been met, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$47.5 million on the
usual terms.



-36-                              TABLE 1
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
The National Highway Network and Estimated Growth
(Kilometers)
Year    Total Length    Department of Roads    Department17f Roads    Panchat
Bitumen       Gravel          Earth-              Earth-
1965       1,826            289           147             300               1,090
1967       2,430            536           344             320               1.230
1969       2,750            661           408             360               1,321
1971       2,810            934           486             206               1,184
1972       2,951         1,115            475             186               1,175
1973       3,016         1,356            318             166               1,176
1974       3,900          1,456           150             640               1,654
1975       4,179         1,540            219             800               1,620
1976       4,199         1,568            160             850               1,621
% Average Annual Growth Rate (1966-76)
8.2            15             0               16
1977       4,238         1,568            170           1,0002/             1,600
1978       4,595         1,851            593           2,151
1979       4,691         1,916            685           2,090
1980       4,940          2,044           564           2,332
1981       5,021         2,167            703           2,151
1982       5,270         2,322            719           2,229
1983       5,546          2,484           830           2,232
% Average Annual Growth Rate (1976-83)
3.8          6.8              28.5          17.4
1/ Many earth roads are only tracks. Earth roads are not shown on maps.
2/ Notional only--likely to increase gradually.
Source: Department of Roads and Mission Estimates
April 1984



TABLE 2
-37-
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles (1964-81)k/
Year           Jeeps and Cars            Trucks           Buses           Total
1964                2,362                1,352              290           4,004
1965                N.A.                N.A.                N.A.          N.A.
1966                3,761                1,834              426           6,021
1967                4,411                2,150              497           7,058
1968                5,142                2,534              561           8,237
1969                6,008                2,993              578           9,579
1970                6,649                3,072              541          10,262
1971                7,215                3,258              652          11,125
1972                7,810                3,627              713          12,150
1973                8,768                4,109              919          13,796
1974                9,611                4,612            1,021          15,244
1975                9,684                4,651            1,223          15,558
1976               11,526                5,848            1,484          18,858
1977               12,679                6,608            1,662          20,949
1978               14,201                7,987            2,001          24,189
1979               15,621                9,984            2,402          28,007
1980               17,183               11,980            2,882          32,045
1981               18,557               14,376            3,314          36,247
Average Annual Growth Rates in %
1964-75             13.6                 11.9             14.0            13.1
1970-75              7.8                  8.6             17.4             8.7
1975-80             12.2                 20.8             22.1            18.4
1980-81              8.0                 200()            15.0            13.1
1/  The number of vehicles registered in a given year is obtained by taking the
total in the previous year and adding the new vehicles registered during the
given year. No account is taken of scrapped vehicles.
Source: Department of Roads, 1983



-38-                            TABLE 3
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(NRs millions)
Investment Plan Comparisons
Fifth Highway Investment Planl/ Sixth Highway Investment Plan
Fifth Plan                         Sixth Plan
(1976-80)         %           (1980-81 - 1985-86)    %
Trunk Highway                   642.5        56.8              1,127.802/       37.34
Feeder Roads                    267.5        23.6                601.902/       19.93
Rural Integrated
Development Project                                            206.707         6.84
Urban Roads                      35.0         3.1                 30.00          0.99
Maintenance (Routine)            59.5          5.3               110.345         3.65
Bridges                          22.2         2.0                173.002/        5.73
Suspension Bridges               47.9         4.2                457.002/       15.13
Hill Trails                      30.0         2.6                 82.50          2.73
Road Development Study
& Survey                                                        33.39          1.10
Road Maintenance Equipment                                       100.00          3.31
Miscellaneous                    27.5          2.4                97.448         3.25
121321      7:100.0             .3,020.000      100.00
1/ Minimum Allocation
2/ Includes Periodic Maintenance and Emergency Repairs.
Source:  The Government's "Fifth Plan (1975-80)".
The Government's "Sixth Plan (1980/81-1985/86)
April 1984



NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures
(NRs millions)
1978/ 1979/ 1980/ 1981/ 1982/
Item                   1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977 1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
Administration          4.1   4.1    2.6   2.6   1.6   1.0   1.1   2.9   3.7   3.2  3.6  9.6  10.2  12.5  12.0  18.6
Routine Maintenance    3.0   3.0    2.5   3.5   3.9   6.0   8.0  14.7  19.5  22.3 24.5 17.0  18.0  19.0  20.0  25.0
Periodic and
Emergency
Maintenance                                                                           19.8 36.2  26.2  13.9  70.2 141.2
Construction                                                                           343.1 495.5 527.2 505.0 452.0 725.8
Subtotal (Periodic
Maintenance and
Construction)      78.5  84.8  105.3 216.6 163.0 168.4 180.2 210.2 251.4 170.7 362.9 531.7 553.4 518.9 522.2 867.0
TOTAL                85.6  91.9  110.4 222.7 168.5 175.4 189.3 227.8 274.5 196.2 391.0.558.3 581.6 550.4 554.2 910.6
Source:  Department of Roads and Ministry of Finance Budget Estimates
August 1984



NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Transport Revenue-
Item               1974        1975        1976      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82
Road Cess                    6,2         6.9         7.6       15.8         17.1
Vehicle Tax                  1.1         1.8         2.0         2.3          2.1         1.9          1.8          2.3
Customs from Vehicles        1,4         4.3         2.5                                34.9         38.0
Customs from Petroleum    25.7          28.5        15.6                                32.8         44.76
Customs from Diesel         16.9        17.1         909
Route Licenses              (1.2)-/      1.3         1.4
52.5       59.9        39.0
1/ Gross receipts.
2/ Assumed - data not available.
Source: Department of Custom and Department of Taxation.
April 1984
U'



-41-                         TABLE 6
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Design _St.andards
East-West Highway   Road Rehabilitation
Flat      Hilly       Flat       Hilly
Design Speed (kph)                         100         80         100         80
Width of Right of Way (m)                   50         50          50         50
Formation Width (m)                       .7.5        7.5           8 l/       8
Paved Width (m)                            :3.5 2/    3.5           6 1/       6
Ruling Gradient (%)                          5          6           6          8
Stopping Sight Distance (m)                :L20       120         120        120
Min. Radius Horizontal Curves (m)          475        210          90         50
Structural Design: "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges"
(The American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials) Loading HS 15
1/ Where this can be achieved.
2/ First stage of ultimate 6.Om paved width.
Source: Department of Roads
April 1984



-42-
Table 7
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Project Component
(NRs million)
Institution               Physical
Building and            Contingencies
East-West      Road            Road
Highway  Rehabilitation Maintenance   Total    Z          Amount
Investment Costs
a) civil works                914.4         228.0           -         1,142.4  11.0    125.6
b) equipment                    -              -          47.9           47.9   0.0       0.0
c) technical assistance         -              -          28.6           28.6   0.0       0.0
Total Baseline Costs            914.4          228.0        76.5        1,218.9  10.3    125.6
Physical Contingencies         91.4           34.2                      125.6   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies           362.1          99.7        26.3           488.2   9.4      45.9
Total Project Costs           1,368.0          361.9       102.8        1,832.7   9.4    171.6
Taxes                         164.2           43.4          -           207.6   9.9      20.6
Foreign Exchange            1,004.8         266.9        101.5        1,373.2   9.2    126.2
May 22, 1984



NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costa and Benefits for Major Agricultural Schemes in the Project Area (NRs million) - In 1981 Prices
MAHAIKALI                   HOHANA RIVER    KHUTIA RIVER   JANUAR NALA        BABAI            KUMBHER            ----  TOTAL-
---------Irrigation Scheme---            ---   Irrigation       Irrigation      Irrigation       Irrigation
Stage I       Stage II       Stage III      Scheme           Scheme          Scheme           Scheme           Cotton Scheme                  Net
Costs Benefits Costs Benefits Costs Benefits  Costs Benefits  Costs Benefits  Costs Benefits  Costs Benefits  Costs Benefits Costs Benefits Benefits
1983  10.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.40   3.50   15.40    3.50   -11.90
1984  10.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.40   6.80   33.40    6.80   -26.60
1985  31.50    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   11.00    1.10   24.00    2.00    0.00    0.00   21.00    0.00    4.60   8.50   92.10   11.60   -80.50
1986  23.50    1.20   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   13.10    3.90   26.10    8.10    0.00    0.00  103.20    0.00    5.60  12.10  171.50   23.30  -148.20
1987  22.30    7.40  43.70   0.00    0.00    0.00   15.20    7.50   19.20   10.30    0.00    0.00  141.20    1.52    7.40  17.00  248.00   43.72  -205.28
1988  20.80   18.80  31.20   9.70    0.00    0.00    7.20   11.30   10.30   15.10    0.00    0.00   98.40    6.08    9.20  21.90  177.10   80.68   -96.42
1989   2.30   24.10  31.70  21.90    0.00    0.00    7.20   14.80   10.30   20.10    0.00    0.00   59.20   14.58   13.70  32.20  124.40  127.46          3.06
1990   9.30   30.10  17.40  36.90    0.00    0.00    7.20   18.40   10.30   24.30   43.90    0.00   56.00   26.08   16.00  38.30  160.10  174.08    13.98
1991  11.10   34.80  20.80  42.20    0.00    0.00    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   66.70    0.00   94.40   40.00   14.00  38.30  224.50  205.60   -18.90
1992  12.50   37.40  24.30  47.70    0.00    0.00    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   66.70    0.00  144.80   57.12   14.00  38.30  279.80  231.02   -48.78
1993  13.40   38.70  27.90  53.40   50.20    0.00    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   26.20    3.70  145.60   79.12   14.00  38.30  294.80  263.72   -31.08
1994  15.60   39.00  31.50  58.90   63.90   24.90    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   30.40   10.00  114.40  106.08   14.00  38.30  287.30  327 88    40.38
1995  13.90   39.00  33.90  62.70   57.80   36.00    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   35.80   18.90   80.00  135.36   14.00  38.30  252.80  380.76   127.96
1996  13.90   39.00  35.10  64.40   55.20   50.50    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   42.70   30.40   80.00  163.36   14.00  38.30  258.40  436.46   178.06
1997  13.90   39.00  35.90  65.00   29.80   66.10    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   28.30   46.80   80.00  189.76   14.00  38.30  219.40  495.46   276.06   4,
1998  13.90   39.00  36.30  65.70   34.70   74.80    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   35.30   58.00   80.00  208.58   14.00  38.30  231.70  534.86   303.16
1999  13.90   39.00  36.20  66.30   39.60   83.90    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   42.40   71.60   80.00  221.36   14.00  38.30  243.60  570.96   327.36
2000  13.90   39.00  36.50  67.00   44.30   92.30    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   48.00   82.30   80.00  228.24   14.00  38.30  254.20  597.64   343.44
2001  13.90   39.00  37.00  67.70   48.00   88.80    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   52.10   90.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  262.50  615.06   352.56
2002  13.90   39.00  37.50  68.30   50.90  103.10    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  268.50  624.96   356.46
2003  13.90   39.00  38.20  69.10   51.90  104.60    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  270.20  627.26   357.06
2004  13.90   39.00  38.10  69.70   52.50  105.60    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  270.70  628.86   358.16
2005  13.90   39.00  38.40  70.40   52.30  106.70    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  270.80  630.66   359.86
2006  13.90   39.00  38.70  71.20   52.70  107.80    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  271.50  632.56   361.06
2007  13.90   39.00  39.60  71.80   53.10  108.90    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  272.80  634.26   361.46
2008  13.90   39.00  39.90  72.80   54.00  109.90    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  274.00  636.06   362.06
2009  13.90   39.00  39.90  73.30   54.80  111.00    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  274.80  637.86   363.06
2010  13.90   39.00  40.40  74.00   54.80  112.20    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  275.10  639.76   364.66
2011  13.90   39.00  40.70  74.80   55.00  113.30    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  275.80  641.66   365.86
2012  13.90   39.00  41.00  75.60   56.10  W14.40    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  277.20  643.56   366.36
2013  13.90   39.00  41.40  76.10   56.70  115.50    7.20   21.50   10.30   29.00   54.70   95.20   80.00  230.56   14.00  38.30  278.20  645.16   366.96
SOURCE: Project Reports and Study Estimates.



NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Costs and Benefits
Kohalpur-Mahakli Highway (East-West Highway)
(NRs Million)
Livestock   Power        Paper   Leather              Avoidable                     Subsis-   Road Con   Road
Agricultural Development Development Mill    Processing Solvent  Cost of    Savings Tourism  tence          -struction Maintenance Total       Total Net
Benefits     Project      Project     Project Industry   Industry Airlifting to RNAC Earnings Farminug   Costs          Costs       Benefits  Costs Benefits
1983   -11.90       0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       2.80      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00         -9.10     0.00   -9.10
1984   -26.60       0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00      2.80       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       83.00       0.00        -23.80    83.00 -106.80
1985   -80.50       1.40         0.00      -5.70      0.00       2.80      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      288.60       0.00        -82.00   289.60 -370.60
1986  -148.20       1.40         0.00     -22.90    -6.10       8.70       0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      345.60       0.00       -167.10   345.60 -512.70
1987  -205.28       1.40         0.00     -28.60    -6.80       8.70       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      218.40       0.00      -230.58   218.40 -448.98
1988   -96.42       6.00       -55.70      46.30      7.00      8.70       5.60      4.00     4.50      0.00       0.00       1.66        -70.02     1.66  -71.68
1989     3.06       6.00       -55.70      61.80    18.90        8.70      5.70      4.20     5.40      0.00       0.00       1.72         58.06     1.72   57.34
1990    13.98       6.00       -55.70       77.20    24.70      8.70       6.80     4.40      6.40     3.60        0.00       1.80         95.08     1.80   93.28
1991   -18.90       8.30        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       5.90      4.60     7.30     4.30        0.00       1.89        154.50     1.89  152.61
1992   -48.78      10.60        Z8.40       77.20    Z8.70      8.70       6.00     4.80      8.30     4.80        0.00       1.94        128.72     1.94  126.78
1993   -31.08      12.90        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       6.10      5.00     9.20      5.20       0.00       1.95        150.32     1.95  148.37
1994    40.38      15.20        28.40      77.20    28.70       8.70       6.20      5.20    10.10     5.70        0.00       1.96        225.78     1.96  223.82
1995   127.96      17.50        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      6.30      5.40    11.10      6.10       0.00       5.17        317.36     5.17  312.19
1996   178.06      19.60        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       6.40      5.60    12.00     6.50        0.00       5.45        371.16     5.45  365.71  4-
1997   276.06      21.70        28.40      77.20    28.70       8.70       6.50      5.80    13.00     7.00        0.00       5.71       473.06      5.71  467.35
1998   303.16      23.80        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       6.60      6.00    14.30      7.40       0.00       6.03        504.26     6.03  498.23
1999   327.36      25.90        28.40      77.20    28.70       8.70       6.70      6.20    15.70     9.40        0.00       6.38        534.26     6.39  527.87
2000   343.44      28.00        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      6.70      6.40    17.30      8.30       0.00       2.01        553.14     2.01  551.13
2001   352.56      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      6.80      6.60    19.00      8.70       0.00       2.07        566.76     2.07  564.69
2002   356.46      30.10        28.40       77.20    Z8.70      8.70       6.90      6.80    20.90     9.20        0.00       2.12        573.36     Z.12  571.24
2003   357.06      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      7.00      7.00    20.90      9.70       0.00       2.17        574.76     2.17  572.59
2004   358.16      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       7.10      7.20    20.90    10.10        0.00       2.22        576.56     2.22  574.34
2005   359.86      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      7.20      7.40    20.90    10.50        0.00       2.27        578.96      2.27  576.69
2006   361.06      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      7.30      7.60    20.90    11.00        0.00       2.32        580.96     2.32  578.64
2007   361.46      30.10        2S.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      7.40      7.80    20.90    11.40        0.00       5.70        582.06     5.70  576.36
2008   362.06      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       7.50      8.00    20.90    11.80        0.00       5.45        583.36     5.45  577.81
2009   363.06      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      7.60      8.20    20.90    12.30        0.00       5.71        585.16     5.71  579.45
2010   364.66      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       7.70      8.40    20.90    12.70        0.00       6.03        587.46     6.03  581.43
2011   365.86      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       7.80      8.60    20.90    13.20        0.00       6.38        589.46     6.39  583.07
2012   366.36      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70      8.70       7.90      8.80    20.90    13.60        0.00       2.01        590.66     2.01  588.65
2013   366.96      30.10        28.40       77.20    28.70       8.70      8.00      9.00    20.90    14.00    -280.70        2.07        591.96  -278.63  870.58
NOTE: ERR - 14%
H9
a



-45-
Table 10
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Results of the Economic Analyses of Bridge Replacement Proposals
Assumed                 Internal  Net Present
Remaining  Economic   Rate of   Value                                   Break
Life        Cost (i)   Return    (NR '000)    Benefit-Cost Ratio  Even(ii)
Bridge               (Years)     (NR '000)  (%)         10%            8%      10%    12%   Year
Khatripauwa             5          1,846       21.0          743       1.60   1.48   1.38   1993
Naubise                 5          1,619       22.7          767       1.69   1.57   1.46   1994
Sambhari                3         12,373       15.9        1,352       1.18   1.13   1.08   1S987
Chure                   5          4,768       13.6          592       1.24   1.15   1.07   1990
Amlekhgunj No. 4        5          3,991       14.9          669       1.30   1.20   1.11   19I90
Jitpur                  5          2,619       16.3          578       1.37   1.27   1.17   1991
Combined Baghjhora
Amlekhgunj No. 3
(ALT.B)                 -          5,424       14.7       1,512        1.53  1.34    1.18    --
Notes:
(i) Includes design, construction and supervision.
(ii) Represents the latest year in which a structure could become
unseviceable and still yields a positive net return on the
investment proposed.



-46-
Table 11
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Sensitivity Analyses
Costs 15% Greater
Costs 15%       Benefits 25%    and Benefits 25%
----- Base-----   ---Greater ----    -----Lower-              Lower
NPV @             NPV @              NPV @                 NPV @
Bridge              IRR (%)  10%       IRR (%)  10%      IRR (%)  10%       IRR (%)      10%
Khatripauwa           21.0    734       17.0      514     18.5      557      14.6         328
Naubise               22.7    767       18.6      564     19.9      581      15.9         337
Sambhari              15.9   1352        9.2    -191      15.4    1214        8.7        -328
Chure                 13.6    592       10.0       -4     12.4      377       8.7        -219
Amlekhgunj No. 4      14.9    669       11.1      170     13.4      454       9.7         -45
Jitpur                16.3    578       12.6      251     14.6      409      10.9          82
Combined Amlekhgunj
No. 3 and Baghjhora
(ALT.B)               14.7   1512       12.4     845      11.1      334       9.0        -333
Notes:
(i) The cost of the permanent replacement after a structure becomes
unserviceable (which is treated as a benefit in the analysis) has not
been reduced by 25% as it is directly related to the capital cost of
the project.
(ii) Net Present Values (NPV) expressed in NR '000.



NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY -ROJECT
Summary of_Economic & Sensitivity Analyses
Improvement on Hetauda-Birganj Road
Road Section      Internal         Net Present Value (NR Millions)         Benefit - Cost Ratio
Road     S c i nRate    of              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Return (X)              8%        10%   @  12%            0 8%   e  10%  @  12%
Hetauda -  Birganj    15.4                   65       40         20              1.73    1.46    1.25
Capital Cost               Benefits 25%             Capital costs 25%
Road Section                  Base             25% Greater                BeGreater and Benefits
25% Greater   Lower                   ~~~~25% Lower
IRR (%) NPV 0 10%   IRR (%)  NPV e 10%    IRR (%)    NPV @ 10%              IRR (X)   NPV @ 10%
Hetauda -   Birganj    15.4         65         12.1        18         12.1          15                9.2        - 7
i
1-3
0
I-a



TABLE 13
-48-
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Reported Road Accidents
Naubise-NIugling Road
vear   Reported           Accidents          Total       No. of Vehicles Seriously
*ear   Accidents         With Deaths         Deaths    Damaged or Destroyed
1980       9                  6                16                   10
1981      13                  9                 12                  16
1982      14                 11                 16                  15
Source:   Zonal Police Office (Bagmati) - Kathmandu.



_ 49-
TABLE 14
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Economic-Analyses
Naubise-Mugling Road
Improvement             Internal        Net Present Value        Benefit - Cost Ratio
Proposal                Rate of           (NR Millions)                              --
Return (%)    @ 8%   @ 10%   @ 12   -    8%   @ 10%   @ 12%'
Alternative A
* Without Diverted
Traffic Benefits    16.8            134       84     47       2.05   1.70    1.41
* With Diverted
Traffic Benefits    16.9            136       86     49       2.06   1.71    1.42
Alternative B
*  Without Diverted
Traffic Benefits    17.8            184     119      71       2.24   1.84    1.53
* With Diverted
Traffic Benefits    18.1            191     125      75       2.29   1.88    1.56



NEPAL
THIIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sutmnary of Sensitivity Analyses
_aubise-Mugling Road
Base             Traffic Growth 5%                                                       Capital Costs 25%
Throughout               25% Greater            25%  Lower           Benefits 25d Lower
IRR (%)  NPV @ 10%    IRR (%)  NPV @ 10%    IRR (%)  NPV @ 10%    IRR (%)  NPV @ 10%    IRR (%)  NPV @ 10%
Alternative B
No Diverted
Traffic
Benefits          17.8         184         16.0         84         14.8        84          14.7        67           12.0        31
Note:.    Net present value expresed in NR millions.  For entire road length.



NEPAL
PROPOSED THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Breakdvwn of Road Maintenance Equipment l1oldings and Requirements
Serial                                    33 Dist. 11 Zonal   6 Mech.   11 Mech.  5 Regional.  Total  Present             No.   Unit Cost       Total
No. 1          Description                 Offices   Offices  Divisions  Sections   Offices    Needs  Holdings  Needed              US$         Cost
1     Wheel Dozer (175 hp)                            11    .i                                                5        6       65,000       390,000
2     Motor Grader (120 hp)                           11                                           11         8        3       45,000       135,000
3     Mobile Crane (10-ton)                                       6                                 6          2        4      70,000       280,000
4     Lowloader                                                   6                                 6          2        4      45,000       180,000
5     Flat Bed Truck (16/20-ton)                                  6                                 6          2        4      30,000       120,000
6     Flat Bed Truck (7-ton)                          11                                           11          4        7      17,000       119,000
7     Tipper Trucks (5 cyd)                 99        11                                          110       102        8       22,000       176,000
8     Water Tanker (6000 1)                           22                                           22         15        7      25,000       175,000
9     Flat Rollers (8-10 ton)               33                                                     33        27        6       26,000       156,000
10     PT Rollers (8-16 ton)                           11                                           11          7       4       30,000       120,000
11     Vibrating Rollers S/P (4-ton)                                                       5         5         -         5      30,000       150,000
12     Hand Compactors                       33                                                     33         4       29         1,500       43,500
13     Portable Drills                       33                                                     33        31        2         1,500        3,000
14     Small Dumpers (1 cyd)                 33                                                     33         10      23        5,000       115,000
15     Pick-up with Crew Cab                 33       1.1          6          11                    61        42       19        9,000       171,000
16     Inspection Vehicle 4wd                                                             15        15          3      12       10,000       120,000
17     Motorcycle (125 cc)                  132         6          6                               144        106      38         1,000       38,000   d
18     Mobile Workshop                                             6                                 6          -        6      60,000       360,000    1
19     Service Vehicle                                             6                                 6          -        6      40,000       240,000
20     Vibrating Roller (ped)                          22                                           22         11       11        6,500       71,500
21     Bitumen Distributor (5000 1)                                                        6         6          4        2      26,000        52,000
22     Bitumen Heater                                  11                                            11         6        5        5,500       27,500
23     SSB Transceivers                                11                                  5        16          -       16        3,500       56,000
24     Generators 5KUA                                 22                                           22         14        8        2,000       16,000
25     Concrete Mixers 14110                           11                                            11         -       11        8,500       93,500
26     Poker Vibrators                                 22                                           22          -       22          500       11,000
27     Water Pumps 4"                                  11                                           11          -       11          750        8,500
1   TOTAL                   3,427,500
Materials Laboratory
Miscellaneous Workshop Tools and
equipment and microcomputer             52,500
TOTAL                  3,500,000
I-



-52-                            ANNEX 2
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Synopsis of Proposed Staff Training
The proposed training components have the objectives of upgrading
-DOR staff concerned with: (i) planning, programming and evaluating
projects; (ii) design and construction; and (iii) workshop practices and
equipment cperation. Estimates of the numbers of staff to be trained and
their specialities follow:
a)   Highway Prolect Management for Senior Staff in construction
planning and management, probablv for about four months.
Three candidates,                                    12 man-months
b)   Quality Control Techniques for graduate staff in setting up and
operating materials laboratories, testing procedures and
interpretation and application of results. Courses of six
months for 15 candidates,                            90 man-months
c)   Bridge and Foundation Design for assistant and executive engineers,
assuming a basic knowledge of Theory of Structures Soil Mechanics.
Trainees should learn modern construction and design techniques,
probably through attachment to a large design office, plus short
specialist courses over a six-month period. Six candidates,
36 man-months
d)   Traffic Engineering for executive or assistant engineers, which
should cater for methods and practices appropriate to Nepal.
A one-vear M.Sc. course might be suitable such as those offered
by Leeds or Birmingham Universities in England. Five candidates
for 12 months,                                      60 man-months
e)   Transport Planning to give a working knowledge of transport
planning, transport costs and transport economics at graduate
level.  Three trainees for one year each,           36 man-months
f)   Mechanical Inventory Control and Spares MIanagement for staff at
technician level in planning, management and operation of the
procurement of equipment and spare parts, and inventory control.
A period of two months' attachment to an operational organization
should suffice.  Five trainees for two months    10 man-months
g)   Workshop Management and TechnologS for mechanical engineers
at graduate level in the operation and management of servicing
and maintaining a plant and vehicle fleet. In-service training
probably for three months. Five trainees for three months,
15 man-months
h)   Construction Equipmnent Management for graduate mechanical/civil
engineers in the organization and utilization of mechanical
equipment on work sites and its proper maintenance.  Two trainees
for three months each,                               6 man-months



-53-
ANNEX 3
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
MRM Kohalpur Mahakali Construction Road
Published on 21 Nov. 1983 at Nepal Rajpatra (Gazatte)
Name of the Board:-  Mahandra Raj Marg (Kohalpur-Mahakali) Construction
Development Board 1983.
BOARD MEMBERS
(A)  Hon. Minister, Works and Transport                          Chairman
(B)  Hon. Asst. Minister, Works and Transport                    Deputy Chairman
(C)  Meembers of Rastiya Panchyat & District
Panchvat Chairmen of four concerned districts             Member
(D)  Secretary, Ministry of Works & Transport                    Do
(E)  Chief Engineer, D.O.R.                                      Do
(F)  Representative (equivalent to Joint Secretary)
Ministry of Finance                                       Do
(G) Representative (equivalent to Joint Secretary)
Ministry of Law & Justice                                 Do
(H) Representative (equivalent to Joint Secretary)
National Planning Commission                              Do
(I)  Zonal Engineers of two Regions                              Do
(J)  Project Manager                                             Member cum Secretary



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CAIENDARWAR         1                     1984   S                    1985                             _                         1987                         18               _                    _
19a3t                        1985                         1986                         1987                         1968                         19S9                 1990
IDA FISC YEAR 9 QUARlER                                                                   -m                                                                               r _                    4 _,      _ _      _ . -._____
1 2j          3                                                                                         4                     2 3  4123412 [34_2 _ 4 __L12
Evaluate Prequal. & Invite Ide-edis
Bidding
A Eota,Wst Highway Construction                                Fvaluate & Award Contracts
Mobilize                                                Construction
___I
Rectualltv Controctors
Chisaioonl Bm-Jg Consucinr Btdn
Evolucste &
I Award'        Mobilize                                  Construction
Design  Bid Docurnents                                   I
B. Road Rehclitaflon                                                                         Evaluate & Award
Constnuction
Prepare Specs &
Bid Documents
C. Equ prent Procurement                                                                Evaluate Bids & Award
Procurement
Arrange Programs
D. Technical Assistance and Training                                                                                                 implement
Word Bank - 25169



-55-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Land Acquisition Act 2034 (Extracts)
1. His Majesty's Government can acquire any land for its use after paying
compensation.
2. The Project Manager must take preliminary action after decision is
taken by the Government.
3. Preliminary Action
Notice for the acquisition to be published at public places, Panchyat
offices, on compound walls and houses (those to be acquired).
4. Three days after such notice, the officer can enter into the premises
for drawings, maps, fix boundaries, take sample, etc. required for
acquisition.
5. The officer has to fix the compensation for damage done to the existing
houses, walls, trees, crops, etc. in addition to the land.
6. If owner is not satisfied, he can make a claim to the local authority
(CDO) within 15 days.
7. Within 15_days the Project Manager has to submit the report of his
preliminary action to the C.D.O. including the compensation of damage
to standing properties.
8. C.D.O. on receipt of the preliminary action report will take action as
under:
a) Notice to be issued to local offices, land reform office, CDO offices,
Panchyats etc. about the acquisition, its purpose, land or houses,
location, orientation, etc.
b) The owner must produce their legitimate documents about ownership of
the property within 15 days.
c) The period within which the owner is required to take his belongings
like crops materials, etc.
9. The owner is entitled to lodge protest against the decision as above within
7 days.
10. The Anchaladish is entrusted as judge and must decide the case with 15 days.



-56-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Hand Over of Land
1. On completion of the above procedure, the local authority will acquire
land and hand over the same to the concerned office and report HMG accordingly.
2. If owner of the property has to vacate his house, 50% of the compensation
fixed has to be handed over to him before he is asked to leave.
Compensation Committee
1. Chief District Officer
2. Land, Reform Officer or Revenue Officer
3. Project Manager
4. District Panchyat Representative
Normal period required for the full process:   3 months.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
|Calendar I Fiscal I        East-West Highway                                                                            TA &
Year and  Year and          incl. Feeder Roads         Chisapani Bridge        Road Rehabilitation        Equipment Tr aining          Cumulative Disbursements
jQater                 %   SF%  IDA   HMG  Total  %   ODA  IDA  HMG Total    %   IDA    %  IDA    SF    IDA    ODA                                          HMG  Total
11984  1   1984  3
2          4
3   19115  1
11985  1          3                                                         
2          4   15  4.60  3.98  2.06 10.641                                                        I           I          J  4.60   3.98             2.06   10.64
3  11986  1   20  6.14  5.31  2.74 14.19 4                                                                       6  0.151  6.14   5.46              2.74   14.34
4  1       2 1 25  7.68  6.63  3.43 17.741                          1 10  1.97 0.23 0.07  2.271 j               12  0.30   7.68   7.16   1.97   3.50   20.31
11986  1  1       3 1 30  9.22  7.96  4.11 21.291                           1 15  2.96 0.35 0.10  3.411 15   0.621 18  0.45   9.22   9.38   2.96   4.21   25.77 I
2          4   35 10.75  9.28  4.81 24.841                          1 18  3.55 0.42 0.12  4.091 25   1.031 25  0.631 10.75  11.36   3.55   4.93   30.59
3   1987  1   40 12.29 10.61  5.48 28.381 15  1.81 0.54  2.351 24  4.74 0.55 0.17  5.461 35   1.441 31  0.781 12.29  15.19   4.74   6.19   38.41
4          2   45 13.82 11.94  6.17 31.931 20  2.41 0.72  3.131 30  5.92 0.69 0.21  6.821 45   1.851 37  0.931 13.82  17.82   5.92   7.10   44.66
11987  1  1       3 1 50 15.36 13:26  6.86 35.481 25  3.01 0.90  3.911 37  7.30 0.85 0.26  8.411 55   2.271 43  1.081 15.36  20.47   7.30   8.02   51.15
2          4   60 18.43 15.92  8.23 42.581 30  3.61 1.08  4.691 45  8.88 1,04 0.31 10.231 65   2.681 50  1.251 18.43  24.50   8.88   9.62   61.43
3   1988  1   65 19.97 17.24  8.91 46.12  35  4.21 1.26  5.47  55 10.86 1.27 0.38 12.51  75   3.091 56  1.401 19.97  27.21  10.86  10.55   68.59
4          2 1 75 23.04 19.90 10.28 53.22  40  4.82 1.44  6.26  66 13.03 1.52 0.46 15.01  85   3.50  62  1.55  23.04  31.29  13.03  12.18   79.54
1988  1          3   80 24.58 21.22 10.97 56.771 50  6.02 1.80  7.821 78 15.40 1.80 0.54 17.74  95   3.91  68  1.701 24.58  34.65  15.40  13.31   87.94
2          4   85 26.11 22.55 11.66 60.321 60  7.22 2.16  9.38  90 17.77 2.08 0.62 20.471100   4.12  75  1.881 26.11  37.85  17.77  14.44   96.17
3   1989  1   90 27.65 23.88 12.33 63.861 70  8.43 2.52 10.95  92 18.16 2.13 0.63. 20.921                4.12  81  2.031 27.65  40.59  18.16  15.48  101.88
4          2   95 29.48 25.20 13.03 67.411 80  9.63 2.88 12.51  95 18.75 2.19 0.66 21.601                4.121 87  2.181 29.18  43.32  18.75  16.53  107/82
11989  1          3   97 29.80 25.73 13.30 68.83  90 10.84 3.24 14.08  98 19.34 2.26 0.68 22.28                  4.12  93  2.33  29.80  45.28  19.34  17.19  111.64
2          4  100 30.72 26.53 13.71 70.961100 12.04 3.60 15.64 100 19.74 2.31 0.69 22.741                4.121100  2.501 30.72  47.50  19.74  18.00  115.96



-58-                                  ANNEX  7
Nooerve Isues. - lobsliur - Mahakali Section of RX.1.
An per letter' 1. 2704/040 dt, 2040/12/7 froa Xithaandu Wild Life Read
0fflee an &S POT the resolutious taken at a settin belt oa 24th
February 1983 in the office of the Roaurable Minister of State,
Ministry of Works and Transport, protestive  eeaurs to be taken
ia te Karnali Wildlife Conservation area d#uazinc read aoentretion
are as uasers-
(1)   light of way requoaid for construction of the road to be kept to
the minimum.
(2)   Minima number of trees to be felled.
(3)   Uathr fer embaskeent fillings to be transported frm outaite the
Wildlife area.
(4)   Conataetion works to be Iisited between dawn te tuwk.
(5)   Se "aps fer labourers and offices to be pemitted within the
beerwe area.
(6)   Ne usnerpassee  is required on the  igbvay sine. free movesent for
anisals will be allowed on Highways. However, right of war for
-anial and birs will be maintained iaside Reserve Area.
(7)   Te prevent paohting and other damaging activities, training am
scholarships uqu.valet1e to Ke.ters degree in Wild Life ub e4ot
is proposed to further strengthen the exsting trained manpower.
(8)   Protective measures like Ban on night driving, upoed liit ate.
to be *eforee&
(9)   lesettlemnt of Aaaini village to some other place by paing dua
eempema-tion and to casmro no future  pontamous eclonisation withln
boundaries of the Reserve.
(10)  go feaning Ls required excspt st sast of Rabal where the "rd
alignment coincides with the boundary of the Rseaerv.
(11)  Apart frm a connesting "ad between Asraini, Thakurdwars and
rothiyahat (near Indian Border) radio comunimatiot aonogt all
ontry and zit points of Reserve area, fhaakurdvare ( Park's Eq )
amd Katkuadu Wild Life Read Office is aenasidlret wery eosential.
4  ,.k._. <                 ..
~~rr ~ ~



ANNEX 8
-59--                      Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL BENEFIT
Subsistence Farming Areas
Basic Assumptions
It is estimated that there are around 136,000 ha of cultivated land
outside the agriculture and irrigation project areas. The following
assumptions are made about the development of this land:
(i)  that following the construction of the road both the changes
in the cropping pattern and extension of the farmed areas would
take place faster. Additionally there will be an increase
in cropping intensity and yields due to the greater ease of
providing extension services and other necessary farm inputs.
The improvements to full development will take place over a
period of 15 years.
(ii)  that the area of influence of the road will include the
whole northern part of the project area between the road
and the foothills plus an area some 10 km wide on the
southern side between the road and the Nepal/India border.
Cropping Pattern
Cropping patterns are estimated separately for the four districts in
the project area after taking into consideration the existing constraints
and the objectives of HMG's policy. Paddy will continue to be the dominant
crop in all the districts thus taking into account its traditional position,
marketing prospects and farmers' attitudes. Wheat comes second after paddy
according to the Government's policy and to the farmers' previous response
to the introduction of wheat in their cropping pattern. Mustard, being a
cash crop and a major source of fat in the Nepalese diet, will still have an
important place in the crop program. Newly introduced crops are cotton and
sugar cane which satisfy the intention of developing cash crop production
with good market potential.



-60-
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
ESTIMATED CROPPING PATTERNS IN THE STUDY AREA
(Percentages)
--Kanchanpur a---   ---- Kailai----   -----BardiBanke----
Now   Future a/   Now   Future a/   Now   Future a/  Now   Future a/
Paddy      66.2   66.0         79.3   68.0         58.0   67.0        67.7   68.0
Wheat      22.9   25.0         15.3   20.0          6.4   20.0        14.4   23.0
Maize      17.2   15.0         19.8   15.0         22.3   20.0        18.5   15.0
Mustard   12.3   10.0          15.1   10.0         18.1   10.0         5.5    6.0
Pulses      -       7.8         -       8.0         -       8.0        -       8.0
Cotton      -       -           -       5.0         -      10.0        -      10.0
Sugar Cane -       15.0         -      15.0         -       -          -       -
Miscell.   2.5    6.0           3.2    4.0          1.9    6.0         3.9    6.0
Cropping
Intensity  1.21   1.45          1.33   1.45         1.07   1.41        1.10   1.36
a/  Future at full development with the road.
Source:  Agricultural Statistics of Nepal and Feasibility Study Estimates.
Yields
There has been no increase in yields of the main crops in the project
area over the past decade. The increase in total production that has
occurred is due solely to an increase in the area under cultivation.
Otherwise the prevailing Low level of agricultural techonolgoy, inadequate
input and credit supplies, lack of marketing services, poor extension
services and inadequate Land ownership structure all combine to restrict
agricultural development in the subsistence sector.
Estimated yields at present are given in the table below. It is
assumed that with the road yields ca be raised by 1 per cent in 5 years on
existing cultivated land and by 2 per cent in 5 years on land which is newly
cleared from forest, given the corresponding inputs.



-61-
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
ESTIMATED CROP YIELDS IN THIS STUDY AREA
Crop                                   Tons per ha
Local paddy                                 1.5
HYV paddy                                   2.2
Wheat                                        1.05
Maize                                        1.4
Mustard                                     0.6
Cotton                                      1.0
Pulses                                      0.5
Sugar cane                                 15.0
Miscellaneous                               0.4
Source: Agricultural Statistics of Nepal and Feasibility Study Estimates
Benefits
The measurement of benefits differentiates between land which is
presently under cultivation and new land which will be opened up for
agriculture as a result of forest clearance, population growth and settlement
schemes. This allows a more realistic assessment of the time scale for
developing new land; it also allows for the variation in yields expected
between existing cultivated land, where nutrient levels are depleted, and new
land which is inherently more fertile.
The following procedure is used for calculating benefits on both
existing farmland and future farmland:
(i) Determine the existing cropping pattern in each district in
accordance with the national agricultural statistics.
(ii) Estimate the changes in cropping pattern that are expected
by Year 15 under the improved conditions expected with the
road. The estimates are based on experience gained from
other agricultural schemes in Nepal plus the declared
priorities of Government policy.
(iii) Estimate the area of land influenced by the road.
(iv) Apply the 'with road' cropping patterns estimated in (ii) to
the area of land influenced by the road as estimated in (iii),
using an improved capacity intensity of 1.4.
(v) Obtain the estimated cropping pattern for the area influenced
by the road.



-62-
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
(vi) Multiply the figures for cropped areas by the estimated yields
to obtain estimates of production in the 'with road' situations.
(vii) Calculate the value of production using the following prices:
NRs per ton
Paddy                               2,200
Wheat                               2,730
Maize                               2,180
Mustard                             3,690
Pulses                              4,900
Cotton                              8,500
Sugar cane                            210
Miscellaneous                       2,300
With the exception of sugar cane, these are economic prices taken
from the Mahakali Stage I report. The sugar cane price is updated from the
figure used in the pre-feasibility study. The following table shows an
example of the procedures adopted in calculating the benefits.



-63-
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 5
Estimated Present and Future Cropping Areas in Kanchanpur District
Excluding the Area Covered by the Mahakali and Mohana River Irrigation Schemes
(In hectares)
Now                                       Year 15
--- With Road ----
Without        Area           Area not
Estimated Cultivation         Road          I]nfluenced   Influenced    Total
Local paddy      12,013        7,829           4,025         3,512         7,537
HYV paddy          1,115       6,298           4,877         2,825         7,702
Wheat              5,075       4,362           2,846         1,957         4,803
Maize              3,774       3,929           2,357         1,762         4,119
Mustard           2,727        3,062            1,704        1,374         3,078
Cotton             -             260              218          117            335
Pulses               385       1,444           1,051           648         1,699
Sugar                 15         260              218          117            335
Miscellaneous    3,784         1,444              834          648         1,482
Cropped Area    28,888        28,888          18,130        12,960        31,090
Physical Area   23,750       23,750           12,950        10,800
Cropping in-
tensity          1.2          1.2             1.4           1.2
New Cultivation
Local paddy                    3,610           3,450          -            3,450
HYV paddy                      2,904           4,180          -            4,180
Wheat                          2,011           2,440          -            2,440
Maize                          1,811           2,020          -            2,020
Mustard                        1,412            1,461         -            1,461
Cotton                           120              187         -               187
Pulses                           666             901          -              901
Sugar                            120             186          -              186
Miscellaneous                    666              715         -               715
Cropped Area                  13,320          15,540          -           15,540
Physical Area                 11,100          11,100          -           15,540
Cropping intensity             1.2             1.4           1.2
Source: Agricultural Statistics and Feasibility Study Estimates



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 7
-64-
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development Project Benefits in the Road Influence Areas
This annex examines the magnitude of the benefits likely to accure
to specific major development projects in the influence areas of the road.
These projects are: (i) Banke/Bardiya Livestock Development; (ii) Extension
of Power Transmission Line; (iii) Paper Mill; and (iv) Integrated Leather
Processing Plant.
(i) Banke/Bardiya Livestock Project
The Livestock Development Project, funded through the Asian
Development Bank, is valued at NR21 million. It encompasses two separate
areas, the largest and most important being in the Janakpur Zone and the
smaller component in the Banke/Bardiya districts. The project aims to
improve animal health and concentrates on the increased production of milk
and meat from buffalo and goats.
Regarding milk collection and marketing in the Nepalgunj area, the
lack of infrastructure, principally roads, was found to greatly reduce the
amount of milk available for collection (through the project). This factor
of collection is critical to the effectiveness and viability of the project.
Because the "catchment" area for the milk includes all of the Bardiya and
Banke Districts, it is estimated that more than two-thirds of the potential
production is affected by the project road. This is due to the critical
importance of regular and timely collection. Discussions with project staff
suggest that the total milk available for collection and sale in Nepalgunj
could be substantially reduced without the project road.
The estimated cost of milk production and the projected volume of
milk sales are as follows:
Value and Cost of Milk Production
NR/liter 1/
Value of Milk at Nepalgunj                                   5.00
Production cost on farm                                      1.75
Collection and Chilling Cost (average)                       0.50
Net Value                                                    2.75
Source:  "Appraisal of the Livestock Development Project in Nepal",
November 1979, Asian Development Bank.
1/ Economic costs in 1982 prices.



-65-
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 7
Milk Production in the Nepalgunj Area
Year
1985-88    1990    1995    2001
Milk collected by the Project for
Urban sale ('000 liters) with the
project road:                             500      2,190   6,380  10,950
The investment in the milk production plant has already been made
except for the remaining months in 1984. For this reason, this cost has been
treated as a sunk cost. The estimated production in the initial years is
estimated to be low at 500,000 liters p.a. due to the collection problem
until the completion of the project road in 1988. The estimated benefits
from the sale of milk would amount to NRs6 million in 1985-88 increasing to
NRslO million in 1992 and NRs3O million in 2001 (Table 9).
(ii) Extension of Power Transmission Line
The extension of a 132 KVA power transmission line is presently being
carried out from Butwal to Nepalgunj. This extension will place all major
centers in the Terai, east of Nepalgunj, within the country's central power
grid. Completion of this work is expected to be accomplished by 1987,
following which the final section between Nepalgunj and Mahendranagar is
scheduled to proceed.
This extension of the power grid to the western Terai and hill
regions is considered, together with adequate road access, as the major
stimulant to development of these areas. Indeed, the Nepal Industrial
Development Corporation (NIDC) has cited the lack of adequate and reliable
power to the centers of Nepalgunj, Bireniiranagar, Dhangarhi, Mahendranagar
and Dandeldhura as the primary obstacle to the establishment of small- and
medium-scale industries at these locations.
The Electricity Department has estimated the cost of extending the
power grid west from Nepalgunj at about NR167 million (economic costs). At
present the Department is carrying out the feasibility study for this planned
investment but, based upon preliminary evaluation, is confident of the very
high rate of return it will yield, even when measured solely on savings in
diesel fuel costs and the importation of power from India.
A basic assumption in the Department's cost estimate is that the
right of way of the project road will be followed and that the new road will
provide easy access for construction and subsequent maintenance. Should the
new road not be useable at the time of the planned start for the power line
extension, the design alignment of the road would be followed in order to



-66-
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 7
facilitate future inspection and maintenance. Construction costs will
obviously be higher and the construction period longer as the need to cut
bush, construct support towers and string line away from an existing road
will necessitate the portage of materials over some distance under difficult
conditions.
A summary of estimated costs and benefits from the
Nepalgunj-Mahendranagar Power Line Extension Project is as follows:
Summary of Costs and Benefits for the Nepalgunj-Mahendranagar
Power Line Extension
(In Million Rupees) 1/
Year             Capital Cost           Maintenance Cost          Benefits
1988                55.7
1989                55.7
1990                55.7                      -                       -
1991                                         2.1                    30.5
1992                                         2.1                    30.5
1993                                         2.1                    30.5
1994 & beyond                                2.1                    30.5
1/  All costs and benefits in economic terms at 1982 prices.
(iii) Paper Mill
A US$4 million credit has been approved by the Asian Development Bank
for the construction of a paper mill at Bhuarikanako Danda in the Banke
District. The credit also includes funding for managerial and technical
training for the staff of the plant which will be built on a turnkey basis.
It is anticipated that construction of the plant will begin in 1984 and that
paper production will commence in early 1988 by the newly-formed company,
Nepal Paper Industries Ltd. (NPIL).
The catchment area for the paddy straw and Sabai grass, the latter
being the prime raw materials in the production process, will come from the
districts of Kailai, Bardiya, Banke, Sallyan and Dandeukhuri. Without the
project road, the flow of the raw material will be seriously affected. It
has been estimated that at least 50% of the total material needed will not be
forthcoming due to the absence of the project road improvement.
From the ADB project appraisal document (November 1982), the
following data have been extracted in order to estimate the benefits
obtainable from the paper mill project.



-67-
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 7
Import price of paper (NR/ton)             15,000 1/
Production cost (NR/ton)                    7,200 1/
Net Benefit (NR/ton)                        7,800
Planned production (ton/year)
1988                               5,940
1989                               7,920
1990 and beyond                    9,900
1/  Economic costs in 1982 prices.
These benefits do not include the loss of income to Nepalese as a
result of smaller purchases of Sabai grass (it was estimated in the appraisal
report that a total of 8,700 farmers would benefit from the project when it
is in full production). It also does not include the loss of savings in
foreign exchange possible under the project (the total foreign exchange
savings were valued at an estimated US$9 million per annum).
(iv) Integrated Leather Industry
HMG has long been interested in the establishment of a leather
processing industry in the Far West. Indeed, the Industrial Services Center
carried out an inhouse feasibility study of a tannery at Nepalgunj and
demonstrated the economic viability of such an undertaking. This was
followed by a consultant's study, (PRAM Associates, October 1982), which
examined an integrated leather industry including collection, tanning,
finishing and leather craft. This, too, was shown to be highly viable. In
both studies, however, the lack of road infrastructure was cited as being
the most important constraint to the proposed undertaking. The inadequacy
of the road network, in particular, the link between Nepalgunj and the
important livestock area to the west, is seen as a crucial obstacle to the
implementation of the project. Of the total skins and hides planned for
collection, nearly 80% would be accessible through the new road.
During recent Ministerial-level talks between HMC and the Government
of Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia expressed an interest in providing funds for the
leather project. It is highly likely, however, that a decision not to
proceed with the East-West Highway improvement will result in an indefinite
postponement of the leather project.
Based upon the feasibility study by PRAM Associates, the following
costs and benefits were estimated:



-68-
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 7
Cost and Benefits - Integrated Leather Industry 1/
(NR Million) (1982 Prices)
Capital          Operating                         Net
Year            Cost             Cost             Revenues          Benefits
(1986) 0         6.1                -                -               (6.1)
1       11.8                3.8              8.8             (6.8)
2        4.2                6.8             18.0              7.0
3        0.4                9.7             30.0             19.9
4                          10.1             34.8             24.7
5 and                      10.1             38.8             28.7
future years
!/ Costs and benefits in economic terms.
(v) Solvent Industry
Cyan Industries recently commenced operation of a solvent plant at
Dhangarhi in the Kailali District. The facility processes Sal seed and rice
bran into solvents which are used in soap production for sale to India. The
growing area for the Sal seed consists of the districts of Kanchanpur,
Kailali, Bardiya, Banke and Dangdeukhuri.
The management of Gyan Industries has reported that the
inaccessiblity of the Sal areas of Dhangarhi necessitates the transport of
much of the raw material through India to the plant, while Sal grown within a
100 km radius of Dhangarhi must be moved along Nepal kacha roads to the
plant. Furthermore, the difficulty and time required to collect and
transport the raw material during the very short collection period (6 to 8
weeks from Mid-May to late June) has reduced the amount of collected seed
with the result that the processing plant must operate well below its
capacity. The construction of the new road from Tulsipur to Mahendranagar
is thus expected to have a significant beneficial effect on the operation
of Gyan.
During the 1983 collection season, about 11,000 ton of the seed was
collected and transported to the plant. Approximately 50% of this had to
leave Nepal at the border near Nepalganj, entering again near Dhangarhi. The
cost of such shipments is presently NR510 per ton from Nepalgunj to the plant
(economic costs). The remaining 50% is transported by truck, at very high
cost, along kacha roads within Nepal.
The extent of the anticipated transport cost savings as a result of
the construction of the road is:



-69-
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 7
Summary of Transport Cost Savings For Solvent Production
(1983 Prices)
A. Raw Materials Shipped via Nepalganj
Existing Situation
6,500 tons x NR510/ton = NR3,315,000
With Road Improvement
6,500 tons divided by 10 tons (truck capacity) = 650 one-way trips
1,300 return trips x 170 km (distance) = 221,000 veh/km
221,000 veh/km x NR3.00/km (unit vehicle running cost) = NR663,000
2 (days) x NR165/day (time cost/day) x 650 (trips) = NR214,500
Total Transport Cost with Road = NR877,500
Savings Due to Road
6,500 ton divided by 8 ton (truck capacity on kacha roads) = 810 one-way trips
1,620 return trips x 70 km (average distance)   113,400 veh/km
113,400 x NRO.80 (addit. VRC for rough road) = NR90,720
0.5 x NR165/day x 1,620 (extra time costs) = NR133,700
NR90,700 + 133,700 = NR244,400/year
Note:
These calculations are based upon vehicle running and vehicle time costs
derived in the feasibility study on the Kathmandu-Raxaul bridges, the
Bhainse-Raxaul road and the Naubise-Mugling road by N.D. Lea & Associates
(1983).
Additional Value of Solvent Production With Road Improvement
(1983 Prices)
Additional Production/Year
Value of Production
50% Low Grade                      : NRI2,300/ton (cif. Delhi)
50% High Grade                     :  NR19,600/ton (cif. Delhi)



-70,
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 7
Marginal Cost of Production
Assume NR5,000/ton
Net Value of Additional Production
325 ton x (12,300 - 5,000) = NR2,373,000 (low grade)
325 ton x (19,000 - 5,000) = NR4,550,000 (high grade)
Total Additional Value (cif. Delhi) = NR6,923,000 less 15% for insurance and
transport = N$5.9 million.
For the seed which presently must be shipped from the eastern end
of the catchment area via India, annual savings of NR2.4 million have been
estimated based upon cost and distance data provided by Gyan. For the
remainder of the seed found in closer proximity to the plant, the annual
savings have been estimated at NR244,000. This has been calculated based
upon the vehicle running cost and time savings anticipated. No savings have
been included for the reduced delay in shipping through India where customs
clearance procedures, encountered both entering and leaving India, are
reported to often exceed two days.
The other, and more important, benefit to Gyan production expected
to be brought about by the new road is that associated with expanded
production. At present, the facility is able to collect only 11,000 ton of
seed during the season which converts to 750 ton of refined product. If
collection and shipment could be carried out more rapidly, the plant could
collect about 20,000 ton which would match its production capacity of nearly
1,400 ton of finished product.
The estimated net value of this increased production has been
calculated based upon information provided by Gyan Industries and is shown
below. The net value of additional production is estimated at NR5.9 million
per annum (1982 prices).
The following summarizes the net benefits to the solvent industry
at Dhangarhi as a result of the road improvement:
NR Million/Year (1982 prices)
Transport Cost Savings        New Production         Total Additional Benefits
2.8                       5.9                          8.7
The 1983 prices have been reduced by 10% to reflect 1982 prices.



-71-
ANNEX 10
Fig. 1
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Distribution of Population in the
Far West and Mid West Regions
f  -' "
M dUfLA         L
,,J DARCHULA
~~~~~~3               9AURA *
OAO(LDUA  oo~ A H4HAft KALIKOT                      DOLPA
* /
KAILALI
~~~ ~       Key
:3 0200,000
SAMEZ ~~~~~~~~E   150 -200,000
.j..     100-150,000
< 100,000
Source: 1981 Census of Population (Preliminary Figures)



-72-
ANNEX 10
Fig. 2
Grain Deficits Areas in the Far West
And Mid West Regions
. GRAIN DEFICIT  AREAS  IN THE
RAR 'WEST AND  MID WEST REGIONS
*S.A.' :KH JA AR 0
tKANtXAIHPU~           .*     -  
K(ey
*J77 .-SHOver 100,000 tons
3 ARat /   \    g SAL "5, 0 0 0 -10, 00 0
8 /;t   BANXt   9     ?                  X   Lessthan 5,000
Surce:  Arit      retv siAN r
Source: Department of Agricultura' MIarketing  Servi ces, Mwinistry of Agricultture



)
.-o   j                   (.                  DESTINATIONS  OF FOOD  AIRLIFTED
FROM  NEPALGANJ AND OHANGARHI
' N FIVM~~HULA 
,'   ,  OARCHULA
| 2:0 tons)  .                  iJ*_                                                                   H
|BAITADI            II
rt
1            oatos /_ s|~M10o130                                                                 @*       o
('EK    2* t n s jj7ton                                          (D
on2* s )                                     DOLP
KE Y:                                          XA4EPACGANJns):  1   ,                   +{                
: -4
4.(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
,,   )-.     I11           N,SURKET.   CHAURJHiA 
KE Y:                                                                                                                                     H
Roads under construction                                  .                                                                           .
Proposed roads
Source: Nepna  Food Corporntion                                                * . *



-74-
Annex I I
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Other Quantifiable Benefits
The two benefits quantified, but not included, in the rate of return
calculations are:
a) Savings in Time and Expenses Incurred by Government Administrators
As there is no road connection to the Far West Region, travel to and
from the area is either by air using domestic airline services or via India
where there is a choice of air, rail and road transport or a combination of
these methods. In practice, it is usually necessary to travel via India
which require foreign exchange expenditures of Indian rupees as there is
insufficient capacity on the domestic airline to meet demand, and services
are infrequent to most destinations in the Far West. The project road
therefore offers the benefit of providing direct access to the Far West on a
route which is entirely within Nepalese territory.
At present Government administrators and project officers travelling
between Kathmandu and the Far West mainly use one of two routes:
- fly to Lucknow in India via Patna, and then travel by rail from
Lucknow to Bambasa. This route is preferred for travel to
destinations in Kanchanpur and Mahakali.
- fly to Bhairahawa in the Western Terai and then travel by rail
through India. This route is preferred by those travelling to
Nepalganj.
It is estimated that the number of administrators and project
officials travelling between Kathmandu and the Far West is around 150-200 a
month. This estimate is based on two sources of information. One is from
interviews with Ministries and Government Departments which indicate that, on
average, each of the twenty or more Ministries in Kathmandu sends at least
7-10 persons to the Far West each month. The other source is the national
airline, RNAC, which carry government officials to Patna or Lucknow in India
for onward destinations to Dhangarhi or to Nepalganj for further
destinations.
With the project road, it would be possible to travel to Nepalganj
(450 km) in about 10 hours and from Nepalganj to Mahendranagar (200 km) in
4-5 hours. At 200 passengers a month, without counting travels of expatriate



-75-
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
consultants and missions of lending institutions, the annual savings
(excluding time savings) in administrative travel costs due to the project
road would amount to NRs 1 million or US$700,000 equivalent (Attachment -
Vehicle Operating Costs). These quantified benefits are really a small
proportion of the full administrative benefits that would be obtained from
the project road. As access to the Far West improves, generated
administrative travel would become substantial. The transfer movements would
be another source of savings in the cost of administrative travel, since it
is a normal practice for government officers to be transferred from one
project office to to another or between headquarters and regional offices at
intervals of 2 years.
(b) Avoidable Costs of Transit through India
Nepalganj is the main distribution center for the Far West, although
some goods are transported directly through Dhangarhi and Mahendranagar.
Recent origin-destination surveys revealed that there has been a steady
movement of trucks between Nepalganj and Dhangarhi/Mahendranagar. This
movement is facilitated by the good road network in India.  Goods carried
from Nepalganj to Dhangarhi or to Mahendranagar have to cross the
Nepal/Indian border twice and are subject to customs checking on both
occasions. This provides opportunities for officials to impose additional
payments to prevent lengthy delays at the customs check posts or to bypass
petty regulations. Moreover, once in India, extra charges are incurred in
road/bridge tolls and in negotiating the smooth passage of vehicles through
police checks.
One estimate from a large organization based in Nepalganj is that
these "administrative costs" amount to around NRs 250 (US$17.80) per
privately-operated truck. These costs would be avoided if the vehicles could
travel on the Nepalese side of the border via the project road. On present
traffic volumes (30 v.p.d.) the annual saving would amount to NRs 2.7
million. This figure would rise steadily as the project area develops.



-76-                            ANNEX 11
Attachment
Page 3 of 5
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs in the Project Area
The table below shows operating costs for vehicles using existing paved roads
in Nepal in both mountain and terai conditions.
ESTIMATED VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS IN THE PROJECT AREA
(NRs per km)
Paved Surface                Gravel Surface
Financial   Economic         Financial    Economic
Jeep                            3.9          2.5              5.1           3.3
Truck                           5.3          4.0              6.9           5.2
Bus                             6.3          4.8              8.2           6.2
The vehicle operating costs for jeep, truck and bus have been worked out as
above.  However, in the absence of the project road only jeeps could travel
on the existing bullock cart tracks.
The vehicle operating costs on unpaved tracks are about double the cost on
paved roads.



-77-
ANNEX 11
Attachment
Page 4 of 5
Tyres
Average tyre      No of      Unit cost (NRs/tyre)
life (km)       tyres     Financial    Economic
Jeep        22,500            4           2,400         1,265
Truck        25,000           6           5,000         2,635
Bus          20,000           6           5,000         2,635
Unit costs are based on retail prices less 65Z customs duty and
15% sales tax.
Insurance
Annual          Annual       Unit cost (NRs/'000 km)
premium (NRs)  distance (km)    Financial  Economic
Jeep          2,500         -25,000            100        100
Truck         3,500          50,000             70         70
Bus           3,500          55,000             64         64
The estimated premiums are based on information received from the
main supplier of jeeps and from truck and bus operators.
Wages
Annual          Annual       Unit cost (NRs/1000 k'n)
cost (NRs)    distance (kn)    Financial  Economic
Jeep          6,000          25,000            240        240
Truck        16,000          50,000            320        320
Bus          25,000          55,000            355        355



-78-
ANNEX 11
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
Maintenance
Cost over vehicle life    Vehicle life             Unit cost
(NRs/'000 km) ('000 NRs)        (Years) ('000 km)       Financial
Economic
Jeep                  100             7       175            571            439
Truck                300              8      400             750            577
Bus                  300              7      385             779            599
Estimates of maintenance costs are based on interviews with suppliers and
with truck and bus operators. Information from the main supplier of Tata
trucks indicates that the truck fleet in Nepal is static, and that existing
vehicles are being used longer. Maintenance costs for trucks have therefore
risen sharply in the past five years.
Financial costs reduced by 30% to allow for sales tax and customs duty on
imported spare prts.
Depreciation
Vehicle price        Vehicle life            Unit cost (NRs/'000 km)
('000 NRs)           (Years)  ('000 km)    Financial          Economic
Jeep             140                   7        175             971           675
Truck            325                   8       400              988           681
Bus              400                   7        385           1,260           876
Depreciation if calculated on the life of the vehicle allowing a residual
value of 10%. Interest rates are added in the calculation of unit costs.
They are based on the assumption that the buyer pays 30% of the total vehicle
cost at the time of purchase and that the balance is paid over a period of
three years. The rate of interest assumed on the loan is 18%. Financia;
costs are reduced to economic costs by deducting sales tax and customs duty.
Sales tax on all vehicles is 15%; customs duty is 25% on trucks and buses,
and 65% on jeeps.
Overheads
Overheads (for trucks and buses only) are assumed to be 25% of the sum of
other economic operating costs.



-79-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
NEPAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Bridge Replacement
Thankot-Birganj Road
The quantifiable benefits of the bridge rehabilitation/replacement
program include: (i) avoidable costs of providing temporary crossings; (ii)
avo%dable costs of traffic disruption; and (iii) reductions in traffic con-
gestion.
(a) Provision of Temporary Crossings
Based on recent experiences with washouts and structural failures in
Nepal, it has been concluded that the most practical and least costly means
of providing an effective temporary crossing is to construct an embankment
protected by gabions and, where possible, large boulders and surfaced with
selected fine river gravel.
The initial construction and subsequent reconstruction (following
heavy flooding) of temporary crossings was costed. From knowledge of river
conditions within the area it has been assumed that floods of sufficient size
to cause damage to the temporary crossings will occur an average of three
times each wet season. It was also assumed that the initial unserviceability
of the structure would occur mid-way through the wet season and that the
temporary crossing would need to be maintained for the remainder of the first
wet season and the entirety of the subsequent season. No provision for
maintenance of the crossing during the dry months has been made, although it
is likely that a certain amount of grading and surface material replacement
would need to be done.
(b) Disruption to Traffic
Costs related to the disruption of traffic flows caused by the
inability to use a permanent high level river crossing would result in: (i)
high vehicle operating costs borne by vehicles which must drive along the
temporary crossing; and (ii) loss of time when the river is in flood and the
temporary crossing cannot be used.



-80-
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 6
Based upon the vehicle operating costs derived in Annex 11 (Attach-
ment) and the traffic forecasts (Annex 12, Attachment), the increased vehicle
operating costs from using the temporary crossing have been developed for
each bridge at the 1983 traffic level. No provision for additional time
costs are included in this estimate. The cost of delays (i.e., loss of time)
are only important in an economic sense where the value of an individual's
time is high or the delay is of such length as to significantly affect the
utilization of the vehicle and crew. For this reason, only the delay costs
brought about by the unserviceability of the permanent crossing has been
estimated. Only the time value of the vehicle and that of paid occupants has
been included.
(c) Congestion Costs
Congestion costs were included in the analysis only in the cases
where the use of the vehicle and crew is effected significantly. The
elimination of delays for through traffic may yield marginal savings in crew
costs, but they were not quantified. Small savings for traffic of a local
nature, however, would result in greater vehicle utilization. Such traffic
was significant only at the Raxaul bridge at the India/Nepal border which has
been deleted from the project (para 4.20).



-81-
ANNEX 12
Attachment
Page 3of 6
EXISTING AND PROJECTED TRAFFIC VOLUMES
1. Present Traffic
In 1982/83 traffic counts were undertaken at various points on the
road sections between (i) Thankot-Naubise; (ii) Naubise-Mugling; and
(iii) Naubise-Hetauda; and Hetauda-Birganj. The vehicle counts were adjusted
taking into account seasonal traffic variations, expected traffic diversion
to the project road from the shorter but circuitious Rajpath
(Hetauda-Naubise) and expected diversion from the project road to the
Hetauda-Kathmandu Ropeway, planned for future upgrading.
The adjusted traffic volumes are:
Average Annual Daily Traffic
(1982-1983)
Road Section          Vehicles      Buses      Trucks      Total
Thankot-Naubise         130          130        380         640
Naubise-Mugling          95          120        220         435
Bhainse-Hetauda          25            -        120         145
Hetauda-Raxaul          100           95        370         565
From the Truck Origin-Destination Survey, it was found that through traffic
travelling both northbound and southbound prefer the longer project road.
The percentage split from the Survey is as follows:
Share of Through Truck Traffic By Route Travelling Between
Naubise and Hetauda
Via Narayangarh-Mugling        Via Rajpath
(Project Road)
Northbound               61%                     39%
Southbound               62%                     38%
Discussion with operators confirm a preference for the longer route.
The reasons given for this included: less engine wear, less tyre wear, less



-82-
ANNEX 12
Attachment
Page 4of 6
strain on the driver and lower probability of accident. Driver interviews
also confirm a preference for the Narayangarh-Mugling route and a gradual
shift in driver facilities (e.g., tea houses, eating places) have begun to
take place. Additionally, the pavement along much of the Rajpath is in a
very rough condition and the deterioration of the road surface appears to be
increasing despite the reduction in traffic volumes. Very large expenditures
would be required to actually improve the pavement surface and even to halt
the deterioration. Such expenditure is unlikely to be made, both because of
the diminishing traffic along the route, and the need to send more main-
tenance funds on the longer route.
For the purpose of this analysis, it was assumed that diversion will
continue until such time as a 75%:25% split between the two routes is
achieved. After this, traffic growth along the two routes is assumed to
equalize at the same rate. It was assumed that the equilibrium split will be
achieved within a period of 5 years. That is time for driving habits to
change and for the Rajpath to deteriorate to a level of roughness which will
remain virtually unchanged.
2. Forecasts of Traffic Growth
A number of sources were examined for the purpose of assessing past
growth in traffic within the project area in order to estimate future growth.
These included historic traffic counts, motor fuel sales and vehicle
registrations.
(a) Historic Traffic Counts
The average annual growth rates for both trucks and other vehicles
are shown in the table below:



-83-
ANNEX 12
Attachment
Page 5 of 6
HISTORIC TRAFFIC GROWTH AT SELECTED STATIONS
Average Annual Increase (% p.a.)
Trucks         Total         Since
Raxaul - Hetauda(i)
At Birganj            8.0            8.3          1973
At Pathlaiya           7.5           7.4          1973
At Hetauda            4.2            6.4          1970
Mugling - Pokhara(i)
At Mugling            19.0          15.9          1977
Thankot - Naubise(ii)
At Naubise-ii2       _              5.8          1978
Notes:
(i)  Source:  Department of Roads traffic counts.
(ii)  Source:  'Feasibility Study for Replacement of
Bridges on Kathmandu - Raxaul Highway'
by the Department of Roads, June 1981.
(iii)  Base counts were increased by 10% to reflect a
more correct traffic split between night and day.
The 10% factor was based upon recent counts at this
station by the DOR.
Along the southern portion of the Birganj-Hetauda road growth rates
have averaged more than 7% since 1973. Further north, at Hetauda, the
average growth rate has been just over 6% per annum.
(b) Motor Fuel Sales
The Nepal Oil Company has estimated that an increase in motor fuel
sales of about 8% per annum has taken place within the Central Region of
Nepal between the years 1976/77 and 1981/82. The estimated sales are as
follows:
Estimated Sales (Metric Tonnes)
1976-77        1980-81
Petrol                 4,000           4,800
Diesel                 12,400         19,400



-84-
ANNEX 12
Attachment
Page 6 of 6
It is estimated, however, that the growth in sales for general tran-
sport use is likely within the 6Z to 7% range after excluding the consumption
of diesel for industrial use.
(c) Vehicle Registration
Total vehicle registrations for the year 1977-1978 for the Bagmati
and Narayani zones were compared with new registrations for the 1981-1982
year (provided by the Police) in order to infer a growth trend. The data,
however, appeared inconsistent such that no realistic rate of increase could
be calculated. No explanation for these inconsistencies could be found.
(d) Conclusions
While the historic data assembled is far from complete, it apppears
that traffic growth within the Study Area has increased within a range of
between 6% and 7% since the mid-1970's.
Certain new, discrete activities have been identified which will
contribute to future traffic growth. There include the processing of mag-
nesite in the Kathmandu Valley and increased cement production, both from
a new plant in Hetauda and from a planned capacity augmentation at che Kath-
mandu plant. In general, however, there are no obvious major developments
which would lead to significant additions of new traffic nor does the current
economic outlook suggest that important changes to traffic growth will occur
within the foreseeable future.
For the purpose of carrying out analyses within the project area,
therefore, an average annual traffic growth rate of 6.5% has been adopted.
It is assumed that this rate will prevail for the ten year period 1983-1993
and, thereafter, the rate of growth will decline to 5% per annum.



-85-                       ANNEX 13
NEPAL
Proposed Third Highway Project
Project File
1. -East-West Highway
(a)  Final Feasibility Report                           Norconsult  3/82
(b)  Final Feasibility Report                           Norconsult  1/83
Amendment Covering Alignment
Alternatives Sikhar-Babai River
(c) Mahendranagar-Babai Section
(i)  Draft Final Soils Report                      Norconsult  9/81
(ii)  Design Report                                       "     5/82
(iii)  Draft Final Design Calculations                     "     9/81
(iv)  Tender Documents                                    "     5/82
(v)  Addenda & Amendments                                "     3/83
(vi)  Standard Specifications                             "     9/81
(vii)  Draft Final Conditions of Contract                        9/81
(viii)   It       "             "  Special Conditions             9/81
(ix)    "     "   Construction plus (Structure)                 9/81
(x)  Priced Bill of Quantities                                 5/82
(xi)  Draft Final Construction plus (Highway)                   9/81
(d) Babai River-Kohalpur Section
(i)  Design Report                       McDonald & Partners 10/83
(ii)  General Information for Tenderers             "          10/83
(iii)  Vol. 1 Tender Docs                            "           10/83
(iv)  Vol. 2 Structured Specs, etc.                 "          10/83
(v)  Priced Bill of Quantities                                10/83
(vi)  Drawings      .                                          10/83
(e)  Contractor Prequalification Documents            DOR            2/83
(f) Terms of Reference & Invitations to propose
for supervision by consultants                 DOR            9/83
(g) Economic analyses, ERR Calculations,
Computer print-outs, sensitivity analyses
(h) Development Project Cost Savings from the
Kohalpur-Mahakali Highway Project - Nepal
2.  Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
Preliminary Engineering Report on: N.D. Lea & Assoc.
(a) Selected Bridges between Kathmandu & Rexaul
(b). Pavement between Bhainse and Birganj
(c)  Roadworks between Naubise and Mugling
3.  butline Training Document - UK Crown Agents



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
OrganizatIon of Superision of Project Construction and RehobilItation Works
EAST-WEST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
,         ~~HMGS-Prjc 
Chief Enn6r1
D09  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
&J4ve~~~us.                                     DOR&llas  ;rutmn Cl-cl tf
a   Consutfnls                     T he EngiSeer A
Partner In Chairge          Chief Consulting Enginee
(E) cncharge ProJect at Sate
Th   iise f Wok & .rnpr .~li          t            rmDRo
(E)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
e ylo osl t tant                                                         Enginee                   Measurement  |              |     Sue o
(+2) (E)                       (3 + 4) (E)                         (E)                             (E) n                           (E)
I - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r- '
2R Idictsps  a  efldb  setAssatRsdent                                                                                              Assistant Resdent                 WolOmn-54
(1) DOR'         Reiet(2) er           RsdnfEKier            UetE S                    ROAD AND BRIDGE REHAILITA71ON                          iS t&Apt0
f  I                                          -                            | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chief Englnewr 
8 Non '                                                                                    (Nu|euWn
SurvyoYrs Technicians, Draughtsn-en, Clelcel Staff                                   |aPro)ect Mog
|  DalSaff ErmloVed bV Consittant (Sorne rnaV be Avalable from DOR)  j                                                                                     |Poj|ect M9anager|
|                                    *                  .~~~~~~~~~~Ez
Note&                                                                                                         sitn  rJc
I The POWec Bor.zd Myersrp                -indicates post to be, filled frorn!maee
The Minister of Works & Transl3off (WWI)  staff semcned from DOR ori
The Seretcwy, KWT                         bcalconsultantII
Chlef EngrNthr DOR                                                                          |Rsdn  nner|              |esentEgne|
R?e. frorn lnawce Ministr (I no.)|                                                                   ID               II
Rep. 1bran Lasw & Jushk  Minitsr ( t no.)                                                      Blrganj-Hetauda                   ODA Works
ilep. frorn Aucgtor Gereral (i no.)                                                                &ridges                                                                                        P
icoct Marnage- DOR l-
2 E inicatels pnost mowV be filled by expert                                                                |  sitn  eiet||Assistan Resldent |World Bank-25147
| Engineer l lEnginewr
(Thongkot Naubise    (Naubise-Mugilng
Bridges)            Parvement)



'6- |,  ,                                                         ,     IBRD  17132R
_ .R82 '                                                         8d '                                                           86 K8                                                                         APRIL   19841
N E P A L
:4        3                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
z  EAST-WEST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION AND ROAD AND BRIDGE REHABILITATION
ProIect C omIpoets                            Eistg Airports                                                          30
rapschus  ' 'o/no/p '   '               '     <                                                                                               Proposed ' B0dg-                              I -t    -1, pated
,Css t   " \'   }  <                                          '''--~~  Proposed R         C--t- by IDA        t      D-mesto AVRO, p.    d
'(.                                                               /> ) D   *P.apeosd Reed Ceestruotio- by Seed; FPid  Dor-esri  AVRO, gross
I-kfi                          '                            '?  9  _Proposed Rood Re obittioe-<          STOL, gross
J                                                                                             -_    Reeds                                          5TOL. pi atus, gress
. ,,   ,Pr.reory Al l-seeo/er Hig/ps   .      STOL Airports Under Corsteect er
A                                                                                                                                                   Grorollod / Eorsh-e  Rocds              /      Proposed STOL Airpo-rs
e    -C  pr~~~~~~ s   I       .           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~                                           Ree LJds Cde  Coe-r-ro
qrnlo                                   \>   it'                              - -   Plo-ed and Proposed R/oas                      Rivers
S/oh   orooei               Ar                                       r--S               .                    l    '        o.       '1              o5Selectee Towns and VNlogos   -"-              Z         Boutid-riVs
U-                                 n                ,  jY , g -  ~        / , eed Z I H-eodq De-telspm                        n             Reg- B-d-.,
MneJ rng N                  55%                                                                 &-   K \~  <         \.                                 Naornoil Cepisel                      -'       oItereetoool Budre
t)   A/ni yr                           I                                  \e                                                                                                             S  ndhul5m (55<.~-  *Ber>er  Me/r e/i  Riser aRi.     Arso A ody os  00/p  so  Os co- r- rd.
K0 [FA 'z 2. .i b. <PMinobr  i                                                                                                                    '<             i~5"                  C                 H                 I               N                  Adoe8 -
~~'~'K  $  4s&ierae\  i/Sr/hot    3    p   p         K     -~~~~~~~~~  -zi.       s ~       G      A   N\D  A  K  I
1 ~~~~~~/                       \                            Srdi1ori                       -a                             Poklreonw //~e'sisz/J2hara  ,i-|
Psee 000     K   h.       j55    N                    5}rrdik.r 9h ha. A                   kr      <                             Ridr   /         Jeihit           \       > /                                                   '"-r'
,U.f~~~~~~~~~*%$                                                            -t  Uf   M.us Br I   N/>\                                  /N0 e / FJnkp   /00191 / hgar,ot                                       __    p
L~I~ P., 82-                        k
~~~                  /C-~~~~~~h     DTu  ho-(                                                                                       GKiehe   -
h,~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                 22'
K   HMAND ~     /Oohy
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h h 254   58   0
SC  82'                                                          Rd'                                                              Re'                                    Pr' /                     8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT p-~



