Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4561 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Chongqing Urban Environment Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 3, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4561 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 2000, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Chongqing (as defined in 
Section 1.02(c)) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Chongqing, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and Chongqing (the Project 
Agreement);
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through October 6, 1999 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of any 
change in land or water use due to works carried out or to be carried out 
under the Project, would incur the involuntary loss, temporarily or 
permanently, of shelter, productive assets or access to productive 
assets, or of income or means of livelihood and, as a consequence, have 
their living standards or production levels adversely affected; and 
“Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons.
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“Chongqing” means the Borrower’s Municipality of Chongqing, 
and any successor thereto.
(d)
“CMDC” means Chongqing Municipal Drainage Corporation, Ltd., 
a state-owned limited liability company established and operating 
pursuant to its Charter of April 1999 and to Business License No. 
5000001800628, dated January 15, 1998, issued by Chongqing Industrial and 
Commercial Management Bureau, and any successor thereto.
(e)
“Chongqing Solid Waste RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action 
Plan for Chongqing Municipal Solid Waste Component’ dated March 2000, 
which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement 
and compensation for Affected Persons for Part A(2) of the Project, as 
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with 
said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with 
the Bank.
(f)
“CSWM” means Chongqing Solid Waste Management Limited Co., a 
state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant 
to its Charter of December 12, 1997 and to Business License No. 28488879, 
dated December 18, 1997, issued by Chongqing Industrial and Commercial 
Management Bureau, and any successor thereto.
(g)
“Chongqing Wastewater RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action 
Plan for Chongqing Wastewater Component’ dated March 2000, which sets out 
the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation 
for Affected Persons for Parts A(1)(a) and A(1)(b) of the Project, as 
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with 
said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with 
the Bank.
(h)
“Environmental Assessment” means the Chongqing Urban 
Environment Project Environmental Assessment Final Report, dated August 
1999, covering Part A of the Project and includes environmental 
Page  3
mitigation measures and the administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of such measures. 
(i)
“Fuling” means the city of Fuling in the Borrower’s 
Municipality of Chongqing. 
(j)
“FDC” means Fuling Drainage Company Ltd., a state-owned 
limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of August 27, 1998, and to Business License No. 20851040-5(1-1) 
dated September 30, 1998, issued by Chongqing Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(k)
“Fuling Wastewater RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action Plan 
for Fuling Wastewater Component’ dated March 2000, which sets out the 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for 
Affected Persons for Part A(3) of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same 
may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
(l)
“Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan” means the action 
plan dated April 2000 setting forth activities to be carried out by 
Chongqing to control and minimize industrial pollution in the Jialing 
River Basin in order for surface waters of Chongqing to meet the water 
quality class-III standard stipulated in the Borrower’s “Surface Water 
Environmental Quality Standard” (GB3838-88). 
(m)
“Nanbin” means the town of Nanbin located in Shizhu county, 
in the Borrower’s municipality of Chongqing.
(n)
“PMO” means the project management office maintained 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
(o)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Chongqing of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement.
(p)
“Project Participants” means: (i) collectively, Fuling, 
Shizhu and Wanzhou; and “Project Participant” means, individually, any of 
the Project Participants; and (ii) for purposes of Schedule 3 to the 
Project Agreement, collectively, Chongqing, Fuling, Shizhu and Wanzhou; 
and “Project Participant” means, individually, any of the Project 
Participants.
(q)
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the 
Chongqing Solid Waste RAP, Chongqing Wastewater RAP, Fuling Wastewater 
RAP, Shizhu Water Supply RAP and Wanzhou Water Supply RAP.
(r)
“Respective RAP” means:
(i)
for CMDC: Chongqing Wastewater RAP;
(ii)
for CSWM: Chongqing Solid Waste RAP;
(iii)  for FDC: Fuling Wastewater RAP; 
(iv)
for SWSDC: Shizhu Water Supply RAP; and
Page  4
(v)
for WWSC: Wanzhou Water Supply RAP.
(s)
“SWSDC” means Shizhu Urban Construction (Group) Water Supply 
and Drainage Limited Company, a state-owned limited liability company 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter of December 14, 1998, 
which was approved on December 24, 1998, by Shizhu Construction 
Commission; and to Business License No. 21395127-2 dated March 8, 1999, 
issued by Shizhu Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto.
(t)
“Shizhu Water Supply RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action 
Plan for Shizhu Water Supply Component’ dated March 2000, which sets out 
the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation 
for Affected Persons for Part A(5) of the Project, as well as monitoring 
and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the 
same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
(v)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the 
agreements to be entered into between each of Chongqing, Fuling, Shizhu 
and Wanzhou and its respective Utility Company pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes schedules to said agreements; and 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, individually, any of the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements.
(w)
“Utility Company” means in respect of:
(i)
Chongqing: CMDC and CSWM;
(ii)
Fuling: FDC; 
(iii)  Shizhu: SWSDC; and 
(iv)
Wanzhou: WWSC,
collectively, referred to as “Utility Companies.” 
(x)
“Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project” means:
(i)
for CMDC: Parts A(1)(a), A(1)(b), E and F of the 
Project;
(ii)
for CSWM: Parts A(2), E and F of the Project;
(iii)  for FDC: Parts A(3), E and F of the Project; 
(iv)
for SWSDC: Parts A(5), E and F of the Project; and
(v)
for WWSC: Part A(4) and F of the Project.
(y)
“Wanzhou” means the city of Wanzhou in the Borrower’s 
Municipality of Chongqing.  
(z)
“WWSC” means Wanzhou Water Supply Company, a state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter of June 8, 
Page  5
1961, and to Business License No. 20790, dated October 12, 1999, issued 
by Wanzhou Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto.
(aa)
“Wanzhou Water Supply RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action 
Plan for Wanzhou Water Supply Component’ dated March 2000, which sets out 
the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation 
for Affected Persons for Part A(4) of the Project, as well as monitoring 
and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the 
same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Page  6
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollar for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Chongqing to perform 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Chongqing therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Chongqing to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available 
Page  7
to Chongqing on the following principal terms:
(i)
The principal amount so made available shall be the 
amount in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.  
(ii)
The Borrower shall recover: (A) the principal amount 
so made available; and 
(B) an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the Loan from Chongqing over a 
period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years.
(iii)
The Borrower shall charge interest on such principal 
amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to 
time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iv)
The Borrower shall charge a commitment fee on such 
principal amount of the 
Loan so made available and 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Chongqing pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with sound accounting 
practices, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
Page  8
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a)(i) of this Section, 
including those for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Chongqing shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that Chongqing will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations 
thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely, the Subsidiary 
Page  9
Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of Chongqing, Fuling and 
Shizhu and each of their respective Utility Companies.
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional 
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to 
the Bank: 
(a)
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Chongqing and is legally binding upon Chongqing in accordance with its 
terms.
(b)
Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in 
Section 6.01 has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties 
thereto and is legally binding on said parties in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
68551125
Beijing 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
Page  10
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part A
of the Project by:
(a) CMDC
   66,500,000
36%
(b) CSWM
    5,700,000
36%
(c) FDC
    5,400,000
36%
(d) WWSC
    4,000,000
36%
(e) SWSDC
    1,800,000
36%
(2)
Other works
    1,600,000
36%
(3)
Goods under Part A(4)
    3,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
of the Project for
100% of local 
expenditures
WWSC
(ex-factory cost) 
and 75% of
local expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(4)
Other goods
   80,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of lcao 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 75% of
local expenditures 
for other
Page  11
items procured 
locally
(5)
Consultants' services
      500,000
100%
and training under
Part E of the Project
for WWSC
(6)
Other consultants'
   19,500,000
100%
services and training
(7)
Fee
    2,000,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   10,000,000
TOTAL
  200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region and expenditures in the currency of 
the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that 
are not foreign expenditures. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures under the Project prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000 
for expenditures by CMDC under Part A(1) of the Project, FDC under Part 
A(3) of the Project and Chongqing under Part E of the Project may be made 
in respect of Categories (1)(a), (1)(c), (2) and (6) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 
2000; 
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures by each Utility Company under Categories 1(a), 1(b), 1(c), 
1(d) and 1(e) until such Utility Company shall have entered into 
agreements, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Section II of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, with consultancy firms for the 
provision of training, institutional and financial technical assistance 
services and construction supervision services under Part E of the 
Project; and
(c)
with respect to WWSC, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures by WWSC under Categories 1(d), 
(3) and (5) until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
receipt of evidence satisfactory to it that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been entered into between Wanzhou and WWSC and that said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties 
thereto and is legally binding upon Wanzhou and WWSC in accordance with 
its terms.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
Page  12
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
works under contracts costing less than $6,000,000 
equivalent each; 
(b)
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent 
each; 
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or 
individuals, each costing less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 
equivalent respectively; and
(d)
training, regardless of the cost thereof,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Chongqing in the first 
phase of its long term environmental improvement program to: (a) improve 
urban environmental services with a view to reducing environmental 
degradation of its water and land resources; (b) provide an adequate 
supply of safe water to its growing urban population and economy; (c) 
maintain water quality at levels which are compatible with the needs of 
the wider Yangtze River basin; and (d) manage and conserve its historical 
sites. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Urban Infrastructure
Improve the quality of the water supply through the management of 
wastewater and solid waste disposals and treatment of water supplied as 
set out below.
(1)
Chongqing wastewater management
Carry out in selected areas in Chongqing: 
(a)
Rehabilitation and construction of about 50 kilometers (km) 
of a wastewater collection network; 
(b)
Construction of: (i) about 70 km of primary interceptors, 
including about 7 km of tunnels and a siphon under the Changjiang River; 
and (ii) two preliminary wastewater treatment facilities (a facility at 
Tangjiatuo with a final capacity 400,000 cubic meter per day (m3/d) and 
another facility at Jiguanshi with a final capacity of 1,650,000 m3/d) 
and ancillary outfalls; and 
(c)
A program of actions to reduce primary industrial pollution, 
including monitoring of industrial pollutant discharges, enforcement of 
standards applicable to such discharges and development of a sustainable 
industrial pollution control strategy, all designed to ensure that 
Page  13
surface waters meet the water quality class-III standard.
(2)
Chongqing Solid Waste Management. 
Expansion and improvement of solid waste management service in 
selected areas in Chongqing through: (a) provision of waste collection 
vehicles; (b) construction, as appropriate, of capping, gas ventilation 
and leachate control facilities for the phasing out of existing dump 
sites in Qinongchun, Xinlong, Renjinwan and Jigongtai; (c) construction 
of a new sanitary landfill with a 1,500 tons per day capacity at 
Chanshenqiao and provision of training for the operation and management 
of said landfill; and (d) provision of landfill operating equipment.
(3)
Fuling Wastewater Management  
Construction in Fuling of: (a) a system of interceptors, including 
about 5 km of primary interceptors and an inverted siphon; and (b) a 
preliminary treatment facility and an ancillary outfall. 
(4)
Wanzhou Water Supply
Carry out in Wanzhou City:
(a) Construction of: (i) a raw water treatment facility at 
Tongziyuan, with an initial capacity of 50,000 m3/d, including an intake 
with a capacity of 125,000 m3/d and water pumping stations; and (ii) an 
intake with a capacity of 100,000 m3/d to supply raw water to the 
existing No. 1 and No. 3 Water Treatment Facilities; 
(b) Expansion in the capacity of No. 3 Water Facility to increase 
the volume of water treated from 40,000 m3/d to 100,000 m3/d; 
(c) Rehabilitation and expansion of the treated water distribution 
network, including installation of booster pumps and construction of 
associate reservoirs; and 
(d) Construction of a wastewater interceptor culvert and an outfall 
to prevent pollution of the raw water supply to intakes.
(5)          Nanbin Water Supply
Carry out the following in Nanbin City, Shizhu County:
(a) Construction of a water intake with a capacity of 30,000 m3/d, 
a water treatment facility with an initial capacity of 18,000 m3/d and 
transmission lines to transport treated water from said treatment 
facility to the existing treated water distribution network; and
(b) Rehabilitation and expansion of the existing treated water 
distribution network. 
Part B:
Water Quality Monitoring
Improving water quality monitoring through: (a) establishment of a 
water quality monitoring station; (b) provision of equipment to 
facilitate water quality monitoring; and (c) training of staff on the use 
of such equipment and improved monitoring techniques.
Page  14
Part C:
Urban Management Information Systems
Improve the management of urban construction and development 
through: 
(1)
Establishment of a city-wide geographic information systems (GIS) 
focusing on the Chongqing main urban area by providing consultants’ 
services, training and equipment to develop: (a) a base mapping 
information system; (b) a wastewater information system; and (c) a solid 
waste information system; and
(2)
Strengthening of the Urban Management Information System Center by 
providing consultants’ services, training and equipment to: (a) develop 
technical leadership and guidelines for data management, exchange and 
coordination among the urban development and environment bureaus within 
the Chongqing municipal government; and (b) develop and implement 
decision support systems for the Chongqing Construction Commission. 
Part D:
Environmental Rehabilitation
Improve cultural heritage site management and conservation through: 
(a) reconstruction, restoration and upgrading, on a pilot basis, of 
cultural monuments selected from Chongqing’s Cultural Heritage Strategic 
Master Plan; (b) provision of training and equipment; and (c) campaigns 
to promote heritage conservation awareness. 
Part E.
Institutional Strengthening, Training and Construction 
Supervision
Strengthening the institutional capacity of municipal and city 
level agencies and of Utility Companies in: (1) project preparation, 
management, financial management, sewer mapping and updating, sector 
training in water sector and utility operations, river basin 
environmental management and information dissemination to the public; and 
(2) construction management and supervision, all through the provision of 
equipment, consultants’ services and training.
Part F.
Resettlement 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection 
with the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2006
3,985,000
August 15, 2006
4,115,000
February 15, 2007
4,255,000
August 15, 2007
4,395,000
February 15, 2008
4,540,000
August 15, 2008
4,695,000
February 15, 2009
4,850,000
August 15, 2009
5,010,000
February 15, 2010
5,175,000
Page  15
August 15, 2010
5,350,000
February 15, 2011
5,530,000
August 15, 2011
5,710,000
February 15, 2012
5,900,000
August 15, 2012
6,100,000
February 15, 2013
6,300,000
August 15, 2013
6,510,000
February 15, 2014
6,730,000
August 15, 2014
6,955,000
February 15, 2015
7,185,000
August 15, 2015
7,425,000
February 15, 2016
7,670,000
August 15, 2016
7,925,000
February 15, 2017
8,190,000
August 15, 2017
8,465,000
February 15, 2018
8,745,000
August 15, 2018
9,035,000
February 15, 2019
9,335,000
August 15, 2019
9,650,000
February 15, 2020
9,970,000
August 15, 2020
      10,300,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), 
(3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $75,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
Page  16
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
Page  17
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the [respective] 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
