Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4561 CHA
Project Agreement
(Chongqing Urban Environment Project)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
Dated November 3, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4561 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 2000 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY 
(Chongqing).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that Chongqing agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Chongqing, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
Page  2
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so 
defined in the Loan Agreement) and the preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Chongqing declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
cause CMDC to carry out Parts A(1)(a), A(1)(b), E and 
F of the Project and 
cause CSWM to carry out 
Parts A(2), E and F of the Project;
(ii)
cause Fuling to carry out Part F of the Project and 
cause Fuling to carry out, 
through FDC, Parts A(3), E 
and F of the Project;
(iii)
cause Wanzhou to carry out Part F of the Project and 
cause Wanzhou to carry 
out, through WWSC, Parts A(4), E 
and F of the Project;
(iv)
cause Shizhu to carry out Part F of the Project and 
cause Shizhu to carry out, 
through SWSDC, Parts A(5), 
E and F of the Project; and
(v)
carry out Parts A(1)(c), B, C, D, E and F of the 
Project;  
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank and Chongqing shall otherwise agree, 
Chongqing shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried 
out, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Chongqing shall carry out the obligations or 
cause to be carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
this Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, Chongqing shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may 
Page  3
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and Chongqing, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Chongqing on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Chongqing shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Chongqing shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by Chongqing of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Chongqing shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Chongqing, as 
well as the Project Participants, responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Chongqing shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
Chongqing thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank 
shall promptly notify Chongqing thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
Page  4
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall 
also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Chongqing:
Chongqing Finance Bureau 
No. 234 Renmin Road 
Chongqing, 
People’s Republic of China 
Cable address:
Facsimile:
5228 CHONGQING, CHINA
86-23-63857325
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Chongqing may be taken or executed by its Mayor or Vice-Mayor, 
or by such other person or persons as Chongqing shall designate in 
writing, and Chongqing shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $6,000,000 equivalent or more each; and 
(ii) contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $6,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $97,400,000 equivalent; 
and (b) goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
Page  6
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $6,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services under 
Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
Page  7
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for Parts B, C and D of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and which are estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
Page  8
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the 
Implementation Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or 
referred to below.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, 
Chongqing shall:
(a)
continue to maintain: 
(i)
a project management office (the Project Management 
Office, also referred to 
as ‘PMO’), with functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified 
personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for the overall 
coordination, 
management, supervision and quality 
assurance of Project execution; the 
supervision 
of the procurement of goods and services thereunder; the 
coordination of training activities; the preparation and furnishing 
to the 
Bank of reports and other information 
thereon; and annual budget preparation 
for the Project; and
(ii) 
an urban management information systems center (also 
referred to as ‘UMIS’), 
with functions satisfactory to 
the Bank, staffed by qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers, to be responsible for carrying out Chongqing’s 
activities 
under Part C of the Project. 
(b)
ensure that the Project Participants each shall continue to 
maintain a project office with functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible 
for: the coordination and supervision of the execution of its and, where 
applicable, its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; the 
supervision of the procurement of goods and services under its and, where 
applicable, its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; and the 
preparation and furnishing to PMO of reports and other information 
thereon. 
Resettlement Action Plan and Environmental Assessment
2.
Chongqing shall: (a) take and, where appropriate, shall through the 
Project Participants take, all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action 
Plans and the Environmental Assessment; and (b) ensure that any proposed 
Page  9
revision of the Resettlement Action Plans or the Environmental Assessment 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval.
3.
Chongqing shall: (a) implement Part D of the Project in accordance 
with sound environmental practices and standards; and (b) where 
acquisition of land, temporarily or permanently, is required for such 
implementation, Chongqing shall prior to commencing implementation work: 
(i) prepare a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, in 
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the 
Resettlement Action Plans; and (ii) carry out such plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
4.
Chongqing shall:
(a)
carry out the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank any proposed modification or amendment 
to said plan and take into account the Bank’s comments in implementing 
such modification or amendment.
Financial Arrangements
5.
Chongqing shall allocate to each Project Participant an amount of 
the Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, without limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to each Project 
Participant shall be the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn on account of each Project Participant’s 
Respective Part of the Project and, where applicable, its Utility 
Company’s Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
Chongqing shall recover: (i) such principal amount so made 
available and (ii) an amount equal to one percent of such principal 
amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period 
of five (5) years;
(c)
Chongqing shall charge interest on such principal amount, 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate 
of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 
2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)
Chongqing shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
6.
Chongqing shall:
(a)
lend portions of the proceeds of the Loan to CMDC and CSWM 
for purposes of carrying out Parts A(1)(a) and A(1)(b) and Part A(2) of 
the Project respectively, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between Chongqing and each of said Utility Companies: (a) on the 
principal terms set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (b) under conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
Page  10
which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Section II  
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
cause each Project Participant to relend the portions of the 
proceeds of the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant paragraph 5 of 
this Schedule for the purposes of carrying out its Utility Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project, to its Utility Company under a subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into between said Project Participant and 
each of its Utility Company: (a) on the principal terms set forth in 
Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) under conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without 
limitation, those set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
7.
(a)
Chongqing shall cause, and shall ensure that each Project 
Participant  causes, its Utility Company to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
which said Utility Company 
is a party, all of the obligations of said Utility 
Company 
therein set forth; 
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, 
facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
said 
Utility Company to perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere 
with such performance; and 
(b)
Chongqing shall exercise, and shall cause each Project 
Participant to exercise, its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
to which it is a party in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower, the Bank, Chongqing and said Project Participant, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to which Chongqing or said Project Participant is a party or 
any provision thereof.
Water Supply and Wastewater Collection Systems (Parts A(1)(a), A(1)(b), 
A(3), A(4) and A(5) of the Project) 
8.
For the purpose of carrying out Parts A(1)(a), A(1)(b), A(3), A(4) 
and A(5) of the Project, Chongqing shall:
(a)
in respect of Parts A(1)(a) and A(1)(b) of the Project, 
implement, through CMDC, a time-bound investment program acceptable to 
the Bank to strengthen its wastewater collection system.
(b)
in respect of Parts A(3), A(4) and A(5) of the Project, 
cause each Project Participant, through its appropriate Utility Company, 
to implement a time-bound investment program, acceptable to the Bank, to 
strengthen its water distribution and wastewater collection systems.
Chongqing Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Services (Part A(2) of the 
Project)
9.
For the purpose of carrying out Part A(2) of the Project, Chongqing 
shall through CSWM:
Page  11
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments by July 1, 2001:
(i)
results of a study, carried out in accordance with 
terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, on user 
fees and charges necessary to recover the 
full costs of 
providing solid waste collection and disposal services to 
industrial and commercial users; and
(ii)
a draft time-bound action plan, based on the results 
of said study and its 
recommendations, for the 
recovery of said full costs commencing on January 1, 
2002; 
and 
(b)
thereafter, implement said action plan, taking into account 
the Bank’s comments.
Institutional Development and Training
10.
Chongqing shall carry out, and shall cause each of the Project 
Participants and its Utility Company to carry out, Part E of the Project 
in accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank, which 
said action plan may be modified only with the agreement of the Bank.
Monitoring and Reporting
11.
Chongqing shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project, including the 
Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Assessment, as well as 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, the following semi-annual reports on January 31 
and July 31 in each year, beginning on January 31, 2001, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph 11(a) of this Schedule 2, based on the semi-annual progress 
reports prepared by UMIS centers and the project offices referred to in 
paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule 2, on the physical and financial progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
semester (the report due on July 31, 2003, to summarize progress achieved 
during the period, June 30, 2000, through December 31, 2002) and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 11(b) 
of this Schedule 2, review said report with the Bank (the report due on 
July 31, 2003, shall be reviewed with the Bank by December 31, 2003, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request), and promptly take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
(including, when applicable, the carrying out of the Resettlement Action 
Plans and the Environmental Assessment) and the achievement of the 
objectives minutes thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Page  12
For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
the terms of availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth 
in Section I of this Schedule 3 and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall 
be entered into on the conditions set forth in Section II of this 
Schedule 3.
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by a Project 
Participant to its Utility Company, shall be the amount equivalent in 
Dollars (on the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of said 
Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Utility Company shall repay: (a) such principal amount; and 
(b) an amount equal to one percent of such principal amount, over a 
period of not more than fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period 
of five (5) years. 
3.
Each Subsidiary Loan shall bear interest on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less 
than the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement. 
4.
Each Project Participant shall charge a commitment charge on such 
principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following 
principal conditions.
1.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the Utility Company’s Respective Part of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate technical, financial, engineering and 
public utility practices; 
and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for the purpose; and 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures 
necessary to ensure that the Utility Company’s Respective Part of the 
Project shall be implemented in accordance with its Respective RAP and 
the Environmental Assessment.
2.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to procure the goods and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such 
goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of its Utility 
Company’s Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, and the 
Project Participant concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and 
works included in its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
4.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including, 
Page  13
without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Utility 
Company to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Project 
Participant concerned; 
(c)
furnish to Chongqing, the Bank and the Project Participant 
concerned, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so 
audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such 
scope and detail as 
Chongqing, the Bank and/or 
said Project Participant shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, Chongqing and the Project 
Participant concerned all such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Bank, Chongqing, and/or said Project Participant shall reasonably 
request.
6.
With respect to Part A(4)(a)(i) of the Project, WWSC shall 
undertake to construct the Tonziyuan raw water treatment facility in 
accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank and 
commence construction of such facility no later than June 30, 2005.  
7.
CMDC, FDC and WWSC shall for each fiscal year, as of 2000, 
undertake to produce:
(a)
total revenues, equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds 
the provision for 
depreciation;
(b)
review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of fiscal 
2000, and on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to 
the Bank, whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
8.
CMDC, FDC and WWSC shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a 
reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its 
estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt 
Page  14
to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times its estimated debt service 
requirements in such year on all of its debt including the debt to be 
incurred.
9.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “total revenues” means the terms of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income.
(b)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(c)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and, except for water supply 
companies, provision for depreciation on a straight line basis at a rate 
of not less than 3.3% per annum of the average current gross value of the 
Utility Company's fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to 
the Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(d)
The average current gross value of the Utility Company's 
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of 
the gross value of its fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at 
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(e)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(f)
The term “debt ” means any indebtedness of the Utility 
Company maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred.
(g)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt 
or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(h)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net 
non-operating income, and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and 
other charges on debt.
(i)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in 
Page  15
(i) above.
(j)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
the Utility Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and said Utility 
Company accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified said 
Utility Company of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or 
future operating results of said Utility Company.
10.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at 
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
11.
Each Project Participant shall have the right to suspend or 
terminate the right of its Utility Company to the use of the proceeds of 
the loan made available under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said 
Utility Company upon failure by such Utility Company to perform its 
obligations under the agreement.
