Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7888
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
(LOANS 1986-JO AND 2162-JO)
JUNE 22, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi'hout World Bank authorization.



FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC 20433
L) S A
Offie iE Dv.ewCeu~aI
Opw tm Evaktiatun
June 22, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT.   Project Completion Report on Jordan
Fourth and Fifth Power Projects
(Loans 1986-JO and 2162-JO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Jordan - Fourth and Fifth Power Projects (Loans 1986-JO
and 2162-JO)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
K'
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



*' , 1 @,
JORDAN
FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS (LOANS 1986-JO AND 2162-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                         ............           i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .. . , .........                 ..    ........          ....... *...* * * * * * * * *
PART I - BANK'S EVALUATION
I.      BACKGROUND .................................................                               1
II.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .........................                               I
Project Objectives .........................................                              2
Project Description ........................................                              2
III.       CHANGE  IN PROJECT  SCOPE ....................................                            3
IV.      PROJECT COSTS .......................... ...................                               4
V.      PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ............................                               5
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................                               ........    5
VII.       PROJECT RESULTS ............................................                              6
Institutional  Performance ..................................                             7
Training ...................................................                              8
Financial  Performance. ....................................                              8
Environmental Aspects ......................................                             10
VIII.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................,O10
IX.      BANK  PERFORMANCE ...........................................                             11
X.      BORROWER  PERFORMANCE .......................................                            11 
XI.       PROJECT RELATIONSHIP .......................................                             12
XII.       CONSULTANT  SERVICES ........................................                            12
XIII.        PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA .............................                             12
XIV.         SUMMARY AND  LESSONS LEARNED ................................                            13
PART II - BENEFICIARIES' COMMENTS .                                                            >  15
- ANNEX  I ...................................................                            19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



T.  E              (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits                ..                 20
Tabie 2 - Project Timetable (Ln. 1986-JO) ...........................    22
Table 3 - Project Timetable (Ln. 2162-JO) ...........................    23
Table 4 - Cumulative Est  .d ti,1 A, '-iai Dishursen14, ,ts (Ln. 1986-JO)     24
Table 5   Cumulative Est. and Actual Disbursements (Ln. 2162-JO)              24
Tabse 6 - Project Implementation (Ln. 1986-JO)        .       .               25
Table 7 - Project Implementation (Ln. 2162-JO)    .           .25
Table 8 - Project Costs (Ln. 1986-JO)    ..26
Table 9 - Project Financing (Ln. 1986-JO)          ..27
Table 10 - Project Costs (Ln. 2162-JO) .28
Table 11 - Project Financing (Ln. 2162-JO) .29
Table 12 - Direct Benefits (Ln. 1986-JO) .30
Table 13 - Economic Impact .30
Table 14 - Financial Impact .31
Table 15 - Studies (Ln. 1986-JO) .32
Table 16 - Status of Covenants (Ln. 1986-JO) ........................    33
Table 17 - Status of Covenants (Ln. 2162-JO) ........................    35
Table 18 - Staff Inputs (Ln. 1986-JO) ...............................    38
Table 19 - Staff inputs (Ln. 2162-JO) ...............................    38
Table 20 - Missions (Ln. 1986-JO) ...................................    39
Table 21 - Missions (Ln. 2162-JO) ...................................    40
Table 22 - Costs ....................................................    41



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORTAN
FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
(LOANS 1986-JO AND 2162-JO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth and Fifth
Power Projects in Jordan, for which Loan 1986-JO of US$25 million and Loan
2162-JO of US$35 million we're approved in May 1981 and May 1982, respective-
ly. The loans were closed in September 1986 and December 1988, i.e nine and
twelve months behind schedule. Whereas, US$0.45 million of Loan 1985 were
cancelled, Loan 2162 was fully disbursed.
Parts I and II of the PCR were prepared by the Industry and Energy
Division of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office, largely
based on information provided by the Beneficiaries, whose comments on the
Bank's evaluation are set forth in Part II of the present report.
Preparation of the PCRs was started during the Bank's November 1988
supervision mission of the follow-on project.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
(LOANS 1986-JO AND 2162-JO)
EVALUATION SUMKARY
Introduction
1.        In May 1981, the Bank made Loan 1986-JO of US$25 million to the
Government of Jordan, which relent US$5 million of the proceeds to the Jordan
Electricity Authority (JEA), the Government-owned utility, responsible for
generation, transmission, and distribution in all of Jordan, except for ser-
vices in Amman and Irbid, which are entrusted to Jordan Electric Power Company
(JEPCO) and Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO), both mixed-economy
concessionaires, in which Jv.A has a large stake. The remaining US$20 million
of Loan 1986-JO were relent to JEPCO. In May 1982, the Bank made Loan 2162-JO
again to Government, which, this time, relent the entire US$ 35 million to
JEA.
Objectives
2.        The main objectives of the operations weret (i) to help Jordan meet
future electricity demand at least cost through construction of two 130 MW
thermal units at Aqaba and appropriate expansion of transmission and distribu-
tion facilities, (ii) to improve quality of supply, (iii) to support rural
electrification, and (iv) to promote institutional improvements both in JEA
and JEPCO. (PCR, para.2.02).
Implementation Experience
3.        The completion of the fourth project was two years late, mainly
because of JEA's late award of rural electrification contracts, on the one
hand, and JEPCO's unfamiliarity with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines as well
as some changes in project scope, on the other. Despite a slow start related
to difficulties in finalizing cofinancing arrangements, JEA was able to
complete the fifth project on schedule. The training activities in JEA and
JEPCO associated with the two projects emphasized finances, accounting, and
administration. They were successfully completed. Actual costs in US$ of the
two projects were 72 and 122 lower, respectively, than estimated at appraisal.
As there were no major changes in project scope, the differences are mainly
due to the appreciation of the US$ against other main currencies, which took
place during project implementation. (PCR, paras. 3.01 to 4.04 and 6.01 to
6.04).



iii
Results
4.        The projects achieved their principal objectives, in particular,
they helped strengthen the institutional capability of both JEA and JEPCO, by,
in particular training personnel to suzh extent that, at present, JEA does
only occasionally need to rely on outside consultants for management and
operation. The physical project components have been operating with very
satisfactory results. (PCR, paras.7.01 to 7.15).
5.        Whereas JEA complied with the covenant prescribing at least 25Z
self-financing in the period 1981-1983, it fell short of the 35? contribution
to investment envisaged for subsequent years. In connection with the sixth
operation, the Bank, in the presence of slower growth than anticipated in the
early 1980s, agreed to relax the covenant to require a minimum 35? contribu-
tion to investment only by 1989. The justification of such relaxation should
be investigated by OED in the context of the proposed audit. Except in 1985,
when its self financing ratio was 21?, JEPCO complied with the 25? minimum
requirement. (PCR, paras. 7.10 to 7.13).
Sustainability
6.        The PCR discusses in relative detail the risks that may endanger
sustainability of benefits. The general conclusion is that such sustainabi-
lity is reasonably assured on the basis of JEA's and JEPCO's proven operating
ability and Government's demonstrated commitment to the sector's development.
(PCR, para. 8.01).
Findings and Lessons
7.        Project implementation was affected by the lack of experience of
the Beneficiaries, in particular JEPCO, with procurement under the Bank's
Guidelines. Hence, the desirability of (i) a headstart in procurement, (ii)
the development within the Beneficiaries' organizations of strong in-house
capability to deal with ICB, (iii) strong monitoring of consultants, if such
are hired to carry out procurement tasks, and (iv) participation of the
Beneficiaries' staff in Bank sponsored procurement seminars. The Borrower
felt that Bank involvement in these projects fell short of the desirable
leve! most importantly because of a lack of continuity in the personnel
assigned to the operations. (PCR, paras 14.01 to 14.05).



-1-
PART I                                                   d
PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Fourth and Fifth Power Projects
Loan Nos:           1986-JO and 2162-JO
RVP Unit:           Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region, Country
Department III, Industry and Energy Division
Sector:             Energy
Subsector:          Power
I.  BACKGROUND
1.01     The most notable feature of the energy sector in Jordan during the
early 1980s was its total dependence on imported crude oil.  Jordan's modest
energy resources consisted of oil shale deposits, tar sands, a small
hydropower potential and solar energy. Oil shale and solar energy were
considered the most promising domestic resources and studies were mounted to
assess the potential of using oil shale for power generation and the
extraction of synthetic fuel.  The studies indicated that the chances of
commercially exploiting oil shale fcr either purpose were minimal and that use
of solar energy was not expected to increase significantly over the next ten
years. In this environmenL of constrained domestic energy resources, the
Government's short-run energy policies were aimed primarily at stemming the
growth ot demand for energy by rationalizing energy prices and encouraging
conservation. The long-run policies were aimed at further studies for
determining the feasibility of future exploitation of oil shale and at
intensifying exploration efforts for oil and gas.
1.02     In the early 1980s the principal power subsector issues tLigh on the
agenda of the authorities were: the pricing of electricity and petroleum
products; the autonomy and financial soundness of JEA - the main power
supplier; and escalating demand for power fueled by rapid increases in
industrial consumption and the increasing demand for rural electrification.
Petroleum product prices were gradually increased to rationalize the
-onsumption of energy in Jordan and to increase Government revenues.
Electricity prices have been maintained roughly in line with the economic
costs of supplying power by a combination of a 10% average tariff adjustment
in 1984, further minor adjustments in 1986 and 1988 and a softer international
market for petroleum and petroleum products. To increase access to public
power supply, especially in the rural areas the power subsector development
program for the period 1981-1990 provided for a thermal power station at
Aqaba, a transmission link between Aqaba and Amman and electrification of
about 300 villages amongst other investments. It is against this background
that tne Fourth and Fifth power projects were conceived.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.01     The projects, supported by Loans 1986-JO (US$25.0 million) and
2162-JO (US$35.0 million) were made to the Government of Jordan in FY81 and
FY82 respectively.  For 1986-JO the Government relent US$5.0 million of the



loan proceeds to thw '4.rdan Flectricity Authority (JEA), arid US$20.0 million
to the Jordanian Electric Power (ompiatiy UJEPCO); and for 2162-JO, the proceeds
of the loan were relent to JEA.
2.02     Project Objectives.  The two loans were part of a continuing series
of Loans to JEA which began in 1973 and the beginning of Bank lending (Loan
1986-JO) to JEPCO. The primary objective of the Fourth and Fifth Power
Project Loans was to help Jordan meet future power demand at least cost to the
economy through constru-tion of two 130-MW units at Aqaba and through
expansion of power transmission and distribution facilities. They also aimed
at improving the quality or power supply services, assisting the country's
rural electrification program, continuing the institution building efforts to
strengthen JEA as a financially viable and technically efficient entity, and
to initiate a similar program of assistance for JEPCO.
2.03     Project Description:  The following are the project components as
originally appraised:
A. Loan 1986-JO
(a)  JEA Component
(i)    about 160 km of 132-kV transmission lines to connect Aqaba,
Quweira, Subeihi, Asharafiya and Sahab with the national
transmission network;
(ii)    extension and reinforcement of 5 existing transformer
substations at Irbid, Bayader, Hussein Power Station, Amman
South and Ma'an, and construction of 5 new transformer
substations at Subeihi, Ashrafiya, Sahab, Quweira and Aqaba,with
a total installed capacity ot about 619 MVA;
(iii)    electrification of about 30 villages near Karak, Tafilah,
Shoubak, Ma'an and Wadi Musa;
(iv)    consultants' services; and
(v)    staff training.
(b) JEPCO Component
(i)    extension of the urban distribution network, including about 13
km of 33-kV overhead lines, about 43 km of 33-kV cables, about
140 MVA of 33/11-kV power transformers, equipment and materials
for about 120 distribution substations (11/0.4 kV), upgrading
the existing 6-kV distribution network to 11-kV and related
auxiliaries;
(ii)    electrification of about 20 villages around Amman;
(iii)    power supply to three low cost housing developments;
(iv)    consultants services;
(v)    organization and management review; and
(vi)    staff traininig.



-3-
(c) Energy Department (MTT) Component:
Consultants services to the Energy Department of MIT to help it in
strengthening its capabilities in tormulating policies aimed at improving
utilization of domestic energy resouLces, energy planning and energy demand
management.
B. Loan 2162-JO
(i)    a seawater-cooled steam power station at Aqaba with its first
stage to be commissioned in 1986 consisting of two 130-MW
oil-fired generating units and accessor.es;
(ii)    a 400-kV transmission line from Aqaba to Amman, about 320 km
long, to be initially operated at 132-kV; and
(iii)    consultants' services for engineering, erection, supervision,
and initial operation.
III. CHANGE IN PROJECT SCOPE
3.01     During project execution the following main modifications were made:
A.  Fourth Power Project - Loan 1986-JO
(a) Rural Electrification: Electrification of six additional
villages, three by JEA and three by JEPCO.
(b) Substations: Two additional substations for Queen Alia
International Airport to secure reliability of supply as the
original 33-kV substation was inadequate.  This resulted in an
increase of total installed transformer capacity for the project
from 619 MVA estimated at appraisal to 759 MVA;
(c) Transmission: The original estimate of the line route was lbO
km. When a final survey was made at time of bidding the length
was re-estimated at 177.6 km.  During implementation, a 22.5-km
line was added (Aqaba Thermal to Aqaba Town) to supply Aqaba
town loads from the national grid.
(d)  Energy Department (MIT) - Consultant Services:  During project
implementation the Government decided not to utilize Bank funds
for this activity as alternative funds had been secured under
bilatera' aid. On reviewing the results of the consultants
studies, it emerged that substantially more work still needed to
be covered.  It was then decided to finance the additional work
under Loan 2371-JO.
(B)  Fifth Power Proiect - Loan 2162-JO:  The main change in project
scope was a reduction in the civil works component which resulted in a 10%
reduction in the cost of the component or a contribution of about 2% to the
project's overall cost savings of 12% (para. 4.03) compaced to appraisal
estimates. When the bids were received for this component it emerged that the
costs were zubstantially higher than had been anticipated at appraisal.  To
ensure that adequate foreign exchange financing would be available JEA revised
the civil works component and excluded several items which were not regarded



as esseatial for the first stage of the power station. Many of these items
had been plannied (in advance of their need) co meet the requirements of the
power station upon completion of the proposed second sta,e.
IV. PROJECT COSTS
4.01     For both projects actual costs were lower than appraisal estimates.
The reasons for the lower project costs are explained in detail below.
Loan 1986-JO
4.02     Despite the addition of six more villages, 40.1 km of transmission
lines and two substations the total project costs were about 7% lower than the
appraisal estimates (Part III, Table 8).  Due to intense competition among
contractors the costf of the rural electrification component were roughly the
same as estimated at appraisal and the costs of the transmission component
were 9% lower. In addition, favorable bids for the urban electrification
component resulted in actual costs being lower than appraisal estimates by
about 20% Only the substations component showed substantial cost increases
(about 22% over appraisal estimates) due to the addition of two more
substations accounting for the increase in installed capacity from 619 MVA to
759 MVA (23%). The beneficiary organizations are of the opinion that the
iniensely competitive market conditions that existed at the time of
procurement is one of the maini factors that led to overall lower project
costs. JEA Iso felt that the pra tice of splitting project components into
multiple conLract packages was another factor contributing to lower costs.
Rowever, JEPCO indicates (Part II) that, if carried to an extreme, this
practice can have the opposite effect. It should also be noted that although
the total project costs were lower, the foreign costs were higher by about 15%
resultitng in the Bank loan contributing about 42% of the foreign exchange
expenditures instead of the 48% estimated at appraisal.
Loan 2162-JO
4.03     Project costs were about 14% lower than anticipated at appraisal
(Part III, Table 10). Costs for the Power Station were 9% lower than
appraisal estimates mainly due to the reduction in the scope of the civil
works components (para 3.01 (B)), and the lower than expected prices for the
Boiler Island. The revisecd project costs indicate that the foreign cost
requirements of the civil works component would be about US$35.7 million
compared to US$S0 million estimated at appraisal. Thus the Bank Loan (US$35.0
million) financed about 98% of the foreign costs of the civil works component
compared to 70% estimated at appraisal.
4.04     Costs for the Transmission Line were about 34% lower than appraisal
estimates, mainly due to sharp competition among bidders leading to lower than
expected contract prices. Furthermore, in the case of the Towers and Erection
contract, the specifications called for block type fouadations. However, the
contractor's prices were based on the anchor type foundations (which are much
cheaper). After much negotiation the contractor agreed to use block type
foundation, but the price of the contract remained the same as that estimated
on the besis of anchor type foundation.



- r, -
V. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
5.01     Both projects corresponded to clearly defined needs of the Jordanian
power system and were based on a clear conceptual foundation, which was for
Loan 1986-JO to strengthen and extend the transmission and distribution system
of JEA and JEPCO and, for Loan 2162-JO, to increase the generating capacity of
JEA and to connect the southern and northern part of the country through a
strong transmission link. The concepts involved well-established principles
in engineering practice and were well understood and shared by all relevant
parties.
5.02     The scope and scale of the prcjects were appropriately chosen in
light of their objectives except for some changes such as relocation of
substations, changes in the length and routing of some lines, anid the like
which are normally expected to occur in the course of such projects. The
projects were well prepared and the costs were estimated with reasonable
accuracy given the data available at the time of the estimate. The timing of
the projects was appropriate although in light of the slowdown of demand
growth in Jordan the Aqaba thermal power station has resulted in temporary
over-capacity and the transmission line linking Aqaba to Amman is presently
underutilized. The full capacity of this line will only be fully used if and
when the extension of the Aqaba thermal power station with units 3 and 4
materializes or if the interconnection with Egypt takes place.
5.03     The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
responsible for project implementation were clearly defined and understood and
consequently there was no confusion or undue interference in project
implementation.
5.04     In retrospect, the accurate design of the projects and the strong
internal organization of the implementing agencies with their continuous and
careful monitoring of the projects contributed greatly to the successful
implementation of the projects. In fact, in some cases, careful procurement
procedures resulted in cost savings even though the scope of work was, in
certain cases, augumented. The completion of the Aqaba Thermal Power Station
within budget, with minimal delay and with a high degree -of technical
competence testifies to the strength of JEA's internal organization and
project monitoring capability.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan 1986-JO
6.01     The project as appraised was expected to be implemented during ctue
four year period 1981-84 (JEA component to be completed by December 1983 and
JEPCO component by December 1984). Both components suffered a delay of about
24 months (Part III, Table 6). The JEA delays were mainly in awarding the
contracts for the erection works due in part to changes in scope of the rural
electrification component, delays on the part of the contractor for which he
was partially penalized, and delays by JEA in providing planning drawings for
some villages. This component was fully completed in December 1985.
6.02     JEPCO's delays were primarily related to procurement, especially
during the early implementation of the project. This organization's lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures at that time led to major delays in contract
award due to the need to modify various specification documents, and a request
by the Bank to award -ktitri ts lot-wise to arhieve the greatest cost savings.



6-
Other causes for slippage iti implementation schedules were: (i) delays in
receipt of municipality maps fcr several of the villages to be eleccrified;
(ii) the pending completion of the city center 33 & Il-kV reinforcement
program; and (iii) modificatiorn of site layouts by Government for the three
new low cost housing developments. This component was fully completed in
December 1986.
Loan 2162-JO
6.03     The project's implementation was originally scheduled in the period
1982-1986. Difficulties in finalizing cofinancing arrangements, JEA's
cumbersome procurement procedures, re-tendering of the civil works contract
due to change in scope and a manpower problem related to the hiring of local
workers as required by Jordanian law caused initial delays of about 8 months.
However, JEA recovered these delays and the main part of the project was
completed on time. The first and second units were connected to the grid in
March and July 1986 respectively and the plant was commissioned on December 3,
1986. The project was thus substantially completed about one month ahead of
the original completion date of December 31, 1986.'
6.04     During negotiations of the Fifth Power Project Loan the Government
had undertaken to construct a pipeline between Zarqa and Aqaba by March 31,
1986. The pipeline was intended to provide fuel oil to the power stationi,
transfer petroleum products to consumers in Central and Southern Jordan and to
transport imported crude oil from the port of Aqaba to the refinery. The
pipeline was not part of the project and was not to be financed by the Bank.
Due to changes in the Government's assessment of the need for the pipeline it
was not constructed. However, non-implementation of the pipeline has not
jeopardized the supply of fuel oil to the Aqaba power station as alternative
means of transport, by sea and by truck from the refinery have proved adequate.
VII. PROJECT RESULTS
Loan 1986-JO
7.01     The project implemented under the loan achieved its principal
objective, i.e. improved electric supply services to the electricity customers
of Jordan through a more extensive, stronger, and more reliable transmission
and distribution network. The project's lower total costs, an average
electricity tariff which broadly matches the economic cost of supply and a
revised economic rate of return of about 9% compared to about 11% estimated at
appraisal strongly suggests that the project's objective was met at least cost
to the economy.
Loan 2162-JO
7.02     In achieving its main obiective of meeting the growing demand for
power at least cost to the economy, the project was also expected to benefit
the economy by improving power supply services, accelerating regional
electrification, strengthening JEA and enhancing energy planning and
coordination activities in the sector. The project resulted in the addition
of 2x130 MW of oil-fired capacity to the Jordanian generating system. Since
total capacity was about 650-MW prior to the Aqaba station commissioning, the
project represents growth in installed capacity of 40 which has contributed
significantly ir. raising the reserve margin, thus decreasing system
I/  Original completion datt (ronmissioning of power plant) as defined in the
Loan Agreement was De (-mbe,  i, 148b.



-7-
unreliability to about 0.4 day/year which is comparable to that prevailing in
many developed countries. The 400-kV transmission line from Aqaba to Amman
provided the necessary means for evacuation of the Aqaba station power to the
largest load center of Lhe country, and connected the southern and northern
parts of the country through a strong transmission link. Operating experience
with the Aqaba plant hai been excellent from commissioning date (12/3/86) to
11/19/88, unit I and 2 generated (gross) 1,382.1 GWh and 1,405.4 GWh
respectively with internal consumption in 1988 representing 9.3 and 9.52 of
gross generation respectively. The specific fuel consumption was about 0.22
kg/KWh for both units which translates into about 10 MJ/KWh, a satisfactory
figure for heat rate. The efficiency of the station in 1988 was about 40%
based on gross generation, and about 36% based on net. The availability of
unit I in 1988 was 92.2% whereas of unit 2 was 82.3% which are satisfactory
figures. The lower availability of unit 2 was due to a longer planned outage
of inspection. The forced outage hours for the units were I hr, 26 mins. and
9 hrs. 26 mins. respectively. Overall the performance of the station has been
very satisfactory and substantially in accordance with appraisal expectations..
7.03     Furthermore, during the course of both projects there were sizeable
benefits in the areas of institution building and human resources
development. Financial objectives as defined at appraisal were substantially
achieved (Part III, Table 14). The economic re-evaluation also shows
satisfactory revised economic rates of return of about 22Z for Jordan's
investment program during the period 1981-87 and 112 for its rural
electrification component financed under Loan 1986-JO compared with the
appraisal estimates of 21X, and 9X respectively. For Loan 2162-JO the revised
economic rate of return of about 132 also compared favorably with the
appraisal estimate of 10.4X. The favorable revised rates of return reflect
primarily the lower actual investment costs and the softer international oil
prices than at the time the projects were appraised.
Institutional Performance
7.04     Prior to these projects Bank Group assistance in the power sector had
helped to develop JEA into a well-organized and well-managed semi-autonomous
public utility that is both efficient and financially viable. The projects
under review assisted JEA to maintain the quality and reliability of services,
to extend services to new consumers, develop a core staff, through training
programs and working with consultants and Bank staff, that is capable of
undertaking most of its functions with minimal outside help. During the
course of project implementation, JEA decided not to utilize consultant
services on the rural electrification component as adequate in-house
capability had been developed to undertake the work. JEA has also developed
its accounting and financial management systems substantially, enabling it to
finance reasonably high levels of its investments from internal sources.
7.05     For the first time Bank assistance in the power sector was also
extended to a mixed public-private sector distribution company,'' JEPCO.
The main contributions to institutional strengthening of JEPCO were: (a) the
organization and management review undertaken by consultants and implemented
by JEPCO (Part III, Table 15); (b) broadening of the scope of JEPCO's training
program; and (c) exposure of its staff to international procurement practices.
1/ About 77% of JEPCO's share capital is owned by the public, 13% by JEA and
10X by municipalities.



-8-
Training
7.06     Under the Fourth Power Project, both JEA's and JEPCO's training
programs were reviewed to identify areas where training was most needed;
strengthen the training departments within the institutions; ensure that
training facilities available within Jordan (such as the University of Jordan
and the Institute of Public Administration) were used, and identify areas
where training abroad could be most beneficial.
7.07     JEA staff (under the Third Power Project - Loan 1688-JO), had
prepared a comprehensive training plan covering the Authority's needs in the
period 1980-1983. Under the Fourth Power Project this training program was
reviewed, for the 1981-83 period, and recommendations made for its
improvement. JEA decided to give greater priority to training for
administrative and financial/accoun-ting personnel. The Fourth Power Project
included training of 15 of JEA's management, technical and financial staff.
7.08     Before the Fourth Power Ptoject JEPCO's training programs had been
carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. These programs
were geared toward technical aspects such as cable laying, jointing, and
installation of switchgear and associated equipment. Although the training
programs were satisfactory, it was felt that further efforts were needed to
intensify JEPCO's training activities and prepare comprehensive staff training
programs covering all basic training needs. Under Loan 1986-JO, JEPCO, with
the help of a Bank training specialist, prepared a program for thé training of
JEPCO's staff in all its functional areas, especially financial, accounting
and administration. The project included training six of JEPCO's staff in
modern financial and managerial practices.
7.09     Both JEA and JEPCO's training programs were prepared and implemented
successfully and on time. Staff training abroad was conducted mainly in the
USA and the UK. JEPCO drew heavily on the services and co..operation of the
Vocational Training Institute in Jordan, and the Jordanian Institute of Public
Administration in designing and carrying out appropriate courses in
accounting, administration and management. The impetus of these training
programs went beyond the 1983 period. In the years 1983-87 JEA trained 321
engineers, 165 technicians and 281 financial staff while JEPCO, in the period
1981-86, trained about 994 staff. Although training programs for this period
were not reviewed as part of either of these two loans and therefore no
quantitative targets are available for comparison purposes, both the numbers
and mix of trainees are indicative of an adequate staff training policy.
Financial Performance
7.10     Although JEA has not fully met its financial objectives as
established under the Fourth and Fifth Power Projects its overall performance
for the projects' period has been satisfactory. Under previous projects,
Credits 386 and 570-JO and Loan 1688-JO, the financial objectives agreed with
the Bank Group were based on the concept of a rate of return on revalued
assets. The Government was unhappy about financial targets based on rates of
return on revalued assets arguing that the revaluation process tended to
create inflationary pressures in the economy. Therefore, during processing of
the Fourth Power Project, the Government requested the Bank to agree on
financial targets based on the concept of self-financing levels. The Bank
felt that provided the self-financing levels were set at appropriate levels,
JEA's financial viability would be safeguarded. It was, therefore, agreed



that JEA would need to generat- from its iitt rijal sources sufficient funds to
finance at least 25% of its tot-l inivestmei,t program in 1981-83, and 35% in
1984 and every year thereafter. these finaniial targets established for JEA
under Loan 1986-JO were also repeated under Loan 2162-JO.
7.11     During the three years 1981-83, JEA achieved self financing levels of
27% in 1981, 31% in 1982 and 42% in 1983 (Annex A, p. 12) with the average
self-financing level for the three year period being 29% compared with the
required 25%. In 1984 and 1985 the self-financing levels were only 29% and
25% respectively compared to the covenanted 35%. The slower sales growth in
1984 and 1985 as compared with appraisal estimates accounted for the lower
levels of self-financing despite an average tariff increase of about 10% in
December 1984. During the processing of the Sixth Power Project (Loan
2710-JO) it became clear that self-financing levels of 35% would not be
achieved in 1986 through 1988 without tariff increases even after taking into
account feasible efficiency improvement measures. The reasons for the
discrepancy between the revised projections and the appraisal estimates of the
Fifth Power Project (Ln. 2162-JO) were twofold. First, revised capital
expenditures for the period 1985-87 amounted to JD105 million compared to the
appraisal estimate of JD70.3 million for the same period. Secondly, due to a
downturn in the economy, the estimated growth of electricity demand was slower
at 8.5% p.a. for the period 1985-94 compared to 13% p.a. for 198L-9') estimated
at appraisal. During negotiations of the Sixth Power Loan (1ay 1986) the
Government arguing that electri. ity tariffs were already high, iii Jordan
requested tl.e Bank to agree otn a downward revision of financi,1 ta gets. The
Bank agreed to self-finanicing targets of 25% for the years 198, 87, 30% for
1988 and 35% for 1989 and subsequent years. The Bank agret-d to these targets
for two reasons. First, the targets were deemed adequate to IMA's local cost
financing requirements.  Second, foreign exchange needs tot ongoing projects
had already been secured.  These financial targets theu superseded those
established under these operations.
7.12     With the lower targets, JEA was able to achieve self-financing levels
of 33% in 1986 and 13% in 1987 compared to the 25% required in both years.
For 1988 the expected self-financing level is 43% which would be substantially
above the required 30%. However, JEA's performance in 1989 and subsequent
years is expected to be influenced prim-irily by the commencement of
amortization of the Aqaba loans and by the recent decline in the value of the
Jordanian Dinar. The combined effect of these factors is to reduce the
projected self-financing level in 1989 to about 1.3% thus making it essential
for JEA/Government to explore possibilities for cost reduction and/or revenue
enhancement measures. These aspects are being addressed as part of the
supervision of the on-going Sixth Power Project (Ln. 2710-JO).
7.13     Targets for evaluating JEPCO's financial performance were established
under Loan 1986-JO, the first loan for which JEPCO is a beneficiary. These
targets required JEPCO to achieve self-financing levels of 25% in 1982 and
1983, and 35% in 1984 and all subsequent years (Part III, Table 14). Against
these targets JEPCO's actual self-financing levels were 57% in 1982, 28% in
1983, 47% in 1984 and 21% in 1985. For each of these years JEPCO's
performance was more than satisfactory with the exception of 1985 when the
self-financing level was 21% compared to the required 35%. JEPCO's strong
performance in 1982-84 was r,,arLially due to delays in implementing its
construction program and its weak performance in 1985 was due to revisions in
its management and organizational structure (para. 12.03) which occurred in
December 1984. As occurred in the case ot JEA, IEPCO's financial targets for



-10-
1986 and subsequent years were revised downwards during negotiations for the
Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO). The agreed targets under Loan 2710-JO
required JEPCO to achieve self-financing levels of 25Z in 1986 and 1987, 302
in 1988 and 35% in 1989 and subsequent years. For 1986 and 1987, JEPCO showed
strong performance in achieving self-financing Levels of 47% and 44%
respectively. In 1988, JEPCO is expected to achieve a self-financing level of
352. However, in 1989 the effect of the recent depreciation of the Jordanian
Dinar would result in a lower self- financing ratio of 28% compared to the
target of 35X. The issue of JEPCO's expected declining financial performance
is being handled as part of the supervision of the on-going Sixth Power
Project (Ln. 2710-JO).
Environmental Aspects
7.14     The projects were implemented according to Bank guidelines on the
protection of the physical environment. Although overhead transmission and
distribution lines have an inevitable impact on the aesthetics of the
landscape and of the urban sites, this impact is generally tolerated in view
of the benefits of electric power.
7.15     Safety fr-asures necessary for the protection of workers and
surrounding populations were taken. The power station at Aqaba was designed
and constructed according to Bank guidelines for environmental protection.
Dust emission is minimal but some sulfur and nitrogen oxides are released to
the atmosphere through the stack since no sulfur removal equipment was
provided. The stack height was designed to provide adequate dispersion so
that, with the lack of other pollution sources in the area, the environmental
impact from plant emissions would be minimal. It should be noted however,
that the Bank could not obtain any records of environmental monitoring to
ascertain that the low concentration levels predicted by the computational
models are actually experienced, visual inspection indicates that there is no
need for concern at present. Bank missions however, have recommended to JEA
that it should establish and document present pollution levels in order to
ensure that future expansion of power production or other industrial activity
at Aqaba will not cause violation of Bank environmental guidelines. The Bank
staff also pointed out the need to prepare contingency plan to cover the risk
of oil spills in the sea area adjacent to the plant even though the
probability of such accidental spills may be quite low. The Bank was informed
that the plant-related oil unloading activity in Aqaba is only a small
fraction of the total oil traffic in that area, which includes oil exporting
facilities unrelated to the power sector. Therefore, the problem of oil
spills should be faced as a national planning concern.
VIII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
8.01     There is every prospect that the projects will maintain an acceptable
level of benefits throughout their ecoromic lives. As economic activity grows
in Jordan, a reliable and adequate supply of electricity (including
generation, transmission and distribution) will grow in importance. Risk
factors that may affect the beneficial outcome of the projects include future
levels of electricity tariffs and natural and man-made causes that could lead
to the destruction of the facilities, and potential conditions under which the
facilities could not be operated properly. In case electricity tariffs are
not periodically and adequately adjusted to levels commensurate with
increasing production costs, positive financial and ec.nomic benefits may not
be realized. However, based on past experience of itLe Government's



-I 1-
electricity pricing policies, it is expected that the project's viability will
be sustained. The probability of these facilities becoming unusable due to
natural and man-made causes is low and the related risks are accepted
everywhere in the world. Specifically for the Aqaba power station a risk can
be foreseen of oil prices rising steeply with respect to the price of other
fuels during the life time of the plant. In such a case the cost of
electricity production could be higher than that of alternatives. However,
most oil price forecast project stable prices for the next 10-15 years. It is
concluded that there are no unusual or excessive risks associated with the
projects and its benefits and services would be sustainable.
IX. BANK PERFORMANCE
9.01     Bank's performance during identification, preparation and supervision
of both projects was satisfactory. Frequent dialogue between the Bank, tLe
Borrower and the Consultants took place during the various phases of the
project cycle. During project implementation, Bank supervision missions
frequently visited Amman to help resolve implementation problems with the
exception of the period July 1986 through February 1988 when no mission
visited Jordan due to internal changes within the Bank itself. The delays in
project implementation which resulted from this were relatively minor. In
certain instances (JEPCO's component of Loan 1986-JO), the Bank apparently
took an excessively long time in reviewing and clearing bid documents thus
delaying the procurement process. It also appears that a combination of
JEPCO's lack of familiarity with Bank requirements and some changes in the
composition of supervision missions and the resultant differences in
approaches and requirements, added to the burden of the beneficiary (JEPCO).
9.02     One of the main factors contributing to the satisfactory performance
of the Bank on these projects, was that its knowledge of the power subsector
in Jordan was up to date and adequate, based on information and contact with
the Borrower during the previous three power projects.
X. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
10.01    In general, borrower performance has been satisfactory during both
the identification/preparation and implementation phases of the projects.
Some delays in implementation of the transmission and distribution parts could
be attributed to some initial lack of famriliarity with the Bank's procurement
procedures on the part of JEPCO. However, considering that JEPCO had no
previous experience working with the Bank its staff's overall performance is
satisfactory. Regarding the Aqaba thermal power station, the implementing
agency (JEA) was able to exercise effective control over the Project Engineer
and this enabled the project to be compleLed with minimal delays.  The
four-month delay in commercial operation of the plant (which is reduced to one
and one half month if certain initial problems during acceptance testing are
excluded) represent excellent performance by any standards for projects of
this size. Project management by the beneficiaries has been satisfactory in
both keeping cost and schedules under control. This applies indirectly to the
beneficiary in the case of the Aqaba station, where the construction
management and supervision was performed by the Consultant. The deployment of
staff and consultant resources on these projects was satisfactory although
areas of possible improvement were identified (e.g. more frequent monitoring
of consultants work, more attention to critical items, more careful sequencing
of activities).



-12-
XI. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
11.01    The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank had been firmly
established during the previous three projects and during the Energy Sector
Study carried out by the Bank in 1983. This long history of cooperation in
the power sector and the good relationships between the Borrower, its
co-financiers and contractors were useful in the speedy preparation, appraisal
and implementation of the projects.
XII. CONSULTANT SERVICES
12.01    Under Loan 1986-JO it was expected that JEA would need consultant
assistance in procurement, supervision of construction, erection and
inspection of project's works and equipment. During project execution it was
decided that, as JEA had developed in-house planning capabilities for rural
electrification, it would use its own staff instead of consultants for this
component. Consultant assistance for JEPCO would be for procurement,
supervision of construction,inspection of distribution equipment, preparation
of its organization and management review, and energy sector services. It was
later decided to undertake the latter under the Energy Development Loan
(2371-JO) (para 3.01 (d)).
12.02    Under Loan 2162-JO, JEA needed consultant assistance in Project
design, procurement, supervision of construction and erection, inspection of
works and equipment, and the initial operation of Project facilities,
12.03    Both JEA and JEPCO's consultants were actively involved in
procurement of goods and services required for the Project. JEPCO's
consultants (Kennedy and Donkin, UK) maintained a permanent resident office in
Jordan and actively assisted JEPCO in all matters regarding procurement and
supervision of construction and erection works. The management consultants
(Gilbert/Commonwealth, USA) were engaged by JEPCO on March 27, 1982 to perform
a management review of JEPCO and to help implement some of the recommendations
of such a review (Part III, Table 15). JEPCO's management is satisfied with
the work of the consultants and has proposed to retain Management Resources
International (MIRI), a successor organization to the management consulting
division of Gilbert/Commonwealth, for a follow-on phase being financed by the
Bank (about US$1.6 million in foreign costs) under the Sixth Power Project
(Loan 2710-JO). This phase is intended to provide further in-depth studies on
some topics identified under the earlier phase and to help JEPCO implement
some of its recommendations. The main areas of focus in the second phase are,
stores and inventory management, distribution planning and construction,
corporate financial modelling, corporate budgeting, corporate administration
and other miscellaneous services.
XIII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
13.01    Data relevant to PCR preparation were for the most part readily
available. Informaticn (on the part of the Bank) on procurement by contract
was not easily obtainable, pointing to the need for setting up a relevant data
base for procurement in the Bank. The Borrower's quarterly progress reports
contained accurate factual information, but more analysis of the problems
encountered would have made them more useful.



-13-
13.02    S¢mie of the information required for the table on staff inputs
planned and revised (Part I1I, Tables 18 and 19), and all the information
required for dollar costs per project (Part III, Table 22) is not available
from the MIS.
13.03    Implementation schedules (in chart format) in the appraisal report
were not very clear, and it was sometimes difficult to determine at a glance
the completion dates for various components.
XIV. SUMMARY AND LESSONS LEARNED
14.01    The projects achieved their principal objectives (paras. 7.01 and
7.02). Loan 1986-JO suffered some delays in implementation (paras. 6.01 and
6.02) whereas, Loan 2162-JO was substantially completed about one month ahead
of the original completion date (para. 6.03). Costs for both projects were
below appraisal estimates (paras. 4.01-4.04).
14.02    During the course of both projects there were sizeable benefits in
the areas of institution building (para. 7.04) and training (para. 7.06-
7.09). There is a clear movement towards less use of consultants by both JEA
and JEPCO which would also suggests growing institutional strength (para.
12.01 and Part III, Table 15).
14.03    JEPCO showed disappointment concerning dialogue and general bandling
of procurement matters with the Bank (Part II, page 16, paras. d-g). It also
raised frequent staffing changes of Bank supervision missions as a major
concern.
14.04    The Bank would have liked more action and feedback regarding
environmental issues (para. 7.15).
Lessons Learned
14.05    There were significant differences in the procurement procedures
normally practiced by JEA and JEPC(0 with regards to ICB according to Bank
guidelines. The problem was somewhat less for JEA since it was a repeat
borrower but with JEPCO the learning process involved was much more stressful
as indicated in JEPCO's comments (Part II, page 16, paras. d-g). Main lessons
learned under the projects are as follows:
(a) in order to avoid delays in procurement and project
implementation it is necessary to have a headstart with the
preparation of bid documents as early as possible following
appraisal;
(b) it is important for the beneficiary to acquire effective
in-house capability to handle all pro Arement mAtters, including
bid document preparation, opening of tenders, tender evaluation,
etc. through the delivery of goods or works completion;
(c) even when an experienced consultant is hired for project
management and supervision, close monitoring by the
bercficiary's own experienced and capable staff is necessary if
delays and tectnical errors are to be avoided.



-14-
(d)  for first-time borrowers/beneficiaries the Bank's supervision
efforts should include participation of implementing agency
staff in procurement and disbursement seminars in the country or
at the Bank. Such seminars are good channels of communication
between the Bank and its borrowers for understanding each
other's procedures, and in the end help promote better loan
administration. U'nder the Fourth Power Project only one such
seminar was conducted, and though a Procurement Specialist
helped the Beneficiary (JEPCO) in finalizing its bid documents,
apparently more such initiatives would have been welcome
(page 16, para. g); and
(e) the importance of staff continuity was once again emphasized
through experience under this project where the borrower felt
that there was inadequate continuity (para. 9.01 and Part II,
page 16, para. c). It is also crucial that when the supervision
team changes: (i) the new staff should be thoroughly debriefed
with regards to all aspects of the project; (ii) whenever
possible an overlap between staff should occur; and (iii) staff
should be conversant with positions taken by previous missions
on key issues so t1tat the Borrower does not receive mixed
signals.



-15-
PART II - BENEFICIARIES' COMMENTS
JORDAN
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
JEA
a.       The tables included in Part III of the PCR were updated and hence
they represent accurate factual information. Also this information was
discussed and agreed upon with the World Bank mission in Amman during their
visit to Jordan during the period November 20 - December 2, 1988.
b.       The analysis containel in Part I of the PCR was studied and discussed
with the World Bank mission and found complete and to our satisfaction.
c.       The Bank's performance, In general, is highly appreciated by JEA.
The appreciation resulted from the following which affected JEA staff
positively:-
1.   The method of collection of information and close follow up of
projects.
2.   Brief and accurate reports preparation.
3.   Specialization, where each mission member is specialized in his
work and no delays were encountered due to unnecessary overlap
and duplication.
4.   Respect for others abilities and capabilities which indirectly
encouraged JEA Staff for better achievements.
d.       We believe that JEA staff did their best to meet the requirements
(Technical and Commercial) needed by the project. This enthusiasm shown by
JEA staff will certainly reflect positive issues on the coming projects due to
the valuable experience gained by JEA staff. The JEA staff has shown their
readiness to carry out the real responsibilities and this was clear when they
decided to be the Engineer of their projects instead of using consultants.
Also JEA's technical and non technical staff were and are ready to bear the
consequences when they decided to split the project into many Contracts which
affected the JEA economic side positively, by approaching the suppliers
directly.
e.       The good relation as well as the best mutual understanding between
the World Bank staff and JEA staff were and are very effective and resulted in
fruitful cooperation which led to the implementation and execution of economic
and feasible projects in Jordan.



-16-
JEPCO
a.       Relevant tables in Part III of the PCR were reviewed and seem to be
in order.
b.       The analvsis in Part I was reviewed and seems clear and comprehensive.
c.       One of the main problems encountered during execution of the Project
was that there were frequent changes in staffing of Bank missions, each of
which adopted its own policies and practices, thus hampering the productivity
of the Project.
d.       The reviewing and approval of the General Conditions of Contract by
th Bank took six to seven months instead of the mere three weeks it usually
requires since there is nothing intellectual nor educational about it. This
was unfair to us by causing unnecessary delays in tendering.
e.       In awarding tte contract, it is customarily best to award on a
"complete item" basis. By insisting on lowest price awards in an absolute
fashion, the Bank caused our Consultant to recommend awards on a sub-item
basis per contract, thus breaking it up into rnumerous contracts. This caused
us a loss of not less than $0.25 million. The extra uncalled for expense was
incurred by adapting various parts of the equipment to each other and by
purchasing new items altogether. An example of this would be the steelwork
contract under said loan.  Furthermore, contract administration and management
costs amounted to high amounts due to the division of contracts.
f.       During the life of the loan, JEPCO, and the Bank failed to agree on
the allocation of some unallocated $0.45 millica, which were eventually
cancelled with no benefits gained. Both entlties are equally to blame for
this. A reason would be that all Bank missions conveyed their directions
verbally. And even though they did their best to honor their promises, yet
there was nothing documented on record. JEPCO, now insists that minutes of
meeting be exchanged on which both parties sign thus making matters binding.
This would be beneficial to the Ba. k, JEPCO, and their respective managements
and would facilitate the write-up of the fincl project report.  In addition,
the Bank adhered to the literal meaning of words, thus providing no
flexibility whatsoever in managing the Project.
g.       We had difficulties understanding the Bank's conditions regarding
payment by letters of credit. We had expressed the need for the Bank to send
a Disbursement Officer to clarify certain matters which they did not do, thus
leading to delays in the performance of the Project.
We feel that a lot of useful information regarding methodology was
not transferred to us for a maximum benefit from the loan.
h.       All components of this loan were undertaken.  The JEPCO system was
improved on. The JEPCO organization benefitted from the management studies
conducted and implemented, which reflected on us througn a much higher
standard of performance. Also, lessons were eventually learned regarding Bank
procedures.



-1 7-
PART II - CONTINUED
JORDAN
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Aqaba Power Station (ATPS) - JEA's Comments
The Performance of ATPS Project Contractors, Lender, Owner and Consultant
The work (ATPS Stage I) has been generally performed in accordance to
the contracts documents, consisting of the contract agreement, letter of
intent, contract specification.. .etc.
It is noted that the specification was written in a very detailed
manner. In future it should be reyiewed to be more suitable for more
International bidders, and to make sure that some other parts are more clear
to avoid any misunderstanding between the concerned during the project
implementation.
The project execution in the scheduled time covers the growth in
electrical demand as has been scheduled. In addition, the cost/kW of the
generated power is reduced since the efficiency of the new units is much
better than the existing units.
It is a fact that the final project cost including change orders are
approximately the same as the project awarded cost, the only major difference
was in the yard bill of quantity of the civil works contract.
The quality of the work as performed by the five contracts conform to
the requirements and is to the satisfaction of the owner.
Guarantees and performance of the equipments and the plant as
guaranteed by the contractors has been fulfilled without any deviation.
The project commercial operation target date was delayed for
approximately "4" months, but the unit synchronizing to tne grid was delayed
only for about "45" days.  Continuously supply of electricity has since been
provided to the grid without any trouble.  Since the electrici-y availability
date is considered the most important date for the owner, such minor and
negligible delay is nothing for this type of project.  The reasons for such
delays were almost beyond the contractors responsibilities such as, contract
award date, drawing availability and some other technical information.
Even so, all contractors did their utmost effort and best
cooperation, and they were able to reduce the foreseen delay by a reasonable
duration.
The consulting engineer had good references in thermal power station
projects execution.  In Aqaba the project was noted that he has not provided
the necessary manpower required to execute the work in due time which could
affect the work progress.  JEA expectation from the consultant engineer was
more than what was offered from them.



ls -
Although this project wa, the first to be  warded oni an Island basis
by the owner, the OWul 's statt worked very hard during the project execution
to minimize delays and solve arny problem which could affect the contract
progress.  It has bhen   l. oed also t h:t there were shortcomings in certain
fields activities such as cost estimate and quality control.  The success on
the execution ot this project by JEA should lead to the conclusion that JEA
future projects will be managed by local staff with very limited assistance
from consultants.
The relationslhip between the Bank and the Owner during the evaluation
and implementationi of thie project was excellent. It is noted that the
invoices were paid in due time withoLut any delay by the lender.  It is also
noted that the lender trusted the JEA team and their way of following and
controlling their projects.  This led to a limited interventionl in thie
project's activity and limited missions to JEA head office.



19
Part1
AnnexI4
HkA$HEM1TE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FQURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
{Loans 1986 and 2162 JO)
ieneficiarigs Comments on P4rt I and II                                               Action Taken
A. .I_A
1.  On page 2 under the project description of Fourth    1.  Changed name of substation from East Ghor to Subeihi
Project. East Ghor substation is mentioned in (i)             in para. 2.03 (a) (i) and (ii).
and (ii). Please change this to be Subeihi
Substation.
2.  On page 6 under para. 6.03.  The last paragraph           2.  Modified para. 6.03 to indicate that project was
should be modified as follows:                                substantially completed about-one month ahead of the
original completion date. Ho4ever, the original
The project was thus substantially completed             completion date (meaning conmissioning of power plant)
about one month ahead of the original                    given in the Loan Agreement was Oecember 31, 1986.  An
completion date of August 27. 1986.                      alternative definition of completion date is the date
of connecting the power plant to the grid. On the
basis of this latter definition. the original
completion date was August 1986. Thus on the basis of
either definition the project was substantially
completed about one month ahead of schedule.
3.  At the bottom of page 12, it is mentioned that            3.  While the quarterly progress reports provided .aseful
more analysis of the problems in the quarterly                up to date project impelementation data, more emphasis
progress reports would have made them more                    could also have been placed on analysis and explanation
useful.  You are requested to inform us the                   of variations from appraisal estimates of project
type of analysis you like to include in the                   costs, financing sources and key implementation dates
quarter report.                                               as well as on measures taken/required to overcome
implementation problems. Supervision missions for the
ongoing Sixth Power Project (Ln. 2710 JO) will discuss
with JEA off,- ,Is ways of strengthening the quarterly
progress reporting system.
4.  On page 18 it is mentioned that it has been noted    4.  No action required.  On the basis of revised project
that there were shot'comings in certain fields                costs the project's overall cost savings is now 14%.
such as cost estimate. Meanwhile, on page 3 it
is mentioned that the project's overall cost
savings is 12%. We believe that this divergence
is in the acceptable range.
5. On page 20 the year of approval of the energy              S.  Error has been corrected.
report is 1983 instead of 1993.
6.  Tables 10 and 11 related to the project costs             6.  Tables 10 and 11 have been modified on the basis of
and project financing should be modified as                   the revised data provided by JEA.
shown in the attached tables.
7.  In the financial part of the report, the                  7.  Revised calculations of self financing ratios to
following self financing ratios are mentioned                 include net non operating income in funds from internal
22. 27. 16 and 25 in 1981. 1982. 1985 and 1986                sources (in accord3nce with Project Agreement) which
respectively.  We believe that these ratios                   produces same ratios as indicated by JEA.  However,
should be changed as follows:  26.6. 31.4. 24.8               with the exception of 1981 when the ratio is revised
and 33.                                                       from 22% to 27% and thus exceeds the 25% required.
these changes do not alter the basic conclusion that
although JEA did not fully mect its financial
objectives on a year by year basis. its overall
performance was satisfactory (para. 7.10).
B.  JEPCO2'
1.  We have received your report of April S. 1989             1.  Revised Table 8 to include about US$0.48 for the
and we have reviewed it thoroughly.  We have no               organization and management review study and also the
comments other than the omission of the sum                   related para. 4.02.
disbursed to our management consultants (Gilbert)
on Table 8. Page 25. We shall provide you with
the exact figure ASAP.
I/  Comments by letter dated May 17. 198i
2/ Comments by telex of May 17, 1989.



PART III
STATISTICAL TABLES
FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
(Loans 1986 and 2162-JO)
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                                              Year of
Title                          Purpqse                Approval        Status
L. Hussein Thermal    Financing two 33 MW                FY 1973    PCR issued
Power P nject       steam power units and                         (June 29, 1981)
(Credit 386-JO)    one 13 MW gas turbine
at the Hussein thermal
power station.
2. Second Hussein      Financing a third 33 MW           FY 1975    PCR issued
Thermal Power       unit at the Hussein                           (June 29, 1981)
Project             Thermal Power station,
(Credit 570-JO)    reconditioning of the
Marga diesel power station
and the Southern Jordan
Power Development Study.
3. Transmissioi.       Financing the transmission        FY 1979    PCR issued
and Rural           network and rural                             (June 18. 1984)
Electritit-ation    electrification.
Loan 1688-JO
4. Energy Develop-    The project involves 5             FY 1984    Und
ment Project        components:  (a) power                        supervision.
Loan 2371-JO        distribution and electri-
fication of about 75
villages; (b) petroleum
exploration; (c) energy
audits in ten major industries;
(di renewable energy;
(e) energy planning; and
(f) consultant services and
training for all components.
Comments:  The principal achievements of the completed projects (Credit
386-JO, 570-JO and 1688-JO) include:  establishmeut of an
economical and reliable power supply service, the development of
JEA as an autonomous and financially viable entity responsible for
the whole power sector and the establishment of a tariff structure
broadly reflecting economic costs of supply. In addition, Bank
lending played a catalytic role in attracting investments in the
power sector by other cofinancing agencies such as the Kuwait and
Arab funds.



Loan/Credit                                                    Year of
Title                         Purpose                       Approval        Status
5. Power VI         Rehabilitationi atnd extensioni of         FY 1986    Under
Loan 2710-JO    urban distributiutn network;                            supervision.
electrification of 9r villages,
consulting services for construction
engineering, management information
system and diagnostic study of
distribution system.
Sector Reports
Energy Sector       To present an overview of the ener y       FY 1979    Yellow Cover
Memorandum          related institutions, primary energy
resources, petroleum refining,
electric power generation and energy
consumption patterns, in Jordan. It
then analyzes energy pricing policies
and the oil import bill and potential
energy issues and options are
discussed and recommendations made.
Energy Sector       The report indicaLes that high              FY 1983    Grey Cover
priority should be given by the
Government to the following main
sectoral issues: (a) development
of domestic energy resources;
(b) energy conservation; (c) energy
pricing; and (d) energy planning.
Detailed recommendations on how to
proceed on each of these issues are
given.
Energy Strategy    To update the 1983 Energy Sector             FY 1989    Initial
Update              Study.                                                 mission -
12/88; main
mission -
2/89; yellow
cover - 4/89.



-22-
FOURTH POWER _PROJECT
(Loan 1986-Jo)
Table 2. Proiect Timetable
Date           Date           Date
Item                       Planned        Revised        Actual
-   Identification (Executive                                           05/00/80
Project Summaty)
Preparation                                                         06/00/80
-   Appraisal Mission                                                   10/25/80
-   Loan Negotiations                                                   03/23/81
-   Board Approval                                                      05/07/81
-   Loan Signature                                                      06/22/81
Loan Effectiveness                    09/22/81       11/24/81)      03/17/82
01/29/82)
-   Loan Closing                          12/31/85       09/30/86       09/30/86
-   Loan Completion
Appraisal and Negotiations. The following major decisions were made: (a) the
loan was made to the Government for re-lending to JEA and JEPCO; and
(b) finalization of cofinancing package was not made a condition of
effectiveness.
Effectiveness. Delays in execution of the subsidiary Loan Agreements between
the Government and the Beneficiaries, JEA and JEPCO (the only condition of
effectiveness), due to new constitutional procedures. Subsequent delays were
encountered because of an error in the ratification of the Loan Agreement that
could only be corrected by repeating the ratification process.
Closing. By December 31, 1985 the original closing date, US$21.93 million or
87.7% of the loan has been disbursed. At the Government's request the Bank
agreed to extend the closing date to September 30, 1986 to enable the loan to
be fully disbursed. On September 30, 1986 the loan was closed and on April 2,
1987 the final disbursement was made and US$0.45 million was cancelled.



FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Table 3. Project Timetable
Date           Date          Date
Item                       Planned        Revised        Actual
Identification (Executive                                           09/00/79
Project Summary)
Preparation/Cofinancing Meeting                                     04/00/81
Preparation II                                                      06/00/81
Appraisal Mission                                                   09/10/81
Loan Negotiations                                                   04/05/82
Board Approval                                                      05/27/82
-   Loan Signature                                                      08/06/82
=   Loan Effectiveness                    12/06/82       03/06/83       03/04/83
Loan Closing                          12/31/87       12/3118R       12/31/88
-   Loan Completion
Negotiations. The following decisions were made: (a) At the Government's
request Bank agreed to finance a larger portion of the foreign exchange cost
of the civil works component and increased its loan from US$25 million to
US$35 million; and (b) signing of loan agreements between the Government and
official co-financers that would provide $85 million, and securing of final
commitment of US$30 million from the Saudi fund was a condition of
effectiveness.
Effectiveness. 3-months delay due to delays in signing of co-financing
agreements which was a special condition of effectiveness.
Closing. Due to the need to resolve initial technical and contractual issues
retention monies could not be paid until after the original closing date of
December 31, 1987. The Borrower, therefore, requested the Bank to extend the
loan closing date by one year to December 31, 1988 to allow for payment of
retention money to the contractors.



FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Table 4.  Cun,ulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
As of June 30                 1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Appraisal Estimate             2.00   10.00   21.00   24.00   25.00   25.00    25.00
Disbursement Profile           1.50    4.00    8.50   15.75   19.50   24.50    25.00
Actual                         0.00    4.00   15.51   19.48   23.45   24.55    24.55
Actual as % of Estimate        -       40.00   73.86   81.17   93.80   98.20 1/ 98.20
Actual as % of Disbursement
Profile                       0.00  100.00  182.00  124.00  120.00  100.00    98.20
Date of Final Disbursement    April 2, 1987
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Table 5. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
As of June 30                 1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Appraisal Estimate             3.50   14.00   22.00   30.00   34.00   35.00   35.00
Disbursement Profile           1.01    3.50    8.75   17.50   27.30   33.60   35.00
Actual                         0.00    6.72   14.90   25.59   31.92   35.00   35.00
Actual as % of Estimate        0.00   48.00   67.73   85.30   93.88  100.00  100.00
Actual as % of Disbursement
Profile                      0.00  192.00  170.00  146.00  117.00  104.00  100.00
Date of Final Disbursement    June 29, 1988
1/ Undisbursed balance of US$0.45 million was cancelled.



- I
FOU(RTH POWER PkOJFCT
(Loan 1986 10)
Table 6. Project Implementation
Appraisal              Actual (or
Indicators                      Estimate              PCR Estimate)
JEA
Contracts Awarded                     By December 1981        February 1982
Line Erection (for substations)    By September 1983          November 1983
Substations                           By September 1983       December 1984''
Rural Slectrification                 By December 1983        December 1985-3'
JEPCO
Contracts Awarded                     December 1981           December 1984/'
Delivery of Equipment                 March 1984              September 1986
Erection, Installation and
Commissioning                        December 1984           December 1986
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Table 7.  Project_Implementation
Appraisal              Actual (or
Indicators                      Estimate              PCR Estimate)
Power Station - Units 1/2
Civil Works - Completion              By March 85/Aug. 85   July 1988
Boiler Island - Commercial Op.        By Dec. 85/May 86       Dec. 3, 1986
Turbine Island - Commercial Op.    By Dec. 85/May 86          Dec. 3, 1986
Switch Yard - Commercial Op.          By Dec. 85/May 86       Feb. 1, 1986
Transmission Line
Contract Disc. and Award              By December 1982        By Oct. 22, 1983
Final Checking & Handing Over         By March 1986           January 1987
1/   Delays due to addition of two substations for Queeni Alia International
Airport, not originally included iti project (para. 3.01(b)).
2/   See para. 3.01(a).
3/   Delays in contract award (para. 6.02).



26-
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Table 8.  Proiect Costs
--Appraisal Estimate---    ---------Actual-----  Actual as %
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   F reig_   Total  of Appr. Est.
-----US$ Million -------   -----US$ Million-------
A. JEA
Transmission Lines      6.79       9.90   16.69    3.25       11.90    15.15        90.8
Substations             5.62      14.65   20.27    3.90       20.83    24.73       122.0
Rural Electrification  2.48        4.50    6.98    1.83         5.00     6.83       97.9
Engineering Services   0.59        1.16    1.75    -           0.90      0.90       51.4
Training                0.16       0.45    0.61    0.05        -         0.05k'      8.2
Total A             15.64      30.66   46.30    9.03       38.63    47.66       102.9
B. JEPCO
Urban Distribution      9.22      14.29   23.51    4.66        14.21    18.87       80.3
Rural Electrification  2.86        3.83    6.69    1.54        5.33      6.87      102.7
Low Cost Housing        0.72       1.35    2.07    0.20        0.78      0.98       47.3
Engineering Services   0.63        0.91    1.54    0.15        0.53      0.68       44.2
Org. & Mgmt. Review    0.13        0.25    0.38    0.16        0.32      0.48      126.3
Trainitig               0.03       0.13    0.16    0.06        0.10      0.16      100.0
Total B             13.59      20.76   34.35    6.77       21.27    28.04        81.6
C. Energy Dept. (MIT)
Consultant Services    0.17        0.30    0.47    -           -         -2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        29.4      51.72   81.12   15.80        59.90    75.70        93.3
1/ Training for certain components (ex. substations) was included in the price of the
contract.
2/ This component is being dealt with under Loan 2371-JO (para. 3.01(d)).



-2 7
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Table 9. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                Actual
Project Costs           Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
- _-Ö_________--ÖUS$ Mi1lion----------
(a) JEA
(i) JEA's Cash Generation  12.84       3.46k'  16.30    3.03       8.03    11.06
(ii) Kuwait Fund              -        18.00    18.00    3.80    15.70    19.50
(iii) Large Consumers'
Contributions           2.80      4.20      7.00    2.20      9.90    12.102
(iv) Proposed Bank Loan       - _       5.00      5.00    _         5.00      5.00
Subtotal                15.64    30.66    46.30    9.03    38.63    47.66
(b) JEPCO
(i) JEPCO's Cash Gen.         7.76     0.76"'  8.52    6.77        1.72     8.49
(ii) New Shares                5.83     -         5.83    -         -         -
(iii) Proposed Bank Loan        - _    20.00    20.00    -          19.55    19.55-
Sutbtotal               13.59    20.76    34.35    6.77    21.27    28.04
(c) Energy Dept._(MIT)
Government                0.17      0.30      0.47    -         -        -
TOTAL                          29.40    51.72    81.12   15.80    59.90    75.70
I/ JEA and JEPCO would provide funds in local currency and the Government
would allocate the equivalent foreign currencies.
2/ Large Consumers. In addition to the Jordan Valley Authority and the Sahab
Industrial Estate the following also contributed: Ministry of Transport
and the Water Authority.
3/ Original loan amount was $20 million. Above US$0.45 million remained
undisbursed at Loan Closing Date and was cancelled.



-28-
FfFlrH POWER PROJECT
(I.oan 2162-JO)
Table 10. Project Costs
---Appraisal Estimate--   --Current Estimate 1/--  Actual as 7.
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  of Appr. Est.
-----US$ Million---           -US$ Million-------
A. Aqaba Power Station
Site investigation &
marine survey          0.16       0.22    0.38    1.00        -         1.00      263.1
Civil works            21.98      50.26   72.24   29.10       35.70    64.80        89.7
Boiler Island &
Fuel Oil Tanks         8.77      83.04   91.81    8.70       62.72    71.42        77.8
Turbo/Gen. Island       5.18      71.48   76.66   10.20       67.10    77.30       100.8
Switchyard Island       1.05       8.78    9.83    3.40        3.80      7.20       73._
Engineering Services   1.92        5.85    7.77    2.00        8.'10    10.50      135.1
Housing                 2.80       -        2.80    5.60       -         5.60      200.0
Total A             41.86    219.63  261.49   60.00    1_7.82   237.82           90.8
B. Transmission Line
Conductors              -         15.89   15.89    -          12.70    12.70        79.9
Insulators              -          6.36    6.36    -           5.12      5.12       80.5
Towers & Erection      23.48      14.05   37.53    4.24       18.38    22.62        60.3
Engineering Services   1.22        1.75    2.97    0.01        0.81      0.82       27.6
Total B             24.70      38.05   62.75    4.25       37.01    41.26        65.8
C. Total Proiect Cost
Power Station          41.86    219.63  261.49   60.00    177.82   237.82           90.9
Transmission Line      24.70      38.05   62.75    4.25       37.01    41.26        65.e
Total C             66.56    257.68  324.24   64.25    214.83   279.08           86.1
1/ Exchange rate $1.00 = JDO.36.



FIFTPI' POWEk PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Table 11. Project _inancing
_Apraisal Estimate                 Actual
Pro_ect Costs            Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
--------------------US$ Million------------------
Power Station
(i) JEA's Cash Gen.         66.60    15.301/  81.90   60.00        -        60.00
(ii) Kuwait Fund              -        36.00    36.00    -         32.00    32.00
(iii) Iraqi Fund               -        10.00    10.00    -          -         -
(iv) Arab Fund                -        18.00    18.00    -         16.00    16.00
(v) Islamic Bank             -        11.00    11.00    -          -         -
(vi) OPEC Fund                -        10.00    10.00    -         10.00    10.00
(vii) Export Dev. and
Suppliers' Credits       -       92.40    92.40    -          25.10    25.10
(viii) KfW                      -         -         -       -         3.60      3.60
(ix) IBRD                     -        35.00    35.00    -         35.00    35.00
(x) Italiani Sott Loan       -         -        -                 23.75    23.75
(xi) Italiani (onum. Loan                         _                32.37    32.37
66.60   227.70   294.30   60.00   177.82   237.82
Transmission Line
(xii) Saudi Fund               -        30.00    30.00    4.25    16.81    21.06
(xiii) U.K. Grant               -         -         -       -         5.20      5.20
(xiv) U.K. Commercial Loan   -_          -         -       -        15.00    15.00
-       30.00    30.00    4.25    37.01    41.26
TOTAL                          66.60   257.70   324.30   64.25   214.83   279.08
1/ JEA would provide funds in local currency and the Governmsent would allocate
the equivalent foreign currencies.



-30-
F'OURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986 JO)
Table 12. Direct Benefits
Indicators                          Appraisal             Actual
No. of villages electrified                           50                 56
No. of consumers connected                             -              5,177
No. of inhabitants                               23,000              37,000
Low cost Housing Developments
- No. of inhabitants                             28,000              18,000
(See page 52 of appraisal report, pp ii of President's report.)
Table 13. Economic Impact
Appraisal                Revised
Estimate                 Estimate
Economic Rate of Return
(a) Loan 1986-JO                    21.0% (9.0%)              22.2% (10.5%)
(b) Loan 2162-JO                    10.4%                     13.1%
Underlying Assumpt.ions
i. Capital costs expressed in terms of 1987 prices,
2. Benefits based on incremental revenues using an average tariff to
final consumers of 25.5 Fils/kWh.
3. Fuel costs based on actual consumption of 0.22 kg/kWh and on currnt
fuel price of heavy fuel oil of US$75.0/metric ton with an annual
escalation in real terms of 3%.
4. Distribution investments based on current estimates of the economic
cost of distribution investments of 3.0 Fils/kWh sold.
Cormnents:
1.  Figures in parenthesis for Loan 1986 are the estimated rates of return
for the rural electrification component only whereas those outside the
parenthesis are for the investment program for the period 1981-85.
2. The favorable revised economic rates of return for both projects are
attributable to lower investment costs compared to appraisal estimates
and lower international oil prices since the projects were appraised.
3. The reasonably high econoimc rate of return estimates confirm the high
level of average tariffs in relation to economic costs.



FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
(Loans 1986 and 2162-JOI
Table 14. Financial Impact
---1981---     ---1982*--      ---1983--       ---1984---    ---1985---    ---1986---    ---1987---
Coy.  Act      Cov   Act       Cov.  Act._ ov.  A.    Cov   Acto Cov.  Ac                       .  Act
Self-financing level (%)  25    27           25    31       25    42        35    29       35    25        35 I/ 33        35 1/ 13
JEPCO
Self-financing level l%)                     25    57       25    28        35    47       35    21        35 2/ 47        35 2,' 44
1/ Revised under Loan 2710-JO (Power VI) to 25% for 1986-87, 30% for 1987-88 and 35% for subsequent years.
2/ Revised under Loan 2710-JO to 25% in 1986 and 1987, 30% in 1988 and 35% in 1989 and subsequent years.
PM



3:'
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Table 15. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at
!paraisal                  Status
Studies
Organization and            To recommend improvements in           Completed
Management Study            JEPCO's organization, billing
system and management practices;
and after taking into account
the Bank's comments, to
implement promptly the consultants'
recommendations.
Impact of Study. This study made several recommendations for improvements
most of which have either been or are being implemented. These included the
purchase of an inhouse computer, design of an accounting and management
information system and improvement of management and organization procedures.
Among the most important of the organizational improvements is that the
Consultant's Department is now "inhouse". Two of JEPCO's engineers and a
number of secretaries now undertake the consulting services for both technical
and contractual matters related to IBRD - and refer to outside consultants
only when necessary. The design of the accounting system provided an
opportunity for the power sector organizations to increase cooperation by
working together on a committee to ensure uniformity of their accounting
systems.
Comments. The consultants that undertook the study were Messrs. Gilbert
Commonwealth Int. of the USA. The study was completed in a timely manner and
both JEPCO and the Bank were satisfied with it.



-3 4-
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Table 16.  Status of Covenants
L.A./P.A. Ref                    Covenant                     Status of Compliance
1. L.A. 3.02   Government to re~view with the              Superseded by No. 3.02 of
Bank not later than June 30,               the Fifth Power Project.
1982 a plan for strengthening
the planning and management of
the energy sector.
2. L.A. 3.03   Government to employ by December            Complied with.
31, 1981 consultants to assist in
decision making on energy matters.
3. L.A. 4.03   Government agreed to cause its              Complied with.
departments and agencies to pay
all their outstanding bills as of
June 1981 by September 1981 and to
pay all subsequent blils within
6 weeks of their issuance.
4. L.A. 4.04    Government undertook to take all             Substantially complied
measures necessary to ensure that          with.
JEA and JEPCO complied with the
provisions of No. 4.03 of their
respective project agreements.
5. P.A. 3.02   JEA - to take appropriate actions           Complied with.
to strengthen its t!.anning
department and inform the Bank by
December 31, 1981 of proposed
actions to develop adequate power
subsector planning capabilities
and thereafter implement such
actions in consultation with the
Bank.
JEPCO - to employ by December 31,          Complied with although
1981 consultants satisfactory to           consultants were
the Bank to recommend by 12/31/82          engaged about 3 months late.
improvements in JEPCO's                    Some recommendations
organization, billing and                  already implemented and
management practices and to                others under implementation.
promptly implement the recommendation
of the consultants taking into
account the Bank's comments.



-34-
L.A./P.A. Ref                    Covenant                    Status of Compliance
6. P.A. 3.03   JEA - to prepare a staff training           Complied with.
program and start implementing
it by SeptemLer 1, 1981.
JEPCO - to submit to the Bank by           Complied with.
March 31, 1982 for its review
and comments or plan to develop
its technical and financial
planning capabilities and
thereafter implement such a plan
in consultation with the Bank.
7. P.A. 3.04   JEPCO - to submit to the Bank by            Complied with.
December 31, 198 _ a staff training
program and thereafter implement
such a program on the basis of a
schedule acceptable to the Bank.
8. P.A. 4.02   Both JEA and JEPCO to furnish to            Complied with.
the Bank audited financial
statements together with the
auditor's report thereon no later
than four months after the end of
each year.
9. P.A. 4.03   JEA - to achieve self-financing             Substantially complied
levels of 25% in 1981-3, and 35%           with.
in 1984 and all subsequent years.
JEPCO - to achieve self-financing          Substantially complied
levels of 25% in 1982-3 and 35% in         with.
1984 and all subsequent years.
10. P.A. 4.04   Both JEA and JEPCO to review their          Substantially complied
financial forecasts for each year          with.
no later than three months before
the start of the year with a view
to identifying measures required
to comply with the provisions of
P.A. 4.03 of their rcroective P.A.s.
'I. P.A. 4.05   Both JEA and JEPCO not to contract          Substantially complied
any new long-term debt without             with.
consulting the Bank if on the basis
of financial forecasts the net
revenues would be less than 1.5
times the debt service requirements
(including debt service on the
proposed new debt) in any year in
which the proposed new debt would
be outstanding.



- I L
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Table 17. Status of Covenants
L.A./P.A. Ref                    Covenant                     Status of Compliance
1. L.A. 3.02   Government to review with the Bank          Complied with.
not later than June 30, 1983, JEA's
plan for strengthening power
subsector planning capabilities as
required under No. 3.02 of LA 1986-JO
including institutional arrangements
for the energy sector proposed in
that plan.
2. L.A. 3.03   Government undertook to complete no         Not complied with
later than March 31, 1986                  (para. 6.04).
construction of a pipeline between
Zarqa and Aqaba for the transfer of
fuel oil to the power station
including in the project.
3. L.A. 3.04   Government to take all action               Substantially complied
necessary to enable JEA to                 with.
(a) implement tariffs and other
measures agreed under No. 3.04 of
P.A.;
(b) comply with the provisions of
No. 4.03 and 4.04 of the P.A.; and
(c) to reach agreement required
under P.A. 3.05.
4. L.A. 4.02   Government to continue ensuring that    Complied with.
JEA pays the domestic price of
fuel oil.
5. L.A. 4.03   Government to take all action               Government showed
required to enable JEA to increase         reluctance to allow JEA
its electricity tariffs to reflect         to automatically adjust
future increases in its fuel cost.         its tariffs on account of
fuel price increases and
occasionally compensated
JEA by way of direct
subsidies.



-36-
L.A./P.A. Ref                    Covenant                     Status of Compliance
6. P.A. 3.04   JEA required to:                             Substantially complied
(a) complete by December 31, 1982          with.
an investigation of the impact on
consumption and revenues of
increasing block rates in the
tariff structure applicable to LV
consumers;
(b) review the outcome of the
investigation jointly with the
Bank by December 31, 1982 and to
implement agreed recommendations
with a view to assist JEA in
achieving its financial objectives.
7. P.A. 3.05   JEA to reach agreement with the              Facilities are avail-
agency operating the Aqaba industrial   able for JEA's use.
port facilities to enable such
facilities to be available to JEA as
an alternate for unloading its fuel
oil.
8. P.A. 3.06   JEA to undertake measures:                   Complied with.
(a) not later than December 31, 1982
to further improve its planning
activities;
(b) not later than March 31, 1983 to
strengtheni its financial and
accounting department.
9. P.A. 4.02   JEA required to:
(a) have its financial statements          Complied with.
audited by auditors acceptable
to the Bank;
(b) submit certified copies of its         Complied with.
financial statements together
with the auditor's report thereon
to the Bank no later than four
months after the end of each
year; and
(c) to provide the Bank with such          Complied with.
other information as it may
reasonably request from time to
time.
10. P.A. 4.03   JEA to take all measures necessary           Substantially
to ensure achieveness of internal          complied with.
cash generation levels of 25% in
1982 and 1983 and 35% in 1984 and
all subsequent years.



-37-
L.A./P.A. Ref                    Covenant                   Status of Compliance
11. P.A. 4.04   JEA to review its financial                Substantially complied
fore~casts for each year, starting        with.
the year ending December 31, 1982,
not later than three months before
the start of the year with a view
to identifying measures required
to comply with requirements of
P.A. 4.03 and to consult with the
Bank before implementing such
measures.
12. P.A. 4.05   JEA not to contract new long-term          Complied with.
debt without consulting the Bank if
on the basis of financial forecasts
its net revenues would be less
than 1.5 times its debt service
requirements (including debt service
on the proposed new debt) in any
year in which the proposed debt
would be outstanding.



-38--
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Use of Bank Resources
Table 18. Staff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
Stage of            --Planned--    --Revised--    -Total 1-
Project Cycle         NQ    Field    HQ + Field    Comments
Upto Appraisal            -        -      -        -            12.7
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                                  79.0
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness                  -       -                        2/
Supervision               -        -      -        -            38.3
Total                     -        -      -        -           130.0
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2162-JO)
Table 19. Staff Inputs
Stage of            --Planned--    --Revised--    -Total If-
Proiect Cycle         !D    Field    HQ    Field    HQ + Field    Comments
Upto Appraisal            -        -      -        -            L4.3
Appraisal through
Board Approval            -        -      -        -            52.3
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness             -        -      -        -            2/
Supervision               -               -        -            32.9
Total                     -        -      -        -            99.5
1/ The MIS does not show "Planned" and "Revised" figures for historical data,
nor is it possible to get a separate breakdown for "HQ" and "Field" for
historical information.
2/ The MIS does not track time separately for Board Approval through
effectiveness. Once a project goes to the Board, time is recorded under
supervision.



-39-
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1986-JO)
Table 20. Missions
Stage of            Month/     Number of    Days in    Perf. Rating        Type of
Project Cycle          Year       Persons       Field        StaLus          Problems
I. Through Appraisal
Identification-s        05/80           2           9
Coordinating Mtg.
Missioni'              05/80           1            2
Appraisal               10/80           4           20
II. Appraisal Through Board
Prior to Neg.           02/81           1            6
Training Msn.           04/81           1            6
III. Board Through Effectiveness4'
IV. Supervision
Supervision Is          12/81           2           10             2           M, F
II,'       06/82           1           14              2          M, F
It     III"        10/82           1           8              2           M, F
It    IV,/        04/83           2           25              2M,F
of     V71         12/83           2          20              2           M, F
;'  VI"    04/84           2           19              2           F,M
VII'      09/84           2           17              2           F. M
VIII3'     09/85           3           12              2           F,M
IX3'       07/86           3           27              2
V. PCR Mission-/          11/88           3           10
1/ With supervision of Lns. 386/570/1688-JO.
2/ Coordinating meeting held in Brighton with JEA, National Planning Council of Jordan
(NPC) and consultants (Preece, Cardew and Rider).
3/ Mission undertaken by Bank's Training Specialist to review with JEA and JEPCO their
training programs for managerial, technical, financial and admin. staff.
4/ No missions held. There was a one day procurement seminar conducted by the staff
who were then in the field for appraisal of the Fifth Power Project.
5/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loan 1688-JO. After 6/88 mission staff member
went to Jordan for 2 days for finalize JEPCO's bid documents with its consultants,
Kennedy and Donkin.
6/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loans 1688-JO and 2162-JO.
7/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loan 2162-JO.
8/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loans 2162-JO and 2371-JO. Id/Prep. of Power
VI (9/85).
9/ With supervision of Ln. 2710-JO and Energy Sector Study Update.
M = Managerial
F = Financial



-4(0
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2 162-JO)
Table 21. Missions
Stage of            Month/      Number of    Days in    Perf. Rating        Type of
Project Cycle          Year        Persons       Field        Status          Problems
I. Through Appraisal
Identification '        09/79           2           10
Coordinating Mtg.       04/81            2            4
Preparation             06/81            2            8
Appraisal               09/81            4           20
II. Appraisal Through Board
Donor's Meeting- 7        ZZk$L          2            2
III. Board Through Effectiveness
Donor's Meeting-        06/82            2            2
IV. Supervision
Supervision I2'         10/82            1            8              1           M, F
"   III/   04/83            2          25               1           M, F
III,/      12/83            2           20              1           M, F
IV,'       04/84            2           19              2           M, F
"  V4'     09/84            2           17              2           M, F
VI4'       09/85            2           12              2           F
VII-'      07/86            3           27              1
VIIIl'     02/88            2           17              1
V. PCR Mission6'           11/88           3           10
1/ With supervision of Loans 386/570/1688-JO.
2/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loan 1688-JO and 1986-JO.
3/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loan 1986-JO.
4/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loan 2371-JO and 1986-JO and Td./Prep. of
Power VI  (9/85).
5/ Includes time spent on supervision of Loan 2710-JO.
6/ With supervision of Ln. 2710-JO and Energy Sector Study Update.
M = Managerial
F = Financial



- I
FOURTH AND FIFTH POWER PROJECTS
(Loans 1986 and 2162-JO)
Table 22. Costs (if available from MIS)
Total $ Cost       Average $ Cost          Ave. $ Cost of
Stage of               of Staff         of HQ Activities         Field Activity
Project Cycle           _   p_its _    per Mission Member    per Mission Member
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval                               Not available
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision



