WMICIAIh
DOCUMEN1S      LOAN NUMBER 2162 JO
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     A&-                        ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2162 JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    /     ^, 1982, between THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources of finance (hereinafter called the Co-Financiers) loans
or credits (hereinafter called the Co-Financiers' Loans or
Credits) in an aggregate amount equivalent to about two hundred
million   dollars    ($200,000,000)   (hereinafter    called   the
Co-Financing Amount) to assist in financing the Project, on the
terms and conditions to be set forth in agreements (hereinafter
called the Co-Financiers' Agreements) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Co-Financiers;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Jordan
Electricity   Authority   (hereinafter   called  JEA)   with   the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to JEA the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and JEA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Apr'icable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein   set  forth   and  the   following
ad6itional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and JEA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and JEA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Jordanian Dinar" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "JEA Law" means the Jordan Electricity Authority Law
No. 21 of 1967 of the Borrower establishing JEA, as amended by
Law No. 46 of 1973 and as further amended by General Electricity
Law No. 8 of 1976, and as the same may be further amended from
time to time;
(e) "Aqaba industrial port facilities" means the industrial
berth at the Aqaba Port of the Borrower; and
(f) "Previous Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement for
the Fourth Power Project, concluded between the Borrower and the
Bank on June 22, 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expend-
itures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Eirrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to five hundred
twenty-five thousand dollars ($525,000).    The fee shall be pay-
able in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.10. The Director General of JEA is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Withou  any limitation or restrict".on upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause JEA to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of JEA therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable JEA to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
JEA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank
pursuant to which JEA shall, inter alia: (i) repay the equivalent
in terms of Jordanian Dinars of the proceeds of the Loan 'o
relent (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
dates of repayment by JEA of the proceeds of the Loan so relent)
in equal or approximately equal annual or semiannual installments
over a period of seventeen years, including a grace period of
five years; and (ii) pay interest at the rate of 11-3/5% per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall review with the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1983, the plan referred to in Section 3.02 of


﻿-5-
the   Previous  Loan   Agreement,  including   the   institutional
arrangements for the energy sector contained in said plan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to complete not later
than March 31, 1986, the construction of a pipeline between Zarqa
and Aqaba for the transfer of fuel oil to the power station
included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary to enable JEA: (a) to implement the tariffs
and other measures agreed under Section 3.04 of the Project
Agreement; (b) to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.03 and
4.04 of the Project Agreement; and (c) to reach the agreement
referred to in Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement.
A'XTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under - the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public "ssets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-6-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue to ensure that JEA
will be charged the domestic price of fuel oil.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action required to
enable JEA to increase its electricity tariffs so as to reflect
future increases in its fuel cost.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) JEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occured after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that JEA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The JEA Law shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of JEA to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) JEA shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceedings shall have been taken by JEA
or others whereby any of the property of JEA shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.


﻿-7-
(e) The agreements providing for the amounts referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement shall have failed to become
e:*fective by March 31, 1983, or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank may agree.
(f) The Borrower shall have failed, by December 31, 1982,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree, to
conclude the Co-Financiers' Agreements required to secure the
remaining of the Co-Financing Amount referred to in Recital B
hereof, or any such Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1983, or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank may agree.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any of the Co-Financiers' Loans
or   Credits   shall  have   been   suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such Loan or Credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and JEA.


﻿-8-
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e),
(f) and (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and JEA; and
(b) Co-Financiers' Agreements providing for an amount equi-
valent to not less than $85,000,000 have been signed between the
Borrower and the Co-Financiers, and final commitments, in a form
satisfactory to the Bank, for another amount equivalent to not
less than $30,000,000 have been obtained by the Borrower from the
Co-Financiers.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by JEA, and is legally binding upon JEA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and JEA and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and JEA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date3 A)"-e4'r G, )J l , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the President of the National Planning Council of the


﻿-9-
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower f-? the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Jordan
Cable address:                     Telex:
NPC                              21319 JO
Amman
For the Bank:
international Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the. day and year
first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By              "
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B y   / ( (     LAL Q
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to such Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                  % of
.(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category               Do1lar Equivalent)          to be Financed
Civil works                35,000,000                 50%
TOTAL    35,000,000
2.   The   disbursement  percentages   have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   If  the Bank   shall have   reasonably   determined  that  the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other


﻿- 12 -
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of JEA's power system development
program for the years 1982 through 1986. The Project consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of a seawater-cooled steam power station in
Aqaba; the first stage of such station, to be completed by the
end of 1986, consists of two 130-MW oil-fueled generating units
and accessories.
Part B:
Installation of a 400-kV transmission line (about 320 km
long) from Aqaba to Amman, to be operated initially at 132 kV.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1987
through   January 15, 1999                   1,345,000
On July 15, 1999                                  1,375,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                           4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                   10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                   11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  6L   . day of z     , - , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


