Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19133 LV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3 1.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1999
ECSHD
ECCO9
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit = Lats (LVL)
LVL 1.0 = US$ 1.67
EUR 1.0 = US$1.10
US$ 1.0 = LVL 0.6
FISCAL YEAR:
January 1 - December 31, 1999
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy         NS        National Shopping
ECA      Europe and Central Asia             PAD       Project Appraisal Document
ELT      English Language Training           PHRD    Population and Human Resources
EQ       Equipment                                     Development (Japanese Grant)
EU       European Union                      Pi        Pedagogical Institutes
FSU      Former Soviet Union                 PIP       Project Implementation Plan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product              PMU       Project Management Unit
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction  PVQ   Price-Volume-Quality [contracts]
and Development                    QCBS    Quality and Cost-Based Selection
ICB      International Competitive Bidding   RSB       Regional School Board
ICR       Implementation Completion Report   SA        Social Assessment
IDA       International Development          SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
Association                        SC        Steering Committee
IFC      International Finance Corporation   SCQ       Selection under Consultant
IT       Information Technology                        Qualification
MAT       Material                           SFB       Selection under Fixed Budget
MIS       Management Information System      TA        Technical Assistance
MES      Ministry of Education and Science   VAT       Value Added Tax
MOF       Ministry of Finance                WG        Working Group
Vice President:     Johannes Linn
Country Director:     Basil Kavalsky
Sector Leader:     James Socknat
Team Leader:       Fredrick L. Golladay



Latvia
Education Improvement Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ....................................................................                                              6
1. Project development objectives and key performance  indicators  ........                                          ..............    6
B.  Strategic  Context  ....................................................................                                                        6
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project  .............                                   ...........................     6
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy   ...............                                  ...............................       7
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices  ........                                       ..............    9
C.  Project Description  Summary   ....................................................................                                           11
1. Project components . ....................................................................  1
2.  Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project  .........                                      ..................  12
3. Benefits and target population   ................................................................                                  12
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements  ..............                                    ..............................   12
5. Project Implementation  Plans and  Steering Committee  ...........                                       .........................  13
D. Project Rationale   ....................................................................                                                       13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection   ..........                                     .......................  13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  ..... 15
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design   ..........                                      ....................... 15
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership   ............                                       ........................... 15
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project  ..................                                ............................... 16
E. Summary Project Analyses ..................................................................... 16
1. Economic   ....................................................................  16
2. Financial  ....................................................................  17
3. Technical ........                                                                                                                  17
4. Institutional ........ 18
5. Social ........ 18
6. Environmental assessment .........................                                                                                  18
7. Participatory approach .........................                                                                                   18
F. Sustainability and Risks ......................... 19
1. Sustainability .........................                                                                                           19
2.. Critical risks ........ 19
3. Possible controversial aspects ...................... 20



G. Main Loan Conditions ......................... 20
1. Effectiveness conditions ......................... 20
2. Other ......................... 20
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                           21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................... 22
Annexes
Annex 1.             Project Design Summary .23
Annex 2.             Detailed Project Description .34
Annex 3.             Estimated Project Costs .40
Annex 4.             Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .41
Annex 5.             Financial Summary .43
Annex 6.             Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .46
Table A.             Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .48
Table B.             Schedule of Procurement Arrangements .49
Table C.             Summary of Procurement Arrangements .53
Table D.             Allocation of Loan Proceeds .55
Table E.             Schedule of Loan Disbursements .56
Annex 7.             Development of Project Financial Management System .57
Annex 8.             Project Processing Budget and Schedule .59
Annex 9.             Documents in Project File .60
Annex 10.            Statement of Loans and Credits .61
Annex 11.            Country at a Glance .62
Project Organizational Chart
Map: IBRD-30010



Page 5
Republic of Latvia
Education Improvement Project:
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office (ECC09)
Date: MARCH 27, 1999                            Program Team Leader: FREDRICK L. GOLLADAY
Country Director: BASIL KAVALSKY                Sector Leader: JAMES SOCKNAT
Project ID: LV-PE-49172  Sector:                Program Objective Category:
EDUCATION             ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Lending Instrument:                             Program of Targeted            [X]  Yes  [ ] No
SPECIFIC INVESTMENT LOAN                        Intervention:
Project Financing Data                [X] Loan    [  Credit   [  Guarantee [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$31.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
Proposed terms:                          [    Multi-currency     [X] Single currency, EURO
Grace period (years): 3               []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed       [X ] LIBOR-based
Years to maturitv: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Service charge: 1% of loan amount
Financing plan (USSm):
Source                          Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                            2.5               0.1              2.6
Regional School Boards (RSB)/Municipalities  i        5.5               0.5              6.0
IBRD                                                 24.3               6.8             31.1
Other                                                 0.0               0.2              0.2
Total !      32.3               7.6            39.9
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     2000      2001  1 2002       2003      2004      2005
Annual   3.8         4.1       5.0      5.6       7.1       2.5
Cumulative    3.8        7.9     12.9     21.5      28.6      31.1
Project implementation period: 5 YEARS
Expected effectiveness date: AUGUST 4, 1999
Expected closing date: SEPTEMBER 30, 2004
OAD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 6
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's specific development objectives are to improve energy efficiency and space
utilization of educational facilities and to build and strengthen institutional management capacity
to assess and promote quality learning. The goal of the project is to increase capacity within the
Latvian education sector for continuous improvement of education outcomes by strengthening
the management of both resource inputs and the learning process.
The proposed loan would support two clusters of activities. The first cluster would help
to strengthen capacity to identify and correct inefficiencies in the use of resources.
Specifically, it would assist the MES and regional authorities in repairing and renovating school
buildings in order to reduce recurrent costs. The project would assist the development of
procedures for identifying priority needs, designing cost-effective interventions, and financing
minor capital works. The second cluster of activities would help build capacity to strengthen the
learning process. The project would assist the MES and regional school boards in developing
(a) content and performance standards; (b) an assessment system for grade 9; (c) a strategy for
disseminating the results of these assessments to major groups of stakeholders; (d) the capacity
of schools to identify their weakness and to formulate initiatives to improve learning outcomes;
and (e) policy analytic capacity in the MES.
Performance Indicators:
1. Regional school boards will develop yearly plans based on established guidelines to
increase the cost-effectiveness of the education process beginning with a reduction in
operating costs of at least ten (10) percent through measures to reduce energy
consumption.
2. Recurrent budget expenditures for energy, teaching staff, and building maintenance
will be decreased by ten (10) percent by end 2002 for the 100-120 schools to
participate in the project.
3. National content and performance standards in two areas (Latvian Language and
Social Studies) will be developed for grades 3, 6, and 9 are implemented by school
year 2002-2003.
4. Student achievement assessments will be conducted annually for grade 9 in Latvian
Language (two versions: native Latvian and non-native Latvian) from 2001 on.
5. School improvement model will be developed, tested and implemented in all project
schools by school year 2002-2003.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17706LV   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 19, 1998
The CAS identifies five areas in which the Bank intends to provide support to the
Government: (a) improving macro economic management; (b) promoting private sector
development; (c) redefining the role of the state; (d) developing the capacities of sub-national
governments; and (e) improving the delivery of social services, including education.
The proposed Education Improvement Project would contribute to objectives (d) and (e)
by improving the delivery of education services by strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of
Education and Science and sub-national governments to control costs and to identify and
implement measures to continuously improve learning.



Page 7
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Latvia regained control of its education system in 1991 after nearly a half century of
central direction and control by the Soviet authorities. Prior to Latvia's return to independence,
central planners had determined the aims of education in response to the requirements of the
Soviet state, and allocated resources to educational activities without deliberately considering
costs or effects. As a result, Latvia inherited an education system that not only failed to address
the needs of its society and economy, but also operated at a very high cost.
Upon becoming independent Latvia created a central Ministry of Education and Science
(MES) and then embarked on the task of defining national goals for education. At the same time,
the Government of Latvia redesigned the structure of government, emphasizing grassroots
democracy and placing responsibility for the delivery of social services on sub-national
government units.
The MES has made significant progress in achieving consensus on a national education
policy. A sub-national structure of government administration has been created that relies on 26
regions to coordinate activities and implement programs that are shared by lower levels of
government. Latvia also created seven cities and 583 village-level local governments to supply
public services including general education, health care, social protection and municipal services.
The creation of a very large number of local governments has produced diseconomies of small
scale operation, over-stretched management capacity, and diffused responsibility for
performance. These effects have driven up costs and have led to efforts to simplify the structure
of local government by consolidating small local government units.
Issues
The principal challenges now facing the education system of Latvia are to control costs,
to increase the relevance and quality of the curriculum, and to improve student learning.
Control Costs. Latvia's public education system employs nearly twice as many teachers
and administrators, and occupies almost twice as much building space per student as high
performance education systems in Western Europe and North America. In addition, Latvia
spends more than twice as much per student for the heating and lighting of schools as Western
systems in similar climates. The high cost of heating and lighting is due primarily to inefficient
building designs (including mechanical systems) and, in some cases, to low quality construction
and/or the poor state of repairs. The cost per student of operating Latvian school buildings is also
high because they provide far more space per student than is essential. Much of this additional
space is devoted to lobby areas, corridors, faculty offices and other public spaces rather than
classrooms. However, dedication of teaching space to specific subjects also contributes to low
rates of space utilization. Many classrooms, laboratories and workshops are used for only a few
hours a week. Re-equipping these facilities to allow multiple uses would allow more intensive
use of this space. Re-partitioning interiors could reduce the amount of space being employed by
two-thirds or more. This would lower heating and lighting costs and might permit the sale or
lease of unused space. More intensive use of teaching space might also be achieved by creating
larger schools. This option would be especially attractive at the upper secondary level where the
consolidation of classes would also allow the pooling of library, computer and laboratory
facilities and thus permit schools to provide better opportunities to students as well.
The cost of heating and lighting schools buildings could in principle be reduced by about
two-thirds, leading to a maximum reduction in the cost of education equivalent to about 15



Page 8
percent of the total cost of education. However, achieving these efficiency gains would require
significant investments in the upgrading of mechanical systems and the repartitioning of interior
space. The return on these investments depends on the cost of the modifications, the structure's
remaining useful life, its present condition and its projected utilization rate.
These high costs have been absorbed during the transition by allowing teachers' salaries
to remain far below their market level, maintenance to be deferred, and the stock of equipment
and furniture to deteriorate. In the future, Latvia must reduce the cost of heating and lighting in
order to release scarce resources so that it can offer levels of compensation to teachers that will
attract outstanding candidates and provide students with better teaching materials and facilities.
The Latvian authorities have begun to rationalize the network of school farilities through
the consolidation of small schools. However, this process has been impeded by a system of local
government which assigns control over education to nearly 600 local authorities. A reform of
local government was enacted in 1997 which was intended to promote the voluntary merger of
small local government authorities. In addition, the act increased the responsibilities of regional
school boards, allowing them to play a larger part in the distribution of centrally collected taxes
allocated to education and in the oversight of educational activities. Pilot schemes for
improvement of the energy efficiency of school buildings have also been undertaken. Efforts to
reform local government and improve the efficiency of schools must now be increased.
Increase the Relevance and Quality of Education. The restoration of independence and
the transition to a market economy have fundamentally altered the aims and opportunities for
education in Latvia. As a small, relatively open economy with a modest natural resource
endowment, Latvia must become prepared to compete in a global economy. Its comparative
advantage in international trade must be based on its excellent access to important markets in
both the East and the West, and the high quality of its labor force. In order to benefit fully from
this new economic environment, Latvia must become prepared both to innovate frequently and to
achieve high quality standards in production. Therefore its labor force must be able to adapt
swiftly to new demands and must be prepared to master new and different skills rapidly. The
education required to meet this challenge must equip workers with the ability to absorb new ideas
quickly throughout their careers, to adapt products and technologies to market realities, and to
pursue relentlessly improvements in products and productivity. In order to meet these challenges,
the aims of education must shift from the mastery of a body of knowledge and command of a
group of specific skills, to developtnent of the ability to acquire new skills and knowledge
independently, to think critically, and to integrate knowledge from numerous sources and
disciplines in order to understand new and novel problems. The quality of education under this
new set of expectations will not be measurable as command of fact and formula but rather will be
defined in terms of the capacity of the individual to resolve real-world problems using skills from
many disciplines.
The Latvian authorities have begun to review content standards for education and to
develop new assessment systems in order to provide information on the success of education in
achieving those standards. It has produced new examinations for English language instruction
with the help of the British Council and begun work on examinations in other subjects. The
authorities recognize that additional training of teachers and development of materials will be
necessary to achieve the targeted standards for education.
Improve Student Learning. The Latvian education system has enjoyed considerable
success in training its students to perform advanced tasks. Its students have often been
recognized for outstanding performance in international academic competitions. However, the
results of recent, nationally representative assessments of student achievement in reading,
mathematics and science have revealed that children living outside the major cities and from



Page 9
disadvantaged social backgrounds are not performing well. In addition, these assessments have
shown that Latvian students are less skilled in the application of knowledge to unfamiliar
problems than their counterparts in many other countries. The agenda for improved student
learning should stress the development of the skills prized by open societies and market
economies. These skills include not only command of basic mathematics and fluency in the use
of languages, but also the capacity to impose structure on complex, real-world problems and to
apply skills from mathematics, the sciences, and other disciplines to resolve these problems. In
addition, students should acquire proficiency in oral and written communications and the ability
to work effectively in groups. The challenge in the future will be to ensure that high performance
is more widely spread across regions and that the application of knowledge receives greater
emphasis. These reforms will require the development of education that is responsive to the
special needs of specific groups of students, and teaching strategies that build on the interests and
opportunities that students already have.
The Latvian authorities have initiated discussions of methods to improve learning but this
process is in its infancy. The reform of teaching will require modification of deeply held beliefs
about both the role of the teacher and the goals of education; this will require a systematic and
extensive process of documentation and consultation.
The Agenda for Education Reform. Achieving improvements in learning will require
not only the retraining of teachers and the preparation of new teaching materials, but also the
development of new assessment programs and accountability systems. Successful fundamental
reform will also require that these changes occur at many levels simultaneously. This implies that
a comprehensive package of reforms should be prepared which is intemally consistent. It is
especially important that teaching methods, materials and assessment systems be aligned; if
contradictions exist among these elements, conflict and confusion will appear and the change
process will be impeded. Elsewhere, the most effective driver of education reform has been the
system of assessments and accountabilities. Teachers and parents alike tend to focus on the
outcomes of assessments and examinations. By creating a system of assessments that captures
the reformed aims of education, it is possible to focus the efforts of students and teachers on the
new objectives.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Need to update     The adoption of market principles of economic organization, the creation of an
content and        open, democratic society, and the entry of Latvia into the global market economy
performance        imply a need to revisit the aims of education and to revise standards for education
standards for      to ensure relevance to the needs of future generations of Latvians. The Latvian
education.         Govemment has initiated a process of revision of these standards for general
education. The project will support the development of new content and
performance standards in two areas, Latvian Language and Social Studies, and for
grades 3, 6 and 9. It will provide technical assistance and training, and will assist
financially a process of consultation and consensus building. If co-financing
becomes available, standards will be prepared for other subjects. The development
of content and performance standards was assigned priority because of the
importance strategically of national educational standards for the assessment of
quality and relevance of instruction.



Page 10
Lack of a reliable    A systematic and reliable national assessment system is needed to measure student
mechanism for      learning outcomes. The Latvian assessment system currently does not have the
systematically     capacity to ensure that tests are administered fairly, that grades are assigned
assessing students   objectively or that items on the examinations are able to capture well the aims of
learning outcomes.  the curriculum. The project will provide technical assistance and training for the
staff of the Center for Curriculum and Evaluation for the development and
implementation on an annual basis of a student assessment system for 9th graders
in the Latvian Language (two version, native and non-native). The project will
also finance the construction of secure facilities for the preparation, printing,
storage, distribution, and scoring of assessment examinations. The development of
an assessment system is urgently needed to address the need to shift attention from
inputs to student learning outcomes.
Low accountability  The Latvian education system has been directed from the center and its
to stakeholders,   performance has been assessed by local professional staff. Accountability has
including students.  been achieved primarily through central control of the curriculum and teaching
materials. The project will strengthen accountability to a wider range of
stakeholders through a program of public information based on the national
assessment program. The education system will be made more responsive to its
stakeholders through the development of new mechanisms to involve them in the
discussion of student learning outcomes. Broad accountability is needed to
supplement formal evaluation and oversight of education in view of the complex
and multi-dimensional nature of educational outcomes.
Lack of systematic  The Latvian education system does not continuously examine its performance nor
support to school    does it routinely seek to identify unsatisfactory performance by students, teachers
improvement plans. or schools. The adoption of revised national standards, the introduction of a
national assessment program and the creation of mechanisms for ensuring public
accountability, together with the provision of capacity for research and policy
analysis, will provide schools with the information that they need to identify and
rectify weakness in their programs. The project will support the development of
capacity at the school level for the evaluation of teaching methods and the
planning and implementation of school improvements. Stress will be placed on the
development of pilot programs to improve outcomes at the level of schools. A
strengthened program of support for school improvement is needed to ensure that
innovations in teaching are tailored to the needs of diverse groups of students.
Need to develop a   Latvia's MES was created in 1992 to provide leadership and central support to the
central ministry of  public education system. It needs further support and development in order to
education with the   fulfill its mandate. The project would develop a technical unit within the MOE
policy analysis    with policy analytic skills, including: statistical analysis, economics, information
capacity and stature  management, and policy analysis. The leadership and guidance of a strong and
to lead the        effective ministry of education is a critical requisite for the creation of effective
development of the  schools.
sector.



Page 11
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. Improving the Operating Efficiency of School Buildings - US$32.5 Million. This
component would improve energy efficiency and space utilization of education facilities,
resulting in a substantial reduction in recurrent expenditures. The proposed Project would finance
measures to conserve energy, including caulking windows and doors, reducing the proportion of
exterior walls devoted to windows, installing high efficiency boilers, providing heat regulators
and insulating ceilings and walls. It would also help to increase the utilization of school buildings
by supporting regional authorities in consolidating schools where this is economically justified
and in repartitioning interiors to bring space use into line with international norms.
Responsibility for analyzing existing inefficiencies and for identifying schools to be included in
the Project would be assigned to regional school boards in order to promote regional planning of
educational infrastructure. The proposed Project would finance these essential repairs for
approximately 120 schools, representing about 10 percent of all schools and about a quarter of the
most urgently needed repairs. Local governments would contribute at least of 20 percent of the
cost of repairs, inclusive of VAT. Benefiting municipalities will be required to use the savings in
recurrent costs that result from project investments in order to increase spending for education.
These expenditures are expected to include further improvements to physical facilities, upgrading
of school equipment and laboratories and teachers in-service training. Each municipality will be
required to submit a Project document in which preliminary estimates of benefits from initial
investments are presented and compared with costs of the project, including estimation of EIRR
and payback period, and a plan provided for how these savings over the payback period of the
project are to be employed. In order to introduce these measures into the entire education system,
the component has been partitioned into three sub-components:
A. 1 General Schools (US$24.5 Million)
A.2 Secondary Vocational and Technical Schools (US$5.9 Million)
A.3 Pedagogical Institutes (US$2.1 Million)
B. Education Quality - US$6.3 Million. The objective of this component would be to
increase the capacity of the MES and local authorities to assess and monitor the quality of student
learning outcomes. The purpose of the quality improvement component is to create a capacity for
continuously pursuing improvements in learning. The Latvian educational practice has been
driven in the past by input norms formulated during the Soviet period, and detailed syllabi. In
order to ensure that education is responsive to Latvian needs and to reduce the costs of achieving
those needs, a shift to an outcomes focused system becomes critical. Five sub-components have
been identified.
B. 1 National Content and Performance Standards (US$ 1.0 Million).
B.2 National Standardized Assessment Instruments (US$1.3 Million).
B.3 Communications Strategy and Public Relations (US$0.7 Million).
B.4 School Self-Improvement Model (US$2.6 Million).
B.5 Strengthening Policy Capacity (US$0.7 Million).
C. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements - US$0.8 Million. To
ensure that the project is implemented in a timely fashion, and achieves its development
objectives, the PMU would be strengthened and would oversee project implementation. National
and international consultants and training would be financed under the project to strengthen the
management of project implementation.



Page 12
Component               Category       Cost Incl.    % of   Bank-         % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
Education Infrastructure       Physical             32.5        81      25.1        81
Education Quality Improvement  Policy,               6.3        16       4.9        16
Institution
building
Project Management            Project                0.8         2       0.8         2
Management
Front-end Fee                                        0.3         1       0.3         l
Total            39.9       100      31.1       100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project would support both institutional and policy reforms:
a) It would help to define more clearly the role and mission of the central Ministry of
Education and to distinguish these roles and functions from those of the regional school
boards and local school administrators. The MES would acquire a larger role in the
development and enforcement of national content and performance standards, and in the
assessment of student achievement. The project would also assist the MES to further
develop its capacity to not only prepare and score assessments but also analyze the results
and to report to major stakeholders on the results of the system.
b) The project would strengthen the regional school boards as coordinating and planning
agencies for education by assigning them a major role in the identification of schools to
be renovated or re-engineered and in rationalizing the network of schools through
consolidation of smaller schools.
c) It would also assign regional school boards a major role in the analysis of the results of
assessments and in initiating efforts to improve the performance of both schools and
students.
d) It would grant the regional school boards greater responsibility for the improvement of
education by giving them the tools and authority to monitor quality and improve
teaching and learning.
e) It would support the revision of national architectural standards for space use, building
design and engineering systems in schools.
f) Finally, it would institutionalize a program of continuous improvement in quality of
learning and cost-effectiveness of education services.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project would reduce the cost to taxpayers of meeting current targets for
education by increasing the efficiency of building services and improving the utilization of staff
resources in schools and the MES. It would improve the relevance and quality of learning for
students through the development of content and perforrnance standards, more reliable and valid
assessment of student performance, and systematic dissemination of assessment results. It would
support the development of innovations at the school level in the teaching and learning process.
It would improve the economic and social prospects of children residing in disadvantaged rural
areas by focusing attention and economic resources on their education and training. It would
strengthen the role and performance of the MES by providing it with training and technical
assistance to further define its mission and build capacity to fulfill these expectations.



Page 13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The MES would be responsible for overall implementation of the project. A Project
Steering Committee (SC) would be established within the MES, and would be responsible for
providing overall policy guidance for the project, and for endorsing recommendations and project
outcomes. The SC members would be: the Minister (Chairperson); the State Secretary (Project
Director); the Head of General Education Department; and representatives of the Ministry of
Economy; the Ministry of Finance; the Ministry of Regional Development and Environment and
the Union of Local Governments.
To prepare the activities of the proposed Project, the MES established a Project
Management Unit (PMU) in 1997 under the Department of Education Strategy. The PMU is
headed by a Project Manager, who is directly accountable to the State Secretary as Project
Director. The PMU is staffed with six persons responsible for project components and
implementation responsibilities - Infrastructure Efficiency, Education Quality, Accounting,
Procurement, and Projects Assistance.
The PMU would be responsible for managing the timely implementation of project
activities, including: managing the day-to-day aspects of project implementation, and
coordination with stakeholders; monitoring key performance indicators for both quality and
physical outcomes; conducting procurement and contract administration according to Bank
Guidelines; managing financial systems for project expenditures, loan accounting, and budgetary
resources; producing quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR); handling public relations,
dialogue, and feedback with MES management and project stakeholders to ensure ownership and
to promptly resolve problems; ensuring accountability of contractors and consultants; and liaising
with World Bank and other donors. The PMU would also lead, by June 30, 2002, a mid-term
review to be conducted jointly between the MES and the Bank to assess progress in achieving
project outcomes and to make recommendations for adjustments as needed. Upon completion of
the project, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the MES
outlining the project impact and lessons learned.
5. Project Implementation Plans (PIP) and Working Groups (WG):
The MES has prepared a detailed Project Implementation Plan for each of the three
components. The PIP identifies stakeholders and detailed processes and outcomes. There are
several stakeholders in the project who would be the direct beneficiaries and would be
responsible for the implementation of sub-components and their respective Project
Implementation Plans (PIPs). Generally, the sub-components would be headed by a Team
Leader, who leads a team of stakeholders, including MES staff. The beneficiaries and/or entities
involved in implementation are: selected general and vocational schools; selected pilot schools
for implementing the School Self-Evaluation Model to Promote School Quality Improvement;
Regional School Boards; Department of Higher Education and selected Pedagogical Institutes;
Departments of General and of Vocational Education; Education Content and Examinations
Center; State Education Inspectorate; Department of Education Strategy; Administrative
Department; Public Relations; and Department of Logistics and Informatics.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternatives have been explored and rejected in formulating the approach for
Component II - Education Quality. First, the elements of the capacity building initiative might
have been separated and assigned to institutions outside of the MES. Local governments are



Page 14
inappropriate institutions for carrying out these functions since they would be unable to recover
the costs of producing the benefits to other communities because they could not exclude anyone
who refused to contribute. Private providers would also be unable to impose charges on all
beneficiaries and thus would be unable to invest sufficiently in the development of information
and dissemination.
Second, the implementation of the assessment system might have been entrusted to an
outside contractor. The contractor might have been selected from among international firms
specializing in this area or from academic experts in Latvia. (The option of using a national firm
is not available since such a firm does not exist and it would be very risky to entrust this function
to a newly formed, inexperienced enterprise). An international contractor would be unlikely to be
able to help Latvia develop indigenous expertise in assessment, and would not have been able to
function effectively in the Latvian language. Reliance on a university or university consortia
would have required that the Government be able to specify in detail, in advance the requirements
for such a contract. In view of the need to develop and test assessment instruments and
procedures for their implementation, it is more cost effective to retain control within the MES.
The project will provide training and study tours for members of the local assessment team to
enable them to acquire additional expertise. Finally, ensuring that the assessment instruments are
kept secure and that the scoring is carried out objectively argues for these functions to be placed
in a politically accountable, public institution. The MES meets these requirements as well.
Third, responsibility for the analysis of the results of the assessment and the use of the
assessment data to identify promising innovations and interventions might have been contracted
out to universities or university consortia. This option would make the skills and expertise of
these institutions available to the MES but would also require that the MES allow the contractors
discretion in the analysis and use of the data. It would be preferable to retain this control in a
directly accountable institution such as the MES. Contracting with academic institutions would
also reduce the MES's control over the assignment of individuals to work on these task and the
methods being employed. Finally, because skills in the national assessment of education
achievement do not presently exist, it will be necessary to train staff and provide them with
practical experience in order to develop a high quality program. This capacity should not be
retained by a contractor but instead should be held by the state.
Setting curriculum standards might have been left to the professional associations of
subject specialists. These groups are emerging in several disciplines as advocates for high
standards of performance. However, this option has the disadvantage of allowing narrow
disciplinary interests to dominate, rather than broader social objectives. The aim of standards
ought to reflect the needs of individuals for skills and experiences that contribute to individual
growth and the broader social welfare. Therefore, the standards should capture needs for not only
occupational skills, but also for socialization into a set of shared national values, and experiences
that enhance the development of the individual personality. In addition, the extent to which these
groups have become established or achieved recognition varies greatly from discipline to
discipline. Therefore, reliance on teachers associations for standards setting would result in too
little attention being given to academic disciplines that have not yet produced strong, professional
groups.
The testing center might have been located in rented space or a purpose built structure
locate in another part of the city. Instead it is being put in the basement and top floors of the
MES headquarters building. These sites have been selected for both technical and economic
reasons. The printing and storage facility will be located in the basement because the floor must
be able to bear the weight of printing presses and large stocks of paper. The basement is easily
secured and can be renovated to serve this function at lower cost than constructing a new building
structure. The MES headquarters building is centrally located and easily secured. The offices for



Page 15
the assessment program will be created from the upper most floor of the MES building since this
space is not now being used and can be protected easily from unauthorized entry. The
alternatives of constructed a new building outside the center of the city or of renovating an
existing building in another part of the city have been dismissed because they would be more
costly, less secure and not as accessible to staff of the Ministry.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                  Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed:
Human Development Sector    Welfare Reform                      S               S
Human Development Sector    Health Reform (FY99)               NR              NR
Other development agencies:
British Council              Assessment - ELT
Soros                        Effective Schools; Computer
Literacy; IT
PHARE                        Vocational Education
Strategy & Curriculum;
Teacher Training; EQ;MAT
European Union               Socrate and L.DaVinci
Programs
Danish Development Agency    Energy Efficiency Technical
Assistance and Training
Dutch Government             Gen. Ed. Quality Standards
Council of Northern Europe   In-Service Teacher Training
UJNDP                        Latvian for Minorities
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the two ongoing Human Development projects in Latvia and from other
Bank-financed projects have been incorporated into the design of this proposed project, in
particular, those regarding project management and implementation. Project management is
streamlined under the MES, with administrative support from the Ministry of Finance which
efficiently effects all expenditure payments and administer the Special Account. Other
management methods that have proven to be more complicated with external independent units
and lengthy on-lending agreements have been avoided.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Ministry of Education and Science has indicated its commitment to the project by
having appointed a project preparation team under the Department of Education Strategy, and by
having completed a detailed draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Evidence of ownership is
substantiated by several factors: (i) the Project concept was endorsed by the Cabinet of
Ministers, after several presentations by the Minister of Education, followed by plenary



Page 16
discussions; (ii) MES staff and other stakeholders in other Ministries and at the Regional and
local level have participated in the preparation process; (iii) Regional School Boards have
conducted the school selection process according to Guidelines and Criteria prepared by the
MES; (iv) briefings by the MES to the press and to the Union of Local Governments, as well as
significant press coverage have informed the public of the project activities and benefits; (v)
other donors such as the British Council and the Soros foundation-Latvia have participated in the
project preparation dialogue and will participate in the implementation; (vi) the Ministries of
Economy and of Finance have endorsed the objectives of the Project; and (vii) experts in the
construction industry have been consulted for the design of the infrastructure component.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government and the MES recognize that there has been significant value added from
Bank support through technical assistance during the preparation process, and through training,
and national and international consulting services contracted through the PHRD Grant.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$     million; ERR> 12%  [x] Cost Effectiveness
Analysis:
[ ] Other (Specify)
This project would create greater capacity within the MES for assessing the costs and
effects of program interventions. More specifically, this project would support the application of
statistical methods and economic analysis to the design of improvements in the operation of
education infrastructure, and to the assessment and improvement of education in the Latvian
language for native and non-native Latvian speakers. The infrastructure component has been
developed in two stages. First, the costs and benefits of improving the energy efficiency of
school buildings have been examined for representative architectural designs. That exercise has
revealed that buildings constructed during the late Soviet period are the most inefficient in
heating and lighting because of the low thermal resistance of exterior walls and ceilings, the high
thermal losses through large expanses of single pane window glass, and the infiltration of warm
air through the poorly sealed joints between wall panels, windows, and doors. Standardized
interventions have been identified for dealing with these issues and the most cost-effective
alternatives identified to be used in planning for the renovation of schools. Parallel analyses were
conducted for purpose-built buildings constructed prior to 1960 and additional studies were
carried out for selected structures which had been constructed for other purposes and converted at
a later time for use as schools. Most of these buildings were built by wealthy land owners and are
now used as rural schools.
The economic justification for improving a particular school depends on its current state
of repair and the estimated intensity of future use, as well as its original design and build quality.
Therefore a second stage of analysis has been carried out in which financial projections for the
school have been prepared with and without project interventions. The final design of each
building element has then been selected by conducting a sensitivity analysis of the most
promising renovations and choosing the collection of interventions that ensure a satisfactory
internal economic rate of return. This procedure has allowed consideration of the need to
address serious safety and structural problems at the same time that energy conservation measures
are being assessed. Therefore, the resulting choices employ resources optimally in addressing the
shelter requirements for education.



Page 17
The project provides for the selection of a total of 120 subprojects with representation
from each of the 26 regions. Each regional school board has been invited to nominate up to 3
schools for a competition among regions for project funding. The final selection of sites will be
made on the basis of the economic rate of return, payback period for the interventions and the
financial need of the local government. The payback period criteria has been introduced in order
to recognize the risk associated with investments with long term payoffs. Those nominated are
required to submit a brief project document in which the mission of the school is identified, its
strengths, weakness, opportunities and threats are assessed and its long-term strategic plan
outlined. This document supplements the formal analysis of costs, effects and benefits by
providing a qualitative assessment of the institution.
Reviews of the initial project submissions suggest that the economic rate of return on
approved sub projects can be expected to exceed 20 percent and that payback periods will be less
than 10 years. The estimates of cost used in these calculations are based on actual costs of pilot
schemes and of recent contracts for building maintenance and repair.
Quality Component. This component would create capacity to assess education
achievement in the Latvian language for Latvian and non-Latvian speakers and would support the
development of efforts to use this information in order to identify possible improvements in
teaching and to redirect resources to areas of priority need. The benefits from this effort would
include more carefully defined objectives and standards for learning, better strategies for
teaching, and more equitable distribution of education outcomes. In addition, the component
would support the strengthening of accountability to major stakeholders through the
implementation of a communications strategy for informing the public about performance of
individual schools and the entire education system in language instruction. The magnitude or
value of these gains cannot be estimated in advance.
Capacity Building. Strengthening the capacity of the MES to define national education
policy and to support improvements in the efficiency and quality of schooling is also an aim of
the project. This capacity will be used to increase the cost-effectiveness of instruction and
therefore will contribute to achieving increases in the return on the investments in education.
2. Financial:    NPV =US$ N/A              FRR = N/A
Fiscal impact.
The infrastructure component of the project will produce a positive cash flow beginning in
the second year of the project's life and will achieve payback of the initial investment and
accrued interest by year 5. The net effect on the consolidated public budget will be positive from
year three onward. The positive cash flow at the school level will be used to implement
additional repairs and improvements in buildings.
3. Technical:
Infrastructure Improvement. The proposed menu of modifications to buildings has been
carefully engineered and field tested in order to optimize design criteria and to assess costs and
effects. The design of replacement windows has been carried out by Latvian engineers with the
objective of optimizing the combined cost of lighting and heating buildings. Standardized units
have been designed in order to achieve maximum economies of scale in their manufacture.
Quality Improvement. The facilities for duplication, storage and distribution of
assessment tests have been designed by local architects and engineers and these specifications
and drawing have been reviewed by international experts. The architectural and engineering
plans have been selected to ensure that tests are securely stored prior to their being administered.



Page 18
The design of the assessment, the procedures for scoring tests and the procedures for analyzing
the results will be selected to allow optical scanning of answer sheets and computerized analysis
and reporting of results.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agency: Ministry of Education and Science. The MES is highly committed to
project implementation and has supported the project preparation process with integrated
participation of the relevant departments as mentioned in Sections C-5 and D-4 above.
b. Project Management: The project will be managed within the MES, through a full-time
Project Management Unit under the direct supervisory authority of the State Secretary. Although
an external project management unit was considered as it is favored by some entities in Latvia,
the project preparation team strongly supported an internal project management unit with support
from national and international technical assistance. The PMU has been successfully operating
within the MES for one year, and is the same model preferred by the Ministry of Welfare in their
two social sector projects. The model includes external control by the State Treasury/Ministry of
Finance which verifies eligibility of expenditures before issuing payment. The appraisal was
satisfied with the project management arrangements, in particular, the strengths this arrangement
has offered: demonstrated project ownership by the leadership of the Ministry; strong linkages
between the Ministry and the Project; ease of communications between the Project and
leadership of the Ministry; promotes institutional capacity; expedites decision making and
budgetary support; simplifies administrative processes and ensures financial accountability for
project expenditures, and strengthens the image of the project and of the Ministry.
5. Social:
This project will focus attention on the needs of disadvantaged rural and urban areas for
investments in the repair and renovation of schools and the needs of students for additional
attention to the quality of education being provided. It will strengthen the regional school boards
by supporting them in their role as coordinator of education services. The project will assist them
in examining opportunities for the consolidation of uneconomic schools and in introducing
alternative teaching strategies such as multi-graded instruction where consolidation is not
feasible. Finally, the project will support the government's efforts to reform the content of the
cirriculum and ensure that educational programs are responsive to the needs of disadvantaged
groups.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [] A  []B  [x] C
The project will reduce energy consumption by about a third in project supported schools
and will thereby lower air pollution from boiler plants.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced, if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
The project concept was identified by a participatory workshop held in July 1996 and
attended by representatives of the major stakeholders including the unions and associations of
workers, employers, teachers, local governments; colleges and universities; and the ministries
responsible for Culture, Agriculture, Welfare, Local Government, Education and Science. A
workshop on education quality was held in November 1997 to pursue consensus on the need to
redefine education standards; attendance at this workshop was largely overlapping with the earlier
event. An inter-ministerial working group has been created to guide the preparation of the
project; the committee includes representatives of relevant departments of the MES and of the



Page 19
major stakeholders. The Union of Municipal Governments and the regional school boards have
participated in the process of selecting schools for participation in the infrastructure component of
the project.
a Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The immediate beneficiaries of the
project are local governments, schools and the participating students. Local tax payers in affected
communities will benefit from a reduction in the cost of operating schools and from
improvements in the educational opportunities available locally. Over the longer term, the
families and employers of better educated workers will benefit from greater labor productivity
and more effective participation in the life of the community.
The other significantly affected group will be teachers whose job opportunities,
productivity, status and professional satisfaction may be expected to increase.
b. Other key stakeholders. Professional associations, subject matter specialists, labor
unions and teachers organizations will comprise other key stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project will reduce the recurrent costs of providing education by 10-15 percent in
about 120 participating schools. In addition it will provide a model for future replication
throughout the education system. The project will provide support to technical analyses of the
cost and benefits of assessment activities and quality improvement programs. The final design of
the quality improvement program will be chosen to ensure a return on investment of at least 12
percent.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Reform of education content and           M       These stakeholders have been consulted
standards may be resisted by teachers and         frequently and a communications program is
parents.                                          included to include them in subsequent efforts
to increase accountability and raise quality.
Government fails to budget for national   M       The benefits and costs of renovating schools
replication of the project.                      are being carefully documented and regional
school boards are being involved in the
development of the program, and selection of
initial participants.
Adoption of assessment of 9 grades        M      The assessment system has been designed to
Latvian Language is blocked by interest          be highly participatory and includes a
groups.                                           communications program to build
understanding and acceptance among
stakeholders.
Staff trained in statistics, informatics,  S     Efforts have been made to enrich the work and
economics, assessment, education                  to support staff in order to increase job
research, and policy analysis will not            satisfaction.
remain in the service of the MES.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk). N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The reform of educatio-n standards may encounter resistance from conservative quarters.
The identification of under-performing schools may produce political fallout.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. During Negotiations, the following documents were reviewed:
(a) Updated Project Implementation Plan (PIP);
(b) Terms of Reference for technical assistance to be contracted during the first six
months of project implementation;
(c) Terms of Reference for the operation and responsibilities of the Steering
Committee;
(d) Detailed chart of procedures, steps, and approvals to be followed for
implementation of the Infrastructure Efficiency Component;
(e) Draft model Agreement between municipalities and the MES for financing of
school improvements;
(f) Detailed chart of flow of funds for all expenditures under the project, including
direct payments by municipalities;
(g) Detailed project budget for 1999 and evidence of submission to Parliament
through the State Treasury;
(h) Assurances that individual national consultants would be selected on the basis of
comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment in
response to advertisements of the positions in a newspaper with national circulation.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
The following conditions of effectiveness were established during negotiations:
(a) Team Leaders for the five Education Quality sub-components of Part B of the
project [Article V, Section 5.01(a)] will have been selected and contracted.
(b) The MES will have: (i) made operational the Financial Management System for
the Project to be able to produce a Project Financial Statement, including Summary
of Sources and Uses of Funds, Special Account Reconciliation Statement, Cash
Withdrawal Statement, and Cash Forecast; and (ii) will have produced a manual for
the use of said Financial Management System [Article V, Section 5.01(c)].
3. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
(a) Not later than September 30, 1999, establish the Steering Committee under the
chairmanship of the Minister and under membership and terms of reference agreed
upon with the Bank with the responsibility to facilitate Project implementation at the
policy level[Schedule 5, Part A(l)(b)]



Page 21
(b) For coordination of the implementation of each component included in Part B of
the Project, the MES will appoint a full-time Team Leader, whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Bank [Schedule 5, Part A(1)(c)]
(c) No later than September 30, 1999, complete the selection of schools to
participate in activities under Part B of the Project in accordance with criteria agreed
upon with the Bank and furnish to the Bank a list of schools so selected [Schedule 5,
Part A(1)(d)]
(d) Undertake the selection of schools for activities included in Part A of the Project
in accordance with criteria, methodology, and time-schedule agreed upon with the
Bank [Schedule 5, Part A(1)(e)]
(e) No later than March 31, 2000 prepare, in accordance with principles satisfactory
to the Bank, and submit to the Bank a report on the financial management of the
Project, to form the basis for review between the Bank and the Borrower of the
disbursement procedures for the Loan [Schedule 5, Part A(1)(f)]
(f) No later than September 30, 2002, submit to the Bank a plan to expand the
program of school infrastructure improvement under Part A of the Project to schools
not covered under the Project, including a proposed financing plan for the
implementation thereof [Schedule 5, Part A(l)(g)]
(g) Formation, under a qualified Project manager, of a working group for each
project component comprising representatives of relevant stakeholders responsible
for implementation of project activities [Schedule 5, Part A(1)(h)(iii)]
(h) Monitoring of Project progress and achievement of development objectives on
the basis of indicators agreed upon with the Bank [Schedule 5, Part A(1)(h)(v)]
(i) Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank on or about April 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project
during the preceding period [Schedule 5, Part B(2)]
(j) Review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to above, and take all measures required to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report (Schedule 5, Part B(3)]
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The architectural/engineering design documents for the first year's school renovations are
being completed by municipalities and will be ready for the start of project implementation
[x] The draft procurement documents for works are being completed in draft and will be ready
for the start of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): Several
documents will be submitted by the delegation during negotiations for review as listed in Section
G above.



Page 22
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader:       Fredrick L. Golladay
Sector Director:           James Christopher Lovelace   .'
Country Director:          Basil Kavalsky



Page 23
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Education Improvement Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance           Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve quality,                                  Ongoing supervision.      Reform of the education
management, and                                                             sector and emphasis on
efficiency of the education                                                 improvement of education
system.                                                                     facilities and strengthening
the institutional and
management capacity of
the system will lead to cost
savings that can be applied
to improving educational
quality and an overall
improvement in human
development status.
Project Development                                                         (Objectives to Goal)
Objectives:              1.1 A 10% reduction in   MOES and Pagast
1. To reduce the recurrent  the recurrent real cost per   recurrent budget figures.
cost of education through   student in participating
improvements in energy    schools by end 2003.
efficiency, space
utilization, and staffing of
educational facilities.
2. To develop institutional  2.1 National performance   Results of standardized  The MOES receives
management capacity to    and content educational    tests.                 support from Government
assess and promote quality  standards in two subjects                      to extend the pilots nation-
learning.                in place and standardized    Project management    wide and ensure that the
assessment system for 9"'  reports.               necessary resources are
grade language in place by                        diverted to education to
end 2003.                Bank supervision reports.   successfully implement the
education reform program.
The overall education
reforn agenda goes
forward.
MOES includes personnel
practices reform and salary
adjustments needed to
encourage professionally
trained persons to remain
in the service of the
MOES.



Page 24
NarrativeSummary    Ky PerformaineeMutrna~                                itclArpi
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
INFRASTRUCTURE
EFFICIENCY:
1. Energy efficiency,     1.1 Vocational &          Bank supervision reports
utilization of building   Technical Secondary       and mid-term review.
space, and staffing of    Schools (V&T):
schools improved for
selected project schools.    1.1.1 Criteria for school                         Acceptable strategic plans
selection (based on                            are prepared on schedule.
updated strategic
plans, assessment of
space utilization,
and cost-benefit
analysis of
infrastructure
improvements)
completed by June
30, 1998.
1.1.2 Ten (10) V&T                                  At least thirteen proposals
schools are selected                           are submitted.
according to
accepted criteria by
October 31, 1998.
1.1.3 Three more V&T
schools selected
according to
accepted criteria by
July 30, 2000.
1.1.4 One (1) V&T
renovated by
October 31, 1999;
four (4) V&T
schools renovated
by October 31,
2000; and eight (8)
V&T schools
renovated by
October 31, 2001.
1.2 General Education
Schools (Primary, Basic,
Secondary & Special)
1.2.1 Criteria for school
selection, based on
future prospects for
enrollment in
school, and cost-
benefit analysis of
infrastructure
.__________ ________ _  improvements and



Page 25
Narrative Summary        Key Performance           Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
financial need
completed by
October 31, 1998.
1.2.2 Twenty-six (26)
schools are selected
for Phase I from
across all regions
according to agreed
criteria for
improvement during
1999-2000 by
January 4, 1999.
1.2.3 Letter of Agreement
for the first 6
general pilot schools
executed by MES
and Pagasts for
funding each school
and plan agreed for
applying savings to
future improvements
in education reached
by June 1, 1999.
1.2.4. ToR for Regional
Education
Development plans
prepared by
September 1, 1999.
1.2.5 Criteria agreed
between MES and
stakeholders for the
evaluation of
Regional Education
Development Plans
by Sept. 30, 1999.
1.2.6. Training program in
the preparation of
Regional Education
Development Plans
provided to MES
and Regional
School Boards,
November 1999.
1.2.7. Competitive                                 Stakeholders provide
selection of schools                         support for the education
from about 30                                reform process,
regions and cities,                          administrative reform
made on basis of                             takes place as planned.
Regional
Development Plans,
financial need, net



Page 26
Narrative SRmmary  Key pesformaime         I1t.igad                 Ciia   supin
___________    ndctor                             E 7 vf n tS fXE-L o uC-'
economic benefits,
& recurrent cost                           Acceptable Regional
savings                                    Development plans are
reinvestment plans                         prepared on schedule.
by October, 2000,
2001 and 2002.
1.2.8. Letter of Agreement
and agreed savings
plan for twenty to
thirty-two (20-32)
schools executed
annually by MES
and Pagasts for
funding each school
and applying
savings to further
improvements in
education, reached
by June 1, 2000,
2001, 2002.
1.2.9. About thirty two
(32) schools
renovated by
October 2001, 2002
and about ten (10)
schools renovated
by October, 2003.
1.3 Pedagogical
Universities (PU) (3
institutions).
1.3.1 Updated strategic
plans, costs and
benefits are
analyzed by
September 30, 1998.
1.3.2 PUs are selected by
October31, 1998.
1.3.3 Two PUs renovated
by October 2000.
1.3.4 One PU renovated
by October 2001.



Page 27
Narrative Summiary        -       Pr               Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
-    -licsfwto -::    -- -Evaluation
EDUCATION QUALITY:
2.1 Performance' and     2.1.1 Perfornance and     Supervision reports, mid-   There is ongoing
content2 standards3 for  content standards for     term and final reports.   ministerial support for
basic education developed   Latvian Language (for                            continuing standards
within the National      native and non-native                               development work.
Curriculum for Basic      speakers) and for Social
Education (SSBE)          Studies for grades 3, 6 and                        Adequate communication
document principles.     9 defined by January 2001.                          and coordination of efforts
among those affected as
2.1.2 Publications for                             well as resultant changes
educators on performance                           required in pre and in-
and content standards for                          service teacher education
Latvian Language and                               are supported by the MES
Social Studies developed                           to insure real and ongoing
and published by August                            change.
2001.
Minimum performance
2.1.3 Performance and                              levels to be achieved by all
content standards                                  students (with sensitivity
publications disseminated                          to developmental learning
to regional school boards,                         needs of students) are
schools, teachers, students                        determined with special
and parents during school                          sensitivity.
year 2001-2002.
There is wide consultation
2.1.4 Performance and                              and involvement of experts
content standards                                  and teachers at all levels
information disseminated                           throughout the country in
to appropriate MES                                 the process of developing
divisions, teacher training                        standards.
institutions, related
agencies, and the general                          Results are disseminated
public prior to standards                          informally and formally.
implementation in 2002-
2003 school year.
2.2 Creation of a national   2.2.1 Development of  Supervision reports, mid-   The assessment process
student assessment system   student achievement    terrn and final reports   will not become a "high
of Latvian Language for    assessment tool for grade 9                       stakes" examination for
Grade 9 native and non-   in Latvian language (2                             non-native Latvian
native speakers, to be used   versions: native Latvian                       speakers.
for monitoring the system,  and non-native Latvian) by
improving teaching and   December 2000.                                      After 2002, MES will
learning practices, and                                                      include costs of continuous
revising the curriculum.    2.2.2 Equipment and                              implementation of
'Performance is defined as the ability of the students to complete tasks, which indicate he/she has learned the skills and
knowledge specified in the standard.
2 Content is defined as the planned program of study of the concepts, skills and attitudes important to the understanding and
application of a subject.
3Standard is defined as that which a student should know and be able to do at the end of grades 3, 6 and 9.



Page 28
NaratveSummaryy          Key Performance          Monitoring and''         Critical Assumts
required technology and                           assessment system in the
software for                                      annual budget.
implementation and
processing of assessment                          Funding for facility
results in place by                              renovation for the
December 2000.                                    Curriculum and
Examinations Center
2.2.3 Security measures                          (CEC) will be obtained
for test development                              from MES Investment
storage and scoring is                           funds and the CEC capitol
completed by December                            improvement budget. WB
2000.                                            funding will provide for
the secured area for
2.2.4 Implementation of                           examination and
first Latvian language                            assessment materials and
assessment by June 2001.                          results data.
2.2.5 Results of student
assessment effectively
analyzed and disseminated
to different stakeholders
(schools, teachers,
students, parents regional
offices and public in
general) by September
2001.
2.2.6 Implementation of
second Latvian language
assessment by June 2002.
2.2.7 Results of student
assessment effectively
analyzed and disseminated
to different stakeholders
(schools, teachers,
students, parents regional
offices and public in
general) by September
2002.
2.3 All stakeholders in the   2.3.1 Assessment of MES   Supervision reports, mid-   MES decision-makers will
Latvian educational sector  communication practices   term and final reports  desire the improvement of
are informed in an       and development of a                              communication practices,
accurate and timely      communication                                     procedures and policies
manner regarding project   improvement strategy is                         both within the MES and
activities and results in  completed by January                            throughout the education
order to gain their support  2000.                                         sector.
to improve student
performance and elicit   2.3.2 MES                                         A communication strategy
feedback.                Communications                                    will provide general



Page 29
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Improvement strategy is                           awareness of educational
(Stakeholders include the   continuously implemented                      issues and develop greater
general public, schools  from June 2000 onwards.                           support for educational
[heads/deputies, teachers,                                                 improvement efforts.
support staff, students,  2.3.3 A dissemination
parents, and community],  strategy for project                             MES will provide
local/regional authorities,   activities and results to                    adequate staff to handle
regional school boards,  provide appropriate                              the needed job functions
MES units and centers,   stakeholder information                          that will result from this
and universities/teacher  and elicit feedback about                        assessment and strategy
training institutions/adult   critical issues is developed                 recommendations report in
education centers.)      by September 2000.                                order to improve MES and
education sector-wide
2.3.4 Continuous                                  communication .
implementation of project
dissemination strategy
activities from September
2000.
2.4 Development of a     2.4.1 School improvement  Supervision reports, mid-   MES decision-makers will
school self assessment and  draft handbook and 9  term and final reports   provide the support for
training model is achieved  training modules                               schools to improve student
and piloted in 30 schools   developed by September                        learning through the
from 3 regions. It is    2000.                                             cooperative efforts of the
expanded to renovated                                                      MES, regional school
schools and revised school  2.4.2 School Inspectorate                      boards, local authorities,
accreditation process.   develops new accreditation                        and the School
process by September                              Inspectorate.
2000.
Required school
2.4.3 School Inspectorate                         equipment for pilot
and School Heads                                  schools will be provided
Association                                       by Informatization project.
representatives agree on
joint procedures for use of                       Support in terms of
school improvement plans                          personnel, resources,
at pilot schools in school                        communication networks,
accreditation by                                  and policy development
September2000.                                    and revision will be
adequate.
2.4.3 Selection of 30 pilot
schools completed by                              Training modules will
December 1999.                                    address the following
topics: planning and
2.4.4 Training for school                        implementation of school
improvement delivered                             self-assessment and
during 2000-2001 school                           improvement plan;
year (RSB and 30                                  effective teaching and
schools).                                        learning to address new
standards; curriculum
2.4.5 Thirty pilot school                         development and



Page 30
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   hid~~~e a~ ers   E v ia lu ti n_    _  _   _ _  _  _ _
improvement plans                                   classroom assessment
implemented during                                  practices.
school year 2001-2002.
The sustainability and
2.4.6 School Improvement                            expansion of the strategy
Handbook and training                               requires intensive training
modules published by                                on similar topics for RSB,
August 2002.                                        Inspectors and School
Heads.
2.4.7 Training for
remaining 36 RSB and                                The long-term
remaining (about 90)                                 effectiveness of the school
refurbished schools                                 improvement plan will be
implemented during                                  linked to the support and
2002/2003 school year.                               incentives that the School
Accreditation model will
generate.
A phased national
implementation schedule
for schools will provide a
manageable change
program to insure that all
schools will have adequate
support to implement
continuous improvement
2.5 Capacity of Ministry of 2.5.1 Policy Unit created                          plans.
Education and Science     at the MES by Minister
strengthened in the area of  prior to policy studies                           MES benefits from having
policy analysis.          development.                                         persons trained in policy
skills not presently held by
2.5.2. Policy unit and                              its personnel as a first
relevant MES staff trained                           stage in strengthening the
in policy analysis and                              institution to lead a process
policy making, economics                             of quality enhancements to
and fnance of education,                             improve the system's
statistical analysis, and                            effectiveness to manage
research design during                               and make good use of
project life.                                        resources in the future.
2.5.3 Policy Unit                                   The three policy studies
completes 3 policy studies                          would serve a dual
by June 2002.                                        purpose: to analyze critical
policy issues for the MES
2.5.4 Assessment of the                              and to train Policy Unit
Latvian Education                                    and MES staff.
Management Information
System (EMIS) and                                   Technical Assistance on
development of proposal                             the topic of EMIS
for its effective                                    contributes to the effective
implementation in co-                                development and



Page 31
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
._________ _ .Indicators            Evaluation
ordination with current                           implementation of an
MES initiatives on the                            EMIS in Latvia in
topic.                                            conjunction with MES
Megaproject and Latvian
Education Informatization
System initiatives.
MES commits funding for
the Informatization Project
for the 1999, 2000, and
2001 requests.
PROJECT
MANAGEMENT:
3. Project implemented in   3.1 PMU fully staffed,  Project Management     Sustained support and
a timely and effective       equipped, and        Reports (PMRs);          involvement of the State
manner with stakeholder      operating by         supervision reports; mid-   Secretary and MOES
satisfaction.                Negotiations.        term evaluation; and final   management in overseeing
reports.                 project implementation
3.2 Key performance                               and acting proactively and
indicators monitored    Survey of stakeholder  responsive in decision
with feedback to     satisfaction.            making
stakeholders by end-
first semester with                           Qualified PMU staff
effective monitoring                          maintained and trained to
system.                                       effectively manage project
3.3 Project goods, works,  Procurement Management  physical implementation,
and services procured   Report produced on a  financing, and
without delays in    quarterly basis          procurement.
accordance with
World Bank
Guidelines.
3.4 Project expenditures    Project Financial
paid promptly with   Statement produced on a
satisfactory         quarterly basis
accounting and timely
annual audits.
3.5 Regular and effective   Regularly scheduled bi-
communications       weekly meetings with the
strategy implemented   State Secretary and as
to support project   needed with stakeholders
objectives.          and Steering Committee
Project Components/      Inputs: (budget for each                          (Components to Outputs)
Sub-components:          component)
1. INFRASTRUCTURE    US$32.5 MILLION              Quarterly PMR reports
EFFICIENCY
Selected V&T and General                          Audit Reports.
Schools, and Pedagogical
Universities:



Page 32
NarrativeSummary         Key t Perfrmnc           Mon uitorLugan4          CrcAssumptns
Indicator                Ealut
1.1 Design and apply
school selection
criteria.
1.2 Support School
Boards to develop
Regional School
Investment Proposals
according to agreed
TORs
1.3 Implement school
renovations
1.4 Assess monetary
savings available for
internal school
reallocation
2. EDUCATION             US$6.3 MILLION
QUALITY
2.1 Development of basic   US$1.0 million
education performance and
content standards in
Language and Social
Studies-grades 3,6 and 9.
2.2 Development and        US$1.3 million
implementation of a
national student
assessment system of
Latvian Language for
grade 9 student for native
and non-native Latvian
speakers
2.3. MES Communication    US$0.7 million
strategy implementation
2.4 School self-           US$2.6 million
evaluation/improvement
plan model and training
piloted in 30 schools in 3
regions and expanded to
all refurbished schools.
2.5 Strengthening Policy   US$0.7 million
capacity at Ministry of
Education and Science -
completion of three policy
studies.
3. PROJECT               US$0.8 MILLION
MANAGEMENT



Page 33
Narrative Summary        Key Performance           Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
3.1 Fully staff and make
operational a Project
Management Unit
3.2 Strengthen capacity
for project
management and
coordination through
training
3.3 Implement
Communications
strategy among
stakeholders
FRONT-END FEE            US$0.3 MILLION
TOTAL                    US$39.9 MILLION



Page 34
Annex 2
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Project Description
A. Education Infrastructure Efficiency - US$32.5 Million
The objective of this component is to instigate a program of continuous improvement in the
operating efficiency of the Latvian education system. The component in the immediate term would
support efforts to reduce energy consumption and to increase the utilization of both education facilities
and teaching staff. These efforts would be directed primarily at schools operated by local governments
and would be directed to municipality confronting higher unit costs and low revenue capacity. The
dramatic rise in the price of energy following the collapse of the Soviet Union has driven up the cost of
heating and lighting schools in the worse cases to more than 40 percent of the total recurrent cost of
education. The project would assist communities in renovating heating and lighting systems, improving
their control, and optimizing the use of building space. In addition, this component would also achieve
greater efficiency in the operation and staffing of schools through the merger of uneconomically small
schools and the promotion of Regional planning and school consolidation. Investment funds would be
distributed to schools through a competitive process. Local schools would be nominated by regional
school boards and selected on the basis of returns on investment, payback period and local fiscal need.
Each nominee would be expected to prepare a brief strategic plan in which the enrollment prospects,
opportunities for merger with neighboring schools and special needs and programs would be assessed.
A detailed national school survey was completed in January 1998 in order to verify the condition of
the existing educational infrastructure. That survey identified serious problems of energy inefficiency,
structural integrity and safety. It found that the cost estimates of retrofitting and renovating all school
buildings in order to achieve operating efficiency and safety would exceed US$ 900 Million, and that
executing the most urgent repairs in order to control excessive costs and ensure the safety of occupants
would cost about US$130 Million. The necessary repairs include replacement of structurally faulty roofs;
repair of structural defects in foundations and load-bearing walls; and renovation or replacement of
obsolete heating and electrical systems. These essential repairs would have to be undertaken in phases due
to the acute scarcity of investment funding for local infrastructure. The proposed Project would finance
essential repairs for about 120 schools, representing about 10 percent of schools and about a quarter of
high priority repairs. The Project would focus on selection of schools in rural areas which are the poorest
with the most limited revenue generating capacity, and with the lowest educational outcomes.
Many of the schools with high energy consumption and low thermal efficiency were built during
the Soviet period. Investments improving their efficiency may achieve up to a 60 percent reduction in
heat consumption. Energy efficiency gains for the project schools have been calculated to range on the
average from 20-30 percent. In addition, priority repairs would ensure the safety of occupants and
prevent further structural deterioration of buildings. Economic and financial returns on investments are
therefore high. To complement these structural improvements, the student population and community
would be required to contribute in kind to cosmetic interior and exterior improvements which would
enhance the physical learning environment. Local authorities would contribute a minimum of 20 percent
of the cost of repairs, including VAT.
The implementation of the project would be carried out in three phases with each phase including
about 40 schools. Because of the limited funding available in relation to need, the priority of renovations
would be determined by economic rates of return on investments and the impact of improvements on the
safety and structural integrity of the building. On the basis of analyses of several representative building



Page 35
designs, a design manual has been prepared by the PMU, Concept of School Repairs and Renovations.
The manual provides guidance on the selection and elaboration of improvements and identifies as high
priorities the repair of structural defects, the replacement of defective roofing surfaces, the regulation of
heating systems, the sealing of window and door openings, and insulation of ceilings and exterior walls.
A. 1 General Schools (US$24.5 Million)
As the investment needs greatly exceed the availability of resources for school improvements, a
school selection strategy was developed by the MES for the selection of general schools which are owned
by municipalities. A total of about 100 general schools would be selected under the project. Guidelines
were provided for Regional School Boards to apply in the schools selection - Principles and Criteria for
the Selection of General Education Schools. To achieve efficient space utilization and promote
optimization of the Regional school network, Regional School Boards were charged with prioritizing
school improvement needs and ranking the top priority needs schools for participation in the Project.
School selection criteria included: an economic rate of return of more than 12 percent; an investment-
payback period of less than 6 years; and ratio of costs of essential repairs to annual local government
revenues of greater than 3.5.
A.2 Secondary Vocational and Technical Schools (US5.9 Million)
About 15 vocational education schools would be selected for energy and space efficiency
improvements out of a total of 1 14 in the country. The majority of vocational schools are owned and
operated by the MES, while other ministries also own schools which would be selectively participating in
the Project, mainly the ministries of Agriculture, Culture, and Health and Welfare. The efficiency criteria
used in the selection of general schools would also be used in selecting vocational schools and in
designing improvements. A strategic plan for the medium term development of each school would be
required in order to assess the school's ability to respond to labor market demands and to adjust to
technological change. Only those vocational schools with strong medium term prospects for labor market
success and enrollment growth would be eligible for assistance under the project; competitive economic
returns and short payback periods would also be required with tradeoffs between the two criteria being
taken into consideration.
A.3 Pedagogical Institutes (US$2.1 Million)
Three out of the five Pedagogical Institutes (P1) would be selected for assistance under the project.
Pedagogical Institutes are owned and operated by the MES. Because of the decline in population and
projected fall in enrollment in general education, the PIs are expanding their missions to include
preparation for other professions. In several instances the PIs are the only tertiary education institutions
in their geographic areas. Successful applicants would be screened on the basis of development potential
(as exhibited in a strategic planning document) and would be chosen on the basis of the same economic
criteria applied to general and vocational schools.
B. Education Quality Component - US$63 Million
The objective of this component would be to strengthen national capacity to assess and
continuously improve the quality of learning by strengthening the capacity at the central, regional, and
school levels to assess and monitor the outcomes of the education system, to disseminate this information
to key stakeholders and to design and implement improvement programs at the school level. The
component would pursue this objective through the implementation of five sub components:



Page 36
B.1 National Content Standards (US$1.0 Million)
The Project would finance support of the MES in leading a process of wide consultation to develop
and define what it is the children are expected to be able to do at different points in their education. The
Ministry has already started this work and general content standards have been developed for compulsory
education. Work remains to be done in defining content and performance standards for specific subject
and interdisciplinary areas. The preparation of student standards is needed to ensure consensus on what is
expected of all children. These standards must be written in clear and explicit language, firmly rooted in
content of the subject area and sufficiently detailed to provide significant guidance to teachers, curriculum
and assessment developers, parents, students, and others who would be using them. Classroom
curriculum and instruction should be aligned with these standards and the system of assessments. In the
absence of such alignment, students cannot be expected to acquire the knowledge and skills they need to
achieve standards. This alignment also depends on the teacher's ability to understand -- and obtain the
resources and expertise-- the expectation embodied by new assessments.
Technical assistance would be provided to develop a strategy for the development of content and
performance standards in four subjects. The standards would be chosen so that they do not overload the
curriculum. The principal stakeholders would widely consulted on drafts of the document before its
adoption and dissemination. Publications would be produced that would specify the content and
performance in four subjects of the compulsory grades (grades 1-9). They would be provided to schools,
pagasts, inspectors and regional offices. Portions of the documents would also be communicated to
parents so they can better understand what can be expected. Standards would be specific enough to
enable everyone (students, parents, educators, policy makers, the public) to understand what students
need to learn. They also must be precise enough to permit a fair and accurate appraisal of whether the
standards have been met.
B.2 National Standardized Assessment Instruments (US$1.3 Million)
This sub-component would produce assessment instruments in order to generate periodically
reliable, usable infornation on student outcomes. Assessments need to be developed that are aligned with
the newly adopted standards. A sound assessment system would allow the education system and
stakeholders to determine how well it meets the educational needs of students and how well it stimulates
their learning. The assessment system both measures what is learned and communicates forcefully to
stakeholders the learning goals of that country. Assessments focus attention on a particular set of skills
and knowledge -- those that must be met to meet a standard. Assessments also communicate how good is
"good" enough by defining different levels of proficiency. In addition, well conceived assessments can
focus students and teachers on the knowledge that is deemed most important to learn. (Poorly conceived
assessments can prompt students to cram soon to be forgotten facts and figures to achieve a passing
grade.) The results of assessments would be used to inform the country about how students, schools, and
regions are performing in relationship to the established standard. Regions would be helped to identify
which schools need targeted assistance. The results of assessment would also provide information to
teachers and schools about areas of strength and weakness. Assessments would inform parents about the
performance of their son or daughter and/or the school they attend.
The project would support the operation of the unit responsible for the development, implementation,
assessment and dissemination of student achievement results. The Project would ensure that appropriate space is
available for the safe storage and processing of examinations. The project would finance the development of a
criterion-referenced test for grade 9 for Language for Latvian speakers and Latvian as a second language.
(Criterion-referenced tests examine students' mastery of the system's educational objectives and as such, require
performance standards' to be explicit, widely reported and understood.) Pilot measurement would be undertaken in



Page 37
year 2000, baseline census measurement in year 2001 and subsequenitly in year 2002. A total of XXXXX tests
would be administered during the project.
The project would finance the technical assistance required for the development of criterion-tests,
implementation strategy, analysis and dissemination of results, the refurbishing and improvement of
building facility to comply with security requirements, computer and test processing equipment required,
printing of pilot and census tests, printing and dissemination of results.
B.3 Communications Strategy to Improve Teaching and Learning (US$0.7 Million)
How well does a school know its strengths and weakness and is it prepared to begin to make
changes to overcome the weaknesses? In order to improve schools need to know how they are doing and
need to focus on how to make teaching and learning more effective. Schools need to be aware in which
grade students do well or poorly and in which subjects the school is strong or weak. Particular attention
needs to be given to those students who show signs of under achievement. Often schools need an outsider
to help hold up a mirror to current practices and make the school more aware of what areas might need
attention for progress to be achieved. Teachers might need to visit other classrooms within the school or
in other schools to see how instruction can be delivered in alternative ways. Teachers might need
assistance in deepening their content knowledge or in how they work to develop critical thinking and
understanding with their students.
The Project would support schools in communicating with parents about expectations and
performance of students. Student performance information would be used to help schools know how its
performance measures against the established standards and would help regional offices and inspectors
know more about the distribution of school performance and assist them in the development of
improvement strategies. The project would finance the TA to assist in the design of a communication
strategy in how to provide information to relevant stakeholders in order to help improve student learning.
The project would finance the printing and distribution of relevant periodic reports on student and system
outcomes. As regions build and strengthen their information systems this sub component would
complement the dissemination of that information in a useful way. This information would also be used
to help target professional development opportunities for teachers and support the effort of school
inspectors.
B.4 School Self-Evaluation Model to Promote School Quality Improvement (US$2.6 Million)
This component would finance the technical assistance required to develop local and regional
strategies for assessing and improving schools and student learning; to examine the school accreditation
process (include the participation of the inspectorate along with other central and regional staff in the
process); and to develop a school self-study guide and a pilot application in two regions. The component
would also provide funds with which to implement improvement plans. Measuring student learning
would not yield increased student achievement unless the information were used to begin to support
changes in classroom practice. Schools would need to be engaged in a continual process of reflection that
focuses on improving the social and cognitive development of children. Teachers would need to
collectively work together to address this and school clusters have proven an effective means to achieve
this. Some of the elements required in this intervention are (i) local school assessment of student
learning; (ii) school based inquiry and school improvement plans; and (iii) school annual progress report.
The pilot interventions to improve schools would require specific allocation of resources to train
principals and teachers, develop and publish training materials, and provide the required educational aids.
The efforts that are piloted would be supported by other structures in the system that focus on schools.
For example, the project would explore how the inspectorate currently functions and whether it could



Page 38
provide assistance to schools to identify strengths and weaknesses and monitor a school's progress in
improvement.
B.5 Institutional Capacity Building (US$0.7 Million)
The MES and Regional offices would be provided with resources with which to conduct three studies
chosen form among the areas of governance, internal efficiency and quality. This work would be done by those in
the MES along with those who work in the regional offices. The studies would address critical areas that require
additional analytical work to inform decision making. In order to complete the studies and strengthen the ministry
and regional offices, training would be provided in three areas: (a) policy analysis and policy making; (b)
education economics and finances; and (c) statistical analysis and evaluation.
This subcomponent would also support the refinement of existing data sources to further develop
the work that has been done to build an information system. This additional work would focus on linking
inputs, processes, outcomes, and costs to provide decision makers with information to improve the quality
of the system. Student assessment information would included once the national assessments are
developed. The system would be designed to be used both by the Ministry and by the regional offices.
This subcomponent would finance the: (a) designing of appropriate education statistical software; (b)
training of sector managers and board members responsible for information to reinforce decision making
based on effective use of MIS; and (c) providing TA to design and implement the system.
C. Project Management - US$0.8 Million
C. I Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
To prepare the activities of the proposed Project, the MES established a Project Management Unit
(PMU) in 1997, under the Department of Education Strategy and Planning. A PHRD Grant financed
technical assistance and training for project preparation, and strengthened the MES capacity for project
management and administration. To ensure that the project is implemented in a timely fashion, and
achieves its development objectives and outcomes, the PMU would be strengthened to manage,
coordinate, and administer project implementation. National and intemational consultants and training
would be financed under the project to strengthen staff capacity for project implementation management
and monitoring of key performance indicators.
The MES would be responsible for overall implementation of the project. A Project Steering
Committee (SC) would be established within the MES, and would be responsible for overall policy
guidance for the project. The SC would also be responsible for endorsing recommendations and project
outcomes. The SC members would be: Minister (Chairperson); State Secretary and Project Director (or
Deputy State Secretary); Head of General Education Department; Ministry of Economy Representative;
Ministry of Finance Representative; Ministry of Regional Development and Environment
Representative; and Soros Foundation. The SC would encourage broad participation of stakeholders in
meetings and discussions, in particular, the participation of stakeholders in Working Groups established
to oversee implementation of specific Project activities.
The PMU would be headed by a Project Manager, directly accountable to the State Secretary as
Project Director. The PMU would be staffed with five persons responsible for project components and
implementation responsibilities - Infrastructure Efficiency, Education Quality, Accountant, Procurement
Officer, and Projects Assistant.



Page 39
The PMU would be responsible for managing the timely implementation of project activities,
including: day to day management of project implementation and coordination with stakeholders;
monitoring key performance indicators for both quality and physical outcomes; conducting procurement
according to Bank Guidelines, for contract administration; financial management systems for project
expenditures, loan accounting, and budgetary resources; producing quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMR); public relations, dialogue, and feedback with MES management and project stakeholders
to ensure ownership and promptly resolve problems; ensure accountability of contractors and consultants;
and liaising with World Bank and other donors. The PMU would also lead, by March 2001, a mid-term
review to be conducted jointly between the MES and the Bank to assess progress in achieving project
outcomes and to make recommendations for adjustments as needed. Upon completion of the project, an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the MES outlining the project impact
and lessons learned.
Financial Management Systems. The PMU has been implementing a PHRD grant, and
established a computerized accounting system for the grant (HANSA accounting software). The Project
Accountant works full-time in the PMU, and will continue to receive support from an international
financial consultant. A customized Chart of Accounts was established to produce financial statements
including sources and uses of funds, Special Account reconciliation, a balance sheet, and statement of
expenditure by loan disbursement category. It is expected that the systems in place will be adequate to:
handle financial transactions, monitor project expenditures by component and sources of funding;
generate auditable financial statements; affect internal controls for payment authorization of invoices;
facilitate maintenance of contract files and their corresponding supporting documentation; and automate
maintenance of the Special Account and Withdrawal Applications. Although the PMU maintains project
accounts and processes all payments of eligible expenditures, the State Treasury/Ministry of Finance
would maintain the Special Account and make payments as approved by the MES-PMU. During the first
project year, additional technical assistance would also support the establishment of a Project
Management Reporting System (PMR), linking expenditures and procurement to project outputs and
outcomes as well as the preparation of a Project Accounting and Financial Management Manual. It is
planned that, by March 31, 2000, the MES and the Bank will conduct a review of the Project's FMS
systems, and of the proposed PMR, which would include a Project Financial Statement, Procurement
Management Report, Physical Project Progress Report, and a 6-month budget forecast which would for
the basis for acceptance of PMR-based disbursements under the Loan (see Annex 7 for a more detailed
description of the FMS).
Project Implementation Plans (PIP) and Working Groups (WG). There are many stakeholders
in the project who would be the direct beneficiaries or administrators of the project and would be
responsible for the implementation of sub components and their respective Project Implementation Plans
(PIPs). Generally, the sub components would be headed by a Working Group Manager, who leads a team
of stakeholders, including MES staff. The beneficiaries and/or entities involved in implementation would
be: selected general and vocational schools; selected pilot schools for implementing the School Self-
Evaluation Model to Promote School Quality Improvement; Regional School Boards; Department of
Higher Education and selected Pedagogical Institutes; Departments of General and of Vocational
Education; Education Content and Examinations Center; State Education Inspectorate; Department of
Education Strategy; Administrative Department; and Department of Logistics and Informatics.



Page 40
Annex 3
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                          Local           Foreign       Total
---------------- US $ million--------------------
A. Education Infrastructure Efficiency
1. General Schools                                         18.9            2.6          21.5
2. Secondary Vocational and Technical Schools               4.6            0.5            5.1
3. Pedagogical Institutes                                   1.7             0.2           1.9
Subtotal:          25.2             3.3          28.5
B. Education Quality Improvement
1. Setting National Content Standards                       0.5            0.5            1.0
2. National Standardized Assessment Instruments             0.6             0.5           1.1
3. Communications Strategy and Public Relations             0.4             0.2           0.6
4. School Self-Improvement Model                            1.3             1.1           2.4
5. Strengthening Policy Capacity                            0.3             0.4           0.7
Subtotal:           3.1             2.6           5.8
C. Project Management
1. Project Management and Coordination                      0.3            0.4           0.7
D. Front-end Fee                                               0.0             0.3           0.3
Total Baseline Costs                                          28.6             6.6          35.2
Physical Contingencies                                      3.7             0.6           4.3
Price Contingencies                                         0.1             0.3           0.4
Total Project Cost                                            32.3             7.6          39.9
* Numbers have been rounded.



Page 41
Annex 4
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Infrastructure Improvement Component
The over arching objective of this component is to support the development of capacity in the
Ministry of Education and Science to increase the cost-effectiveness of activities in the education sector.
The component's specific aim initially was to better manage consumption of energy in heating and
lighting schools. The cost of energy has increased dramatically since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
For example, the price of natural gas has risen from US$0.25 to US$80.00 per cubic meter. As a
consequence, the cost of heating and lighting schools now absorbs about 18 percent of the consolidated
budget for basic education and up to 40 percent of total recurrent costs in the least energy-efficient
schools. The effects of the increase in energy prices have been especially pronounced because during the
Soviet period buildings were not designed to conserve energy.
An assessment of the energy efficiency of educational facilities was completed by consultants in
January 1998. That survey included an appraisal of the condition of major building components,
including roofs, exterior walls, foundations, windows, heating and lighting systems, and plumbing
systems at 1,150 schools. The state of repair of these components was assessed using standardized
criteria. The survey revealed that in addition to being energy inefficient, many buildings were
structurally unsound or were rapidly deteriorating and might be expected to fail structurally over the next
five years if not repaired soon. The aim of the component was therefore broadened for both ethical and
economic reasons to include the execution of those repairs required to ensure the safety of students and to
preserve the near-term structural integrity of school buildings.
The project will finance the initial three tranches of a national program to ensure the safety and
efficiency school buildings. The project will apply selection and design criteria that assign priority to
ensuring the structural integrity of buildings and the efficient use of energy. The design criteria have been
developed on the basis of life cycle energy costs using a discount rate of 12 percent. A three stage
process has been adopted for applying these criteria. The process has been implemented in order to select
schools to be improved during the first year of project implementation. First, the regions have been
invited to nominate schools for participation in a national competition in which schools will be selected
on the basis of the return on investments and the financial need of the local government responsible for
the school. Second, candidates have been invited to prepare and submit a project document in which the
mission of the school, projected enrolments and prospects for consolidation with other schools or possible
closure of the schools are examined. The results of the survey of buildings have been made available to
local governments to guide and assist them in preparing their proposals. Finally, the Ministry of
Education and Science has evaluated the proposals and submitted its recommendations to a working
group composed of representatives of local governments, and of the Ministries of Agriculture, Education
and Science, Environment and Regional Development, and Labor. The MES's evaluation process has
entailed applying a minimum rate of return requirement of 9 percent, a payback period of no more than 5
years and an investment cost at least five times the locally generated annual tax revenues of the
responsible local government. The schools selected will prepare, with the help of consultants, detailed
designs and revised project justifications prior to final approval. Because of the small scale of these
subprojects, a streamlined appraisal process has been adopted in which standardized design criteria are
employed in order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of interventions.



Page 42
Based upon the application of these criteria to the initial group of nominees, the project is expected
to yield an average return of about 12 percent as a result of reductions in energy consumption alone. In
addition, the project will arrest the deterioration of buildings and ensure the safety of occupants. In those
instances in which consolidation of existing schools will be feasible, further economics in the use of staff
and facilities can be anticipated. No attempt has been made to assign a value to these benefits, but they
are clearly large. The use of equity criteria in selecting participants will also ensure that disadvantaged
communities will benefit disproportionately in the early stages of the program. The introduction of
economic criteria into the design of buildings and their operation will extend these benefits to the entire
program of public investment in schools.
Quality Improvement Component
This component has been design to create capacity within both the MES and local schools to
identify opportunities to increase the cost-effectiveness of education services. The project will support
the preparation of content and performance standards, the development of an assessment program to
measure the achievement of these standards and the strengthening of capacity within the MES to analyze
the cost-effectiveness of programs and to identify both good practice and poor performance at the school
level. In addition, the project will support efforts by local schools to improve performance. It will
provide schools with valid information on both its performance and the performance of other schools in
Latvia.



Page 43
Annex 5
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Financial Summary
(in US$ million, by Bank FY)
Implementation Period
2000    2001    2002    2003   Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs       16.3    11.7    10.1    1.1    39.2
Recurrent Costs        0.05    0.07     0.3     0.3    0.7
Total               16.3    11.8    10.4    1.4    39.9
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
Government             4%      2%       1%     <1%      7%
RSB/Municipalities     5%      4%       5%      1%     15%
IBRD                  33%     23%      20%     2%      78%
Other Donors          <1%     <1%   <1%        <1%    <1%
Total                42      29      26       3      100
Main assumptions:
* The project becomes effective August 1999.
* Project expenditures are costed over a four-year period. The project would be
completed by March 31, 2004, and the Loan Closing date is September 30, 2004.
- Donor financing would be secured and sustained.



Page 44
Components Project Cost Summary
(Lats'000)                                        (US$ '000)
%     % Total                                     %      % Total
Foreign   Base                                    Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchang  Costs    Local    Foreign         Total   Exchang  Costs
e                                                 e
A. Education Infrastructure Efficiency
1. General Schools                                   11,323.1    1,590.2   12,913.3      12      61    18,871.9   2,650.3   21,522.2        12      61
2. Secondary Vocational and Technical Schools         2,763.9     286.4    3,050.3        9      14     4,606.5     477.4    5,083.9         9      14
3. Pedagogical Institutes                             1,016.9     105.3    1,122.2        9       5     1,694.8     175.5    1,870.3         9       5
Subtotal Education Infrastructure Efficiency           15,103.9   1,981.9   17,085.8       12      81    25,173.2   3,303.2   28,476.3       12       81
B. Education Quality
1. National Content Standards                          283.0      286.3      569.3       50       3       471.7     477.1      948.9       50        3
2. National Standardized Assessment Instruments        376.4      291.7      668.0       44       3       627.3     486.1     1,113.4       44       3
3. Communications Strategy and Public Relations        260.1      118.4      378.5       31       2       433.5     197.3       630.8      31        2
4. School Self-Evaluation Model                        807.5      634.8    1,442.3       44       7     1,345.8    1,058.0    2,403.8       44       7
5. Strengthen Policy Capacity                          146.7      245.2      392.0       63       2       244.6     408.7       653.3       63       2
Subtotal Education Quality                              1,873.7   1,576.3    3,450.1       46      16     3,122.9   2,627.2    5,750.1       46       16
C. Project Management
1. Project Implementation Management                    197.9     223.7      421.6       53       2       329.8     372.9       702.7       53       2
Subtotal Project Management                              197.9      223.7      421.6       53       2       329.8     372.9      702.7       53        2
D. Loan Front-End Fee                                        -      185.0      185.0      100       1          -      308.3      308.3      100        1
lotal BASELINE COSTS                                   17,175.5   3,966.9   21,142.4       19     100    28,625.9   6,611.6   35,237.4        19     100
Physical Contingencies                                2,201.1     378.1    2,579.2       15      12     3,668.6     630.1     4,298.7       15      12
Price Contingencies                                   1,953.3     611.9    2,565,2       24      12        15.8     334.5       350.4       95       1
rotal PROJECT COSTS                                    21,329.9   4,956.9   26,286.8       19     124    32,310.3    7,576.2   39,886.4       19     113



Page 45
Expenditure Accounts by Components
Education Infrastructure
Expenditure Accounts by Components -                                 Efficiency
Totals Including Contingencies                                      Secondary                                       Education Quality                                Project
(US$ '000)                                                           Vocational                           National   Communications                                Management
and                  National  Standardized   Strategy and       School      Strengthen      Project       Loan
General   Technical  Pedagogical  Content  Assessment         Public       Self-Evaluation   Policy    Implementation  Front-End
Schools    Schools   Institutes   Standards  Instruments     Relations         Model        Capacity    Management        Fee       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. WORKS
Refurbishment                                          22,059 0     5,643 0      1,985.3         -         329.9              -                -           -               -          .    30,017.3
B. GOODS
1. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                                   -       35.8         156.0           11.9            297.0        36.6            15.8                 553.2
2. FURNITURE                                                                          -          -          59.3              -                -           -             6.0          -       65.4
3. VEHICLES                                               546.3           -                      -             -                            28.1           -               -                 574.4
4. PRODUCTION OF MASS MEDIA MATERIALS
DESIGN OF MASS MEDIA MATERIALS                                                      -        3.6            -                                                                                3.6
REPRODUCTION OF MASS MEDIA MATERIALS                       -           -                    148             -               -            403.0                          -          -       417.9
Subtotal PRODUCTION OF MASS MEDIA MATERIALS                              -            -       18.4            -               -            403.0          -               -          -       421.4
5. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                                    -           -            -      151.9         28.2               -                -        4.6            27.7          -       212.3
Subtotal GOODS                                             546.3           -            -     206.1         243 5            11.9            728.2       41.2            49.5          -      1,826.8
C. SERVICES
1. CONSULTANT SERVICES
NATIONAL CONSULTANTS                                  1,479.2      299.9        110.4     274.1          98.3           447.0           217.3       247.2           299.2          -     3,472.6
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS                              371.8           -           -      370.3         316 6           204.5           410.0       342.9           271.4          -     2,287.5
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES                            1,851 0      299 9        110.4     644.4         414.9           651.5           627.3       590.1           570.6          -     5,760 1
2. TRAINING
NATIONAL WORKSHOPS AND SEMINARS                            -           -            -     137.3          19.1               -           700.3           -            33.6          -       890.2
FELLOWSHIPSANDSTUDYTOURS                                   -           -           -       35.3          34.9              -             116.0       80.3           113.8          -       380.2
Subtotal TRAINING                                            -           -            -     172.6          53.9               -            816.2       80.3           147.3          -     1,270.4
Subtotal SERVICES                                         1,851.0      299.9        110.4     817.1         468.8           651.5          1,443.5      670.4           717.9          -     7,030.4
D. Loan Front-End Fee                                          -           -            -         -             -               -               -           -               -      308.3       308.3
Total Investment Costs                                     24,456.4    5,942.9      2,095.7    1,023.2       1,042.2          663.4          2,171.7      711.6           767.5      308.3    39,182.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES                                  -           -            -         -         187.1               -               --                          -          -       187.1
B INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                              -            -       10.2         12 9            12.3           427.3         4.9                                  467.6
C. VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS                                  39.6                                  -             -               -              9.4-                                    -        49.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                          39.6          -            -       10.2        200.0            12.3            436.6        4.9               -          -       703.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         24,495.9    5,942.9      2,095.7    1,033.4      1,242.2          675.7           2,608.3      716.5           767.5      308.3    39,886.4
Taxes                                                       105.5          -            -       37.1         42.0             2.1            132.8         7.4            8.7          -       3357
Foreign Exchange                                          3,152.7      564.8        210.8     528.6         542.5           215.9          1,183.3      455.5           413.7      308.3     7,576.2



Page 46
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Govt. of Latvia   RSB/Pagast       World Bank      Other Donors    Total             Local (Excl. Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %    Amount   %        Amount    %    For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
A. WORKS
Refurbishment                  1,529.4887    5.1 4,093.8635   13.6 24,393.9237   81.3     -      - 30,017.2759   75.3 3,119.4161 26,897.8598
Subtotal WORKS                  1,529.4887    5.1 4,093.8635   13.6 24,393.9237   81.3      -     - 30,017.2759   75.3 3,119.4161 26,897.8598
B. GOODS
Equipment                       175.4375   18.0         -      -   799.2155   82.0        -      -    974.653    2.4   779.967      19.2485 175.4375
Furniture                          9.808   15.0         -      -    55.5787   85.0        -      -    65.3867    0.2   19.3366     36.2421    9.808
Vehicles                        103.4006   18.0         -      -   471.0473   82.0        -      -    574.448    1.4  460.2501      10.7973 103.4006
Teaching Materials & Supplies     60.882   28.7         -      -   151.3854   71.3        -      -   212.2674    0.5  108.7144      65.3449  38.2081
Subtotal GOODS                    349.5282   19.1         -     -  1,477.2269   80.9        -     -  1,826.7551    4.6  1,368.268    131.6328 326.8543
C. SERVICES
InternationalTechnicalAssistance       -      -         -      -  2,093.7819   91.5 193.7388    8.5  2,287.5207    5.7 2,287.5207        -        -
NationalTechnicalAssistance     410.2696   11.8 1,134.0884   32.7  1,928.2021   55.5      -      -  3,472.5601    8.7         -  3,472.5601
Training                               -      -   408.918   45.9   481.2485   54.1        -      -   890.1665    2.2          -   890.1665
Fellowships                            -      -         -      -   380.1919  100.0        -      -   380.1919    1.0  380.1919           -        -
Subtotal SERVICES                 410.2696    5.8 1,543.0064   21.9  4,883.4243   69.5 193.7388    2.8  7,030.4391   17.6 2,667.7126  4,362.7266
D. Loan Front-End Fee                   -      -          -     -       308.3  100.0       -      -       308.3   0.8      308.3           -
E. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT
COSTS
Salaries                        187.1116  100.0         -      -          -      -        -      -   187.1116    0.5          -   187.1116        -
Operating Costs                 130.2782   25.2  386.2757   74.8          -      -        -      -   516.5539    1.3  112.4868    395.2547   8.8124
Subtotal INCREMENTAL              317.3898   45.1  386.2757   54.9          -     -         -     -   703.6655    1.8  112.4868    582.3663   8.8124
RECURRENT COSTS
2,606.6762    6.5 6,023.1457   15.1 31,062.8749   77.9 193.7388    0.5 39,886.4356  100.0 7,576.1836 31,974.5854 335.6667



Page 47
Annex 6
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Procurement Arrangements and Allocation of Loan Proceeds
A. Procurement Methods and Thresholds
Procurement of Works (US$30.0 Million): Civil works will be contracted in accordance with
the Bank's published Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995,
revised January 1999), through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). For contracts below
US$700,000 National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an
aggregate amount of US$20.0 million, would be followed utilizing the Standard NCB document for Small
Works developed by the ECA Region which is acceptable to the Borrower. Civil works under the project
include energy efficiency improvements and emergency repairs for about 120 schools, including three
pedagogical institutes, as well as renovation of the MES Examination Center.
Procurement of Goods (US$1.8 Million): Procurement of goods would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's published Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revisedJanuary1999). Goods to be financed under the Loan include: office equipment,
computers, off-the-shelf software, furniture, materials, dissemination of mass media materials, vehicles,
and equipment for reproduction of examinations. Contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 would
be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures (total aggregate amount of
US$0.5 Million). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be procured under International
Shopping (IS) procedures (total aggregate amount of US$0.6 Million). Contracts estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 may be contracted through National Shopping (NS) procedures (total aggregate amount
of US$0.6 million).
Procurement of Consulting Services and Training (US$7.0 Million): Services would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's published Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised January 1999). Services to be financed
under the Loan include consulting services; training courses, fellowships, and study tours; research
studies and surveys. The majority of Bank-financed contracts for technical assistance and training would
be awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures (US$3.0 million).
Contracts for training, fellowships, seminars, and study tours would be contracted through Selection
under Fixed Budget (SFB) procedures (US$0.4 million). Individual consultants would be contracted in
accordance with procedures for Selection of Individual Consultants (IC) according to the Bank
Guidelines and based on the comparison of CVs (US$1.8 million). Non-Bank financed (NBF) bilateral
technical assistance is included in the project totaling US$1.8 Million. During Negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that individual consultants will be selected on the basis of comparison
of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment in response to advertisements of the
positions in a newspaper with national circulation. In addition, the qualifications and experience of
procurement experts to be funded through donors will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$0.7 Million): Incremental recurrent costs are non-Bank
financed, and cover incremental vehicle operating costs and incremental staff for the Curriculum
Development and Examinations Center at the central MES level. The Government of Latvia will finance
all recurrent costs.
Review of Procurement Decisions: Procurement of works, goods, and services will be carried
out according to the agreed procurement plan described in Table 6.B and will be subject to the reviews
noted in Table 6.C of this Annex.



Page 48
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Expenditure                             Procurement Method                              Total Cost
Category                                                                             (including
contingencies)
International     National
Competitive     Competitive
Bidding         Bidding          Other           N.B.F.
INVESTMENT COSTS:
1. WORKS
School Building                8.8             19.9                            1.3             30.0
Improvements                  (7.5)          (16.9)                          (-)              (24.4)
2. GOODS
Equipment/Fumiture                                              1.2 a/          0.028           1.2
(0.9)                           (0.9)
Vehicles                       0.5                              0.05 b/                         0.6
(0.4)                          (0.04)                           (0.5)
3. SERVICES
Technical Assistance                                            4.0 c/          1.8             5.8
(4.0)                           (4.0)
Training/Fellowships/                                           1.3 c/                           1.3
Study Tours                                                    (1.0)                            (1.0)
INCREMENTAL
RECURRENT COSTS:
Salaries/Operating Costs                                                        0.7             0.7
(-)             (-)
Front End Fee:                                                    0.3 d/                          0.3
(0.3)                           (0.3)
TOTAL:           9.3            19.9             6.9              3.8            39.9
(7.9)          (16.9)           (6.2)          (- )            (31.1)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel financing and consultancies under trust funds
a/ Office Equipment and Fumiture procured through Intemational Shopping (IS: US$0.63 Million) and; Production and reproduction of
materials procured through National Shopping (NS: US$0.64 Million).
b/ Two vehicles procured at project start up through International Shopping procedures (IS: US$48,100).
c/ Technical Assistance and Training packaged jointly by activity: QCBS (Aggregate US$3.0 M); SFB (Aggregate. USSO.4 M);
ICQ (Aggregate US$1.8 M); NBF (Aggregate US$1.8 Million);
d/ Front-end Fee: 1% of IBRD Loan.



Page 49
Annex 6, Table B: Schedule of Procurement Arrangements
Total Cost   # of  Procurement    Date of    Responsible  Estimated  Estimated Contract
(US$000)  Pckgs   Method    Advertisement    Unit         Contract   Execution Period
2/                        3/     Award Date
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE:                                           Feb. 16,1999    IBRD
PROCUREMENT WORKSHOP:                                                    Jun-99    MES-PMU
PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP:                                                 Jun-99    MES-PMU
PROCUREMENT PACKAGES: 1/
I. WORKS:
A.1 Renovation of General, Vocational and
Technical Schools, & Pedagogical Inst.
Phase t-A - 7 school sites
Package 1-A-(i)                     $ 509.5       1       NCB         May-99      MES-PMU    Aug-99         08199-12099
Package 1-A-(ii)                    $ 360.0       1       NCB         May-99      MES-PMU    Aug-99         08/99-12199
Package I-A-(iii)                   $ 93.0        1       NCB         May-99      MES-PMU    Aug-99         08/99-12199
Package 1-A-(iv)                    $ 1947.9      1       NCB         May-99      MES-PMU    Aug-99         08/99-12/99
Package 1-A-(v)                     $ 152.0       1       NCB         May-99      MES-PMU    Aug-99         08/99-12/99
Subtotal $ 1,262.4
Phase 1-B -- 30 school sites          _
Package 1-B-(i)                     $ 557.8       1       NCB          Jan-00     MES-PMU       Apr-00      04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(ii)                     $ 383.9     1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04100-09/00
Package 1-B-(iii)                    $ 635.9      1       NCB          Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(iv)                     $ 135.9     1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(v)                      $ 329.9      1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(vi)                     $ 659.8      1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(vii)                    $ 388.1      1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(viii)                  $ 415.1       1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1 -B-(ix)                   $ 667.8       1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(x)                     $ 634.7       1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04100-09100
Package 1-B-(xi)                    $ 351.5       1       NCB          Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(xii)                    $ 709.3      1        ICB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(xiii)                  $ 445.5       1       NCB          Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(xiv)                   $ 632.7       1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(xv)                    $ 237.8       1       NCB          Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(xvi)                    $ 690.8      1        NCB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1 -B-(xvii)                 $ 1,218.0     1        ICB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Package 1-B-(xviii)                  $ 1,496.1    1        ICB         Jan-00      MES-PMU      Apr-00       04/00-09/00
Subtotal $ 10,590.6
Phase 2 -- 39 school sites
10 Packages by Geographic Region                                                                        .
at about US$0.7 Million/Package    $ 6,842.4    10       NCB          Jan-01     MES-PMU       Apr-01      04/01-12/02
1 Package (Secondary Ed.)           $  850.2      1        ICB         Jan-01     MES-PMU       Apr-01      04/01-12/02
1 Package (Ped. Inst.)              $ 1,358.1     I        ICB         Jan-01     MES-PMU       Apr-01      04/01-12/02
Phase 3 - 38 school sites                                           _             _
7 Packages by Geographic Region                                                              i
at about US$0.6.Million/Package    [$ 4,315.8    7       NCB          Jan-02     MES-PMU       Apr-02      04/02-10/03
3 Packages by Geographic Region     [$ 3,149.4    3        ICB         Jan-02     MES-PMU       Apr-02       04/02-10/03
at about US$1.0 Million/Package    [ _                           . _ _ _



Page 50
Total Cost   # of  Procurement    Date of    Responsible  Estimat  Contract
(US$000)  Pckgs   Method    Advertisement       Unit      Contract   Execution Period
2/                        3/     Award Date
Local Community Contribution           X_=
Interior/Exterior Improvements      $ 1,318.5  _                          -       Municipalities, schools
B.2 National Standardized Assessment Instr.
Renovation of Examination Center    $  329.9     1       NCB         May-99     CDEC-PMU    Aug-99         08/99-12/99
Subtotal WORKS:  $ 30,017.3
It. GOODS:
A.1 Improvement of General Schools
School Consolidation Vehicles        $  526.3   1         ICB        Nov-99     MOES-PMU    Feb-00           Mar-00
Supervision of Works Vehicles        $   20.0   1         Is         May-99    MOES-PMU    Jul-99            Aug-99
B.1 National Content Standards        1
Production/Reproduction of Materials  $  206.1  6+       NS        Continuous     CDEC
B.2 National Standardized Assessment lnstr.
Office Equipment & Furniture/Elevator  $  215.3   2        Is         Jun-99     CDEC/PMU    Sep-99           Oct-99
Examinations Production/Dissemination    $   28.2  6+     NS        Continuous     CDEC
B.3 Communications Strategy                      I
Office Equipment (with B2 above)     $   11.9   1         is          Jun-99    MOES/PMU    Sep-99            Oct-99
I
B.4 School Self-Evaluation Model: Quality Imp.      _
Production/Reproduction Trg. Materials  $  403.01 24+     NS        Continuous   DGEIPMU
Vehicles (tendered with A-1 above)    $   28.1   1         Is         May-99     MOES-PMU    Jul-99           Aug-99
Office Equipment (tend. With B-2 above)  $  297.0   1     IS          Jun-99     DGE/PMU       Sep-99         Oct-99
B.5 Strengthen Policy Capacity
Office Equipment & Furniture (w/B2    $   36.6   1         IS         Jun-99     MOES/PMU    Sep-99           Oct-99
above)
Training Materials                    $    4.6  8+        NS        Cont'nuous  MOES/PMU
C.1 Project Management
PMU Office Equipment & Furniture     $   21.9   1         Is          Jun-99        PMU        Sep-99         Oct-99
PMU Operating Materials and Supplies    $   27.7  =                 Continuous      PMU
Subtotal GOODS: $ 1,826.6
Ill. SERVICES:
A.1-3 Renovation of General, Vocational and
Technical Schools, & Pedagogical lnst:
Energy Efficiency TA & Trg.[lnt.]  [ $  193.7 _      ,__   _ _8__
Engineer/Planners, Component SPN    $   300.3   1         ICQ         Feb-99     MES-PMU    Mar-99         03199-09103
Design and Supervision of Works
Phase I                             $  649.2   4        NBF         May-99      MES-PMU       Jul-99      07199-08/01
Phase 11                            $  438.6   4        NBF          Jan-01     MES-PMU       Apr-01      04101-08/03
Phase Ill                           $  456.5   4        NBF          Jan-02     MES-PMU       Apr-02      04/02-03/04
Procurement Consulting Services -Works
Phase I                             $   70.0   1       QCBS          Jan-99     MES-PMU       Mar-99      04/99-08/01
Phase ll                            $   74.2   1        QCBS         Jan-01     MES-PMU       Mar-01      04/99-08/02
Phase IlIl                          $   78.7   1       QCBS         Jan-02      MES-PMU       Mar-02      04/99-08/03



Page 51
Total Cost   # of  Procurement    Date of    Responsible  Estimated  Estimated Contract
(US$'000)  Pckgs   Method    Advertisement      Unit       Contract   Execution Period
2/                        3/      Award Date
B.1 National Content Standards
Institutional Structure               $  169.5   6        ICQ         Mar-99        CDEC        May-99       04199-09103
Staff Development and Standards      $  607.3   1        QCBS         Mar-99       CDEC        May-99       06/99-05/02
Process
Stakeholder Survey                    $    1.1   1        SFB          Sep-02       CDEC        Sep-02       10/02-11/02
MIS Web Programmer                    $   39.2   1        ICQ         May-01        CDEC        Jun-01       06/01-05102
B.2 National Standardized Assessment lnstr.
Institutional Structure               $   84.4  8+        ICQ          Mar-99       CDEC        May-99       04/99-09103
Staff Development                     $   55.0   1        SFB        Continuous     CDEC
Translation Services                  $   12.8  5+        ICQ        Continuous     CDEC
Assessments Experts                   $  316.6   1        QCBS         Jun-99       CDEC        Sep-99        10/99-6/02
B.3 Communications Strategy & Public Relations
Institutional Structure               $   51.3   1        ICQ          Mar-99       MOES        May-99       04/99-09/03
Dev. & Impl. Comm. Strategy           $  600.2   1       QCBS          Jun-99       MOES        Sep-99       10/99-08/03
___________ I           I                                   ___    ___    _____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  
B.4 School Self-Evaluation Model: Quality Imp.     _
Institutional Structure               $  174.31  4        ICQ         May-99       DGE/SIE      Aug-99       04/99-09/03
Staff Dev. - Design&Delivery of Trg.  $  663.1   1       QCBS          Jun-99      DGE/SIE      Sep-99       10/99-06/02
Implementation Si Process - Trg.      $  501.9   1       QCBS          Jun-99      DGE/SIE      Sep-99       10/99-06/02
Expansion of SI Program -TA &Trg.     $  104.2   1       QCBS          Mar-02      DGE/SIE       Jul-02      07/02-09/03
B.5 Strengthen Capacity for Policy Formulation    -
Structural Unit                       $  225.9   4         ICQ        May-99      MOES/PMU    Aug-99         04/99-09/03
Staff Development [Various over 4 years]  $  268.8  10    SFB        Continuous  MOES/PMU
TA - Policy Studies                   $   21.31  3         ICQ       Continuous  MOES/PMU
TA Education MIS [Annual short input]  $  154. 414         ICQ       Continuous  MOES/PMU
C.1 Project Management                             _                                                  _          _
Project Management & Adm. TA          $  263.6   5  1    ICQ           Feb-99     MOES-PMU    Apr-99         04/99-09/03
Procurement Exprt/Accting. Standards  $  271.4            N                      MOES-PMU
Trg. - Management/Finance/Proc         $  113.8  7+        SFB       Continuous  MOES-PMU
Evaluation                            $   43.5   2        ICQ      Sept/01&Septo MOES-PMU
_ _ _ _       ~~~3
Audits [Five Annual Audits]           $   25.6        i      F         Annual    MOES-PMU
Subtotal SERVICES: $ 7,030.4
IV. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS:  i_i___ 
A.1 Improvement of General Schools                       I
Vehicle Operating Costs               $   39.6      . _____                      Municipalities
B.1 National Content Standards           _          _                                  _    _
Standards Team Operating Budget    |E$ 10.2              L                             CD
B.2 National Standardized Assessment lnstr.
Examinations Center Staff & OC         $  200.0 |      _         _ ; _         |    CDEC
B.3. Communications Strateby
Operating Budget                      $   12.3|                                     MOES
B.4 School Self-Improvement             _                     _       I
Operating materials and supplies      $  436.6|                    _             Municipalities



Page 52
Total Cost   # of  Procurement    Date of   | Responsible  Estimated  Estimated Contract
(US$'000)  Pckgs    Method    Advertisement         Unit      Contract    Execution Period
2/                          3/      Award Date
B.5 Policy Capacity Strengthening
Operating Materials                     $      4.9      .                                MOES
Subtotal Incremental Recurrent Costs:  $  703.7 =
Front-End Fee (1% of Loan)  $  308.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:  $ 39,886.3
1/ Packages are listed by ComponentVActivity reference.
21 PROCUREMENT METHODS:
Works and Goods:                                             3/ RESPONSIBLE UNITS:
ICB: International Competitive Bidding                       CDEC: Curriculum Development and Examination Center
NCB: National Competitive Bidding                            DGE: Department of General Education
IS: International Shopping                                   DITFM: Department of Information Technology and Facilities Management
NS: National Shopping                                        MOF: Ministry of Finance
Services:                                                    MOES: Ministry of Education and Science
QCBS: Quality-Cost Based Selection                           MOES-PMU: MOES-Project Management Unit
SFB: Selection under Fixed Budget                            PRPU/SS: Public Relations and Press Unit and State Secretary
ICQ: Individual Qualifications - CV Comparson                PSC: Project Steenng Committee
Other:                                                       SIE: State Inspection of Educabon
NBF: Non-Bank Financed                                       IBRD: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1/ Packages are listed by Component/Activity reference.
2/ PROCUREMENT METHODS:                I
Works and Goods:                       |                    3/ RESPONSIBLE UNITS:
ICB: International Competitive Bidding                      CDEC: Curriculum Development and Examination Center
NCB: National Competitive Bidding       _                   DGE: Department of General Education               I
IS: International Shopping                                  DITFM: Department of Information Technology and Facilities Management
NS: National Shopping                                       MOF: Ministry of Finance
Services:                                                   MES: Ministry of Education and Science
QCBS: Quality-Cost Based Selection                          MES-PMU: MES-Project Management Unit
SFB: Selection under Fixed Budget                           PRPU/SS: Public Relations and Press Unit and State Secretary
IC: Individual Consultants - CV Comparison                  PSC: Project Steering Committee
|Other:                                                     SIE: State Inspection of Education
NBF: Non-Bank Financed                                      IBRD: Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development



Page 53
Annex 6: Table C
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
SECTION 1: PROCUREMENT THRESHOLDS AND REVIEWS.
l                .          ....   .               Percentage of
ICB             NCB               IS              NS            Minor            Other        contracts'
value subject
Works          Methods        to prior review
WORKS
Procurement            Above            Below                                                                               37%
thresholds:          US$700,000      US$700,000
individuals and
aggregate                             Aggregate:
US$20 Million
Prior review          All tender      First NCB
documents and    tender docs.
contracts      and contract
GOODS
Procurement            Above                             Below           Below                                              35%
thresholds:          US$200,000                       US$200,000       US$50.000
individual and
aggregate                                              Aggregate       Aggregate
US$600,000      US$600,000
Prior Review         All bidding                         First            First
documents and                      Contract         Contract
contracts
SERVICES               QCBS              QBS         Fixed Budget    LCS                  ICQ
(Consultants and
Training)
Procurement          Aggregate:                        Aggregate                       Aggregate:                           800%
method thresholds   US$3.0 million                   US$0.4 million                   US$1.8 million
Prior Review          All TOR,                        All TOR and                       All TORs,                         100% of
Short Lists,                   Qualifications;                  Qualifications,                  LOI/TORs and
Qualifications.                  First contract                   and Terms of                       Consultant
and                         and contracts                    Employment                       Qualifications
Evaluations;                       above
First contract                   US$100,000
and contracts
above
USslo$o1 o    _ 
Expost Review       Ex-post review mechanism: Semester random sample reviews during supervision mission; Reviews in accordance with Para.4
of Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines (about 25% of documentation subject to expost review, mainly for national shopping.
would be reviewed during supervision missions).



Page 54
Briief statement
Responsibility for conducting all procurement under this Project will be within the MES's PMU, its procurement
of ficer, and procurement consultants to oversee procurement of works. The PMU was established in 1997, and
has received international technical assistance for procurement during the implementation of the PHRD Grant,
and for project preparation. The Project provides financing for a full-time procurement expert during the
duration of the Project, training and international technical assistance during implementation, and the services of
procurement consultants. During the Appraisal mission, a procurement consultant (Mr. Bengt Moreau) assessed
the capacity and technical assistance needs for procurement of works, goods, and services under this Project, and
prepared a Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, endorsed by the PAS. The Govermnent accepts the
Bank's standard bidding documents and use of the Bank's procurement Guidelines, standard ICB documents,
and agreed Regional NCB tender documents for works.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or               Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:             the first year ready by negotiations?
A CPAR for the Republic of Latvia has not been completed.   Yes  F  No   ] NCB Bidding Documents for Small
However, the Government agrees to use Bank SBD and has   Works and for ICB for goods and works, have been provided
been complying with the use of Bank Guidelines for     electronically to the PMU. The first tender for ICB for works
procurement of works, goods, and services.              is expected to be ready by Loan effectiveness.
Estimated date of     Estimated date of a i s , e ate t f reer        fiaDomestic Preference   Domestic Preference
Project Launch        publication of General  procurement subject to  for Goods.          for Works, if
Workshopn             Procurement Notice.    mandatory SPN in                             applicable.
Development
06/16/99                    02/16/99         Business.             Yes       No   X       Yes a        No X
Yes a)     No    X    .           
oRetroactive financing b t   o p
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Two international consultants, respectively for financial management systems and procurement management and reporting
participated during the appraisal mission, under separate terms of reference, financed under trust fuinds. The Borrower will
continue to receive bilateral funding for procurement advisory services and training, in particular, during the first year of
implementation to develop further procurement and financial management systems.
The PMU will also maintain logs for expressions of interest in response to General Procurement Notices, as well as logs of
contract awards by type of procurement to monitor aggregates.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
It is expected that grant and trust funds would be obtained for some activities of the project, and would be implemented
according to procurement procedures and thresholds to be defined in the grant agreement in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
W! _ MMw s A ANg '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m'                      VIME' Rag_nf10
Indicate name of Procurement  ff or Bank s staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Latvia Education Improvement Project      Name: V. Vijayaverl (X8 1467)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Advisory, as needed.



Page 55
B. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The proposed specific investment loan of US$3 1.1 Million would be disbursed over a
five-year period. Loan disbursements would be made in accordance with procedures described
in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, under the following Expenditure Categories:
Annex 6: Table D
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(Amounts in US$ Millions)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY            AMOUNT IN SUS    FINANCING PERCENTAGE
1. CIVIL WORKS                           22,000,000                85%
2. GOODS                                 1,320,000     *  100% of foreign expenditures;
(includes equipment, furniture computer                *  100% of local expenditures,
hardware and software, production and                     (ex-factory cost);
dissemination of mass media materials,                 .   85% of local expenditures for
vehicles, and office materials.                            items procured locally
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  4,300,000                 100%
(includes consulting services, training,
fellowships, studies, and research)
4. FRONT-END FEE                          311,200      Amount due under Section 2.04 of
the Loan Agreement.
5. UNALLOCATED                           3,191,800
TOTAL:                    31,100,000
Note: In the Loan Agreement, the Loan will be expressed in Euro.
Disbursements: The MES would open and maintain through the duration of the Project, a
Special Account in EUROs, in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The Initial
Deposit (Authorized Allocation) would be equivalent to about four month's expenditures, or
about US$2.0 million (or Euro equivalent). The MOW would comply with Disbursement
Handbook guidelines, including:
*  payments out of the Special Account would cover eligible expenditures under the Project,
the MOW would reimburse the Special Account for any ineligible expenditures;
*  replenishments to the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis, or whenever
the balance reaches less than one-third of the Authorized Allocation;
*  Statement of Expenditure (SOE) Procedures would be followed for expenditures for: (a)
goods under contracts costing less than US$300,000 equivalent each; (b) services of
consulting firms under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (c)
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000 each, all
under conditions to be specified to the Borrower.
* The Bank will consider with the Borrower PMR-based disbursements after a review and
acceptance of a first PRM quarterly report to be submitted by March 31, 2000.



Page 56
Annex 6: Table E
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Seete  ndn!;   Semester Disbursaiments               Cumula4tive Amount   f
Amount       Percent       Amount        Percent
December 31, 1999         2.2           7%            2.2          7%
June 30, 2000              1.6          5%            3.8          12%
December 31, 2000          1.6          5%            5.4          17%
June 30, 2001             2.5           8%            7.9          25%
December31, 2001          2.5           8%           10.4          33%
June 30, 2002             2.5           8%           12.9          41%
December 31,2002           1.0          13%          16.9          54%
June 30, 2003             4.6           15%          21.5          69%
September 30, 2003        4.0          13%           25.5          82%
March 31, 2004            3.1           10%          28.6          92%
September 30, 2004        2.5           8%           31.1         100%
TOTAL              31.1         100%
The Project would be completed on March 31, 2004. A period of six months would be
allowed to complete disbursements, with the Loan Closing Date on September 30,
2004.



Page 57
Annex 7
LATVIA: EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Development of Project Financial Management System (FMS)
The PMU has been implementing a PHRD Grant for more than one year. A Project accountant was
recruited to handle the transactions related to the Project. The accountant received training and is now
able to operate an accounting software package and produce adequate statements for financial reporting
under the Project.
A. Assessment of the Financial Management System
The main features of the FMS can be divided into two categories, accounting systems, and internal
controls:
(i) Accounting Systems:
Accounting software. A suitable off-the-shelf software was installed and made operational in December
1998 (Hansa Business Solution Ltd). The software operates under a Windows use-friendly environment,
is Year-2000 compliant, and meets flexibility requirements to generate several types of reports. The user
can switch quickly from English to Latvian and handle multiple currencies. As a standard feature of the
software, additional codes may be added to each expense to accommodate various breakdowns to meet
monitoring and progress reporting needs. A "Purchase Module" is included in the software and will be
used to monitor information on procurement and contracts.
Chart of Accounts. For the project, a customized Chart of Accounts was designed. Expenses are posted
according to four types of categories: Works, Goods, Services, and Others. To accommodate monitoring
needs for physical progress, several codes are defined to report expenses under various different criteria
according to Project Components, Activities, or currency paid.
Accounting entries. Based upon the double entry principle, the accounting system can easily produce a
trial balance which discloses the assets and liabilities: assets includes the balance of the commercial bank
account, Loan balance, and unused Loan balance; liabilities include the total amount of loan as the source
of funds; and expenses appear under four headings: Works, Goods, Services and Others.
(ii) Internal Control and Administrative Procedures:
Segregation of Functions. Procurement staff and consultants, and a Project Assistant would be in charge
of contract administration for all goods, works, and services. These staff would work closely with the
Accountant to ensure that systems and procedures are developed to monitor, file, pay against all contracts
and eligible project expenditures. In addition, there is a need to monitor the flow of documentation
between the PMU and the State Treasury which affects payment on invoices approved and submitted by
the PMU for payment. The PMU Accountant is responsible for processing all invoices and for
maintaining accounting records and reconciling the Special Account with the Bank statements. The
Project Accountant also has the responsibility of preparing the Financial Statements to be in included in
quarterly progress reports, including: Summary of Sources and Use of Funds; Use of Funds by Project



Page 58
Activity; Cash Withdrawal Statement; and Cash Forecast. The Project Accountant will maintain an
appropriate filing system and make supporting documents available for the annual audit.
Administrative Procedures. Contracts financed under the Project are approved by the PMU Manager
and signed by the State Secretary. Corresponding authorizations are attached to the invoices. A filing
system is in place using binders and grouped in three categories: (i) signed contracts; (ii) invoices,
payment and related authorizations and supporting documentation; and (iii) Loan accounting bank
statements, Withdrawal applications, and others.
Safeguarding of assets. There is no petty cash used in the PMU. All expenditures are paid through the
bank account.
Manual of Procedures. It is planned that an accounting Manual will be prepared to provide guidance for
entering expenditures. It will include patterns for recurring entries, and codification procedures for each
activity. The guidelines will be consistent with the Procurement Management Report and Physical Project
Progress Report.
B. Project Management Reporting (PMR), and PMR-Based Disbursements
Uses of Funds by Project Activity. The accounting system will be able to produce the required
documentation for an acceptable PMR. It was agreed that the software would be developed further to
ensure that all three modules are adequately structured to produce the financial summaries linked to other
progress monitoring indicators for physical progress, procurement, and budget planning. The budget
module is included in the software. Technical assistance will be provided to support the implementation
of all modules during the next three months.
Sources and Uses of Funds. The PMU expects to negotiate with Hansa to undertake a comprehensive
review of the project reporting requirements and prepare the Sources and Uses of Funds Statement by
extracting figures from the accounting database.
C- Conclusions:
Financial Management System:
The accounting system is reliable and provides accurate information. Although dealing on a cash basis for
the current PHRD Grant, the system is ready to switch to accruals since the Purchase ledger is included in
the package. Financing is provided under the project for additional training the Project Accountant to
undertake financial reporting to be compliant with progress reporting requirements. As a result of the
accounting review, it is clear that the PMU has the administrative capacity to handle properly the task of
disbursement for the new project. It also has the adequate capacity to generate auditable financial
statements.
Project Management Reporting system:
The software ensures a proper monitoring for each component and by each funding sources. It was
agreed with Hansa Company that additional training will be provided in 1999 for the implementation of
the budget module and preparation of reporting templates. The project staff will require further training
and software development from Hansa during the first year for the implementation of a budget module
and a PMR based disbursement module.



Page 59
Annex 8
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
60.7                377.3
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                  01/19/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     10/10/1998            12/07/1998
Negotiations                                    02/08/1999            03/15/1999
Board Date                                      03/18/1999           05/06/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/15/1999           08/04/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Fredrick L. Golladay                      Program Team Leader
Charles Abelmann                          Education Specialist
Aly Abu Akeel                                 Counsel
Nicholay Chistyakov                       Disbursement Officer
Angela Demas                             Operations Analyst
Yael Duthilleul                         Education Specialist
Patricia Kleysteuber                       Operations Officer
James Socknat                              Sector Leader
Roberto Tarallo                          Financial Specialist
Vijay Vijayaverl                        Procurement Specialist
Sancta Watley                            Projects Assistant
Angie Yacat-Viray                           Team Assistant



Page 60
Annex 9
Latvia Education Improvement Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. MES Draft Project Implementation Plan by Component
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Infrastructure Component Assessment, Gus Van Kempen, Architect-Consultant
2. Financial Management Assessment, Bernard Paris, Chartered Accountant-Consultant
3. Procurement Assessment, Bengt Moreau, Procurement Officer-Consultant
C. Other
1. Education Quality Component Proposal, Crystal Meriwether.
*Including electronic files.



Page 61
Annex 10
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Latvia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
MOP Schedule D
Generated: 10/14/98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
LV-PE-44804   IBRD43800    1999   REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                   RURAL DEVELOPMENT                10.50        0.00            0.00          10.29        0.00       0.00
LV-PE-40553   IBRD42860    1998   REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                   SOLID WASTE MGMT.                 7.95        0.00            0.00           7.95          .20      0.00
LV-PE-35807   IBRD41540   1997   REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                    WELFARE REFORM                   18.10        0.00            0.00          16.32        6.57       0.00
LV-PE-8532    IBRD41450    1997   REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                   HIGHWAY                          20.00        0.00            0.00          15.84        4.51       0.00
LV-PE-34584   IBRD39640    1996   REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                   MUN. SERVICES DEV.               27.30        0.00            0.00          13.18        9.28       0.00
LV-PE-8526    IBRD38900    1995   REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                   JELGAVA DIST. HEAT               14.00        0.00            0.00           3.66          .05      0.00
LV-PE-8529    IBRD37950    1995   GOVT. OF LATVIA                      ENTERP. FINANC. SECT             20.00        0.00            0.00           6.07       12.20       0.00
LV-PE-8529    IBRD37960    1995   GOVT. OF LATVIA                      ENTERP. FINANC. SECT             10.00        0.00            0.00           5.35       12.20       0.00
LV-PE-8529    IBRD37961    1995   GOVT. OF LATVIA                      ENTERP. FINANC. SECT              5.00        0.00            0.00            .62       12.20       0.00
LV-PE-8533    IBRD38140    1995   GOVT OF LATVIA                       LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT               4.00        0.00            0.00            .24        -.31       0.00
Total                                                                                                  136.85        0.00            0.00          79.52       56.90       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   55.70              118.07              173.77
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                1.71                 1.71
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  136.85              125.15              262.00
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                79.52                0.00               79.52
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 62
Annex 1 1: Latvia at a glance                                                        9129/98
Europe &    Lower-
POYVERTY and SOCIALC,ta                                                ldp--.                                    ---
LatvJa     Asia,  Incom                andpI~ft 0ja,oiiO
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       2,3       4736    2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  2,430     2;32C1    1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US.$ bifldns)l                    6.0    t10 06     2,818                      T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%/)                                      -1.3       0.2       1.2     GNGrs
Labor force I(%)                                     -1,11      0.5       1.3   i
Most recent estimate (latest yearavailable,, 19,91 -97)                           capita                       enlrolmeii
Poverty (% of population belowntional povefty line)     .
Urban population (%/ of totu population)              73         67       42
Life expectancy at birth, (years)                      70        69        69-
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               1 5       23        36 
Child malnutriton (056 of children under 5)                                 .,AcomS to saOale4rIr
Access to safe water (56. of population)                .         .        8 
Illiteracy (56. of population age I                     .         .        1 9
Gross primary enrollment (%/ of school-ag poato)       90        92       11ava
Male                                                  .         .       16         -      oe       I-noeg~
Female                                                .         .      113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
economictatloe
GOP (US$ billions)                            ..        ..      SI.       3.4
Gross domepstic investment/GDP                ..     36.5      18,8      19.7Tae
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..       .       0.19     50.
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..     339       10.7       9.0
Gross national savings/GOP                     .        .         .
Current account balancetGOP                    ..       ..      5.4      -6.1
Interest payments/GOP                          ,        .       0.3       0.4
Total detA/GOP                                 .        .       9.2       944
Total debtservice/exports                      .                2.4       4.3
Presen ~value of debt/GOP                               ..      8.6
Present value of debt/exports                          ..      16.0
lndebtecdness
197646  1987497     1996       1997  :1998.02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 3.6    -8.0       2.8      .7.                     Lti
GNP per capita                      3.0     -7,3      Is         .          . I       --oermdioe~vc
Exports of goods and services        ..      2,6    27.0       10A.   L......  -.                       
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                             ___
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rate 0ton .Putnl netm*
(56 of GDP)
Agriculture                                   ..     20.3       8.9         4      Q
Industry                                             44.4      31.9      30.7      s
Manufacturing                                       38.9      21.5      21.2 
Services                                             35.4      59.3      61.9       0
Private consumption                           ..     54.9      67.6      67.2 
General government consumption                ..      9.3      21.6      23.3G1                                 D
Imports of goods and services                  .        ..     59.0      60.6     _   _________________
1976-86  1987-97     1998      1997   1  rot mt,o
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  4.9      -9.0      -9.5      3.3    40 -
Industry                                     3.2   -14.2        3.0       6.1    20I
Manufacturing                               3.2   -13.0        3.0       9.4
Services                                     3.2     -1.4       5.1       8.2    -~                            9'6  9~7
Private consumption                          2.1    -10.7       0.3       1.8
General government consumption               5.2      2.8       3.0      14.4
Gross domestic investmnent                   6.9   -23.9       10.0      412 2     0
Imports of goods and services                 ..     -7.3      31.0      14.8              Eprs           lm rt
Gross national product                       3.6    -6.1        2.4       4.0   ____________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Organizational Chart
Minister
Financiers:                                         =                            Projt Steering
Stadars &Impoveent        *Sucomonet             Strante in                          VOSScodayeutcialr(10
, _, ~~~~~~~~..............  .......
Assessment  Program  Team Leader        Policy CapacityctManagr                                                  MOE
Lop oant  Disbcompet.s                        ProjeSuc Management                       Teaherrg         . Det
r _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~Engineering Leader .
Education Infrastructure           X
Education Qual:ity                                                                  Hbpea 
..~ ~ ~~~.... ..                                                      .            roe     .st
Cirriculum &:         Dept. General        Communications       Dept. of Education                    MOES:                        Regional School
Examinations            Education         Strategy & Public         Strategy &                        -Vocational                  Boards (26) and
Center-               -School SelfT-          Relations              Planning                         Education Dept. --selected school
-Standards &          Irnprovement         -Subcomponent          *Strengthening                      VOC Secondary                Municipals (I110)
Assessment              Program             Team Leader           Policy Capacit                      Schools
Subcomponents         Subcomponent                                Subcomponent                        -Teacher Trg. Dept.
(30 schools)                                                                   -Pedagogical
Institutes



MAP SECTION



IBRD 3001 0
21'                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                       27                                            AN
1  Neroto Sco     , School                     I   Llopoj Soomdory Vonohonol  dooo=o School No., 31                                                                                                                                                        This ooyb ooe . Troh. d                      Jy.h
2Tnopc, Bock School                         2   Cocid Socooyth-rs      . o'ctoo Eclodtio  No4                                                                                                                                                                      -deyeioUit,hTsMd
Bool Cthy Seondony School                    3   Agoa Vooflomod Schoo of Arts ondntohc                                                                                                 T. LoS Itson,oinsadonohr                                                                                                                   M
f-~~~~~~~ 
BAIhoot h S oood ony s chool                   B Rg SdodoSTdahgniceltmo.ovoooo S cholenoot                                                                                                                                                                 ndorsen  nonetoco
9Sk.ihoBcity ho                                     SgpoonoctoNoI                                                                                                                          Oceo        Ise Th.ednocN
SZ~ .e~~wd      chool               6 R55DMft    V=f.h0IS0 l                                                                                                                                                                      P                                                         .yl      u.te-t
13GAlooft Ct Sococho y Scho l                                                                                     c.t                                                          Al.""I                                                                                                                                           t,Icc
14 k bo oldodlojoSoo9ccySqol                  1          ?t6-hogotclNTho          .t~4))IcLo
16  Proohoo Boomc Sohool                                                                                             Ro06c 
3APoihpStoi Soooncloy Schoo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -A-y,/M  toO:\Ai'''o
19  Vlon  Acodory ShodrSCol                                                                                                        IVl  my                                                                                                                            IR                                            SS A
20  BohiioSoooodonySOlnool ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      all
21  l(oci Sonica~ SAool    No.no   i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ED     RA      IO
26 toni Son SSchooly c-
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
21 x-w               K./t"'Glhes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SM                      T Osrn
Jdrlsolne/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~            ~            ~           ~           ~            ~           ~          ~           ~           ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ EERTO
26  Z.,i B ~ ~         ~          ~         ~                                                                 Eb                     x    ooleo             'Pt.,-.                                            
56~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60
4(1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IX,~~~~~~MDS    f '
21  /. 7 Urhon Snhool Networks           '"'-'  Boilro  n              20                                                                                                To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p    C 1 UWi
Not Port of Prolocil                                                                                                                                                       27'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Lk
T. M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z.'k... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     tt   U



