Report No. PID7255
Project Name                     Latvia-Education Improvement Project
Region                           Europe And Central Asia
Sector                           Human Development Sector
Project ID                       LVPE49172
Borrower                         Government Of Latvia
Implementing Agency              Ministry Of Education And Science
Valnu Iela 2
Riga, Latvia 1050
Tel:     (371)7224-512
Fax:     (371)7212-005
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           January 7, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         December 7, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 16, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Country Background. The Republic of Latvia is situated on the eastern
coast of the Baltic Sea, and has an area of about 25,000 square miles and a
population of 2.5 million inhabitants. Latvia is firmly on track completing a
successful transition to a market economy and membership of the European Union
in the course of the next decade. After high inflation and sharp declines in
income and social indicators in the initial years after independence in 1990,
the economy has stabilized and growth has resumed. Latvia is implementing the
policies needed to meet the challenges presented by EU accession requirements
and maintaining economic growth. The Bank and other donors have developed
assistance programs to support EU accession and assist in maintaining
macroeconomic stability, including strengthened public administration, private
sector development, and development of social sector services, including
education.
2.      Sector Background.   Since Latvia regained its independence in 1991, the
education system has undergone decentralization and reform to meet the needs
of the transition to a market economy. Basic through secondary education is
free of charge, but parents are responsible for preschool education; nine-year
basic education is compulsory. Financial constraints have kept the sector
from accomplishing the objectives of reforms and education quality
improvements, while lack of investments into the sector has caused further
deterioration in infrastructure, and little investment into teachers training
and quality improvements, aggravated by an exodus of teachers to more
lucrative positions in other sectors. School funds are made available from
the State through a normative capitation system which favors areas of high
population density. Reforms in public administration have shifted financial
responsibilities for social services to the municipalities; rural
municipalities generate small amounts of tax revenue as their tax bases are
limited. The devolution of schools to the local municipal level has burdened
the small municipalities financially and administratively. Price escalation
for heating costs has burdened local municipalities with excessively high



operating costs forcing them to address problems of inefficiencies in their
school infrastructure. Energy consumption represents up to one-third of the
schools' operating costs, wasting significant financial and energy resources.
Many of the schools with high energy consumption and low thermal efficiency
were built during the Soviet period and energy efficiency improvements may
achieve up to a 60 percent reduction in heat consumption.
3.      Education policies and legislation continue to evolve as Latvia works at
addressing inefficiencies in the system and tries to raise quality and student
performance, with scarce financial resources: many rural schools have small
enrollments; the increased market price for energy claims a significant share
of education expenditures; switching from Russian to Latvian as the official
language of instruction has created animosity from the Russian community and
other minorities which make up over 40 percent of the population; production
of small numbers of textbooks is costly, and there are shortages of modern
teaching materials in Latvian; teacher training is inadequate, in particular,
taking into consideration poor qualifications and lack of knowledge of
effective teaching methods and programs for competitive labor markets and
life-long learning skills.
4.       Project Development Objectives.   The overall objective of the project
would be to launch a process of continuous improvement in the cost-
effectiveness of education in Latvia. The proposed Project's specific
development objectives would be to: (i) improve resource utilization through
increased efficiency of space utilization in the Regional school network and
through energy efficiency improvements; and (ii) build and strengthen
educational achievement and institutional management capacity to assess and
promote quality learning in basic and secondary education.
5.       Project Description.   The Project would have three components:    (i)
Infrastructure Efficiency (US$33.1 Million): School building improvements in
energy efficiency, space utilization and other repairs in about 110 general
schools, 15 vocational schools, and 3 pedagogical training institutes,
selected according to agreed criteria promoting the rationalization of
physical resources at the Regional level; (ii) Education Quality (US$6.0
Million): This component includes five sub-components: (a) Standards.
Development of performance and content standards for Latvian language and
social studies (civics, economics, and ethics); (b) Assessments. Development
of a standardized assessment instrument for Latvian language for ninth grade;
(c) Communications. Support the development of a public communications
strategy for informing stakeholders and facilitating feedback about
implementation of education reforms; (d) School Self-Improvement.
Development and implementation of a pilot model of school self-improvement in
about 30 schools, and dissemination nationally of school self-improvement
methods and handbook; and (e) Policy Analysis. Strengthen the capacity of
the MOES for policy making, including improved knowledge and skills in
education financing and statistical and research methodologies;     and   (iii)
Project Management (US$0.7 Million): strengthen the capacity of the MOES to
manage implementation of the Project in a timely and effective manner to
maximize Project benefits.
6.      Financing.   The project cost is estimated at US$40.1 million, including
contingencies, to be completed over a five-year period. The Project would be
financed mainly through a proposed World Bank Loan (US$31.1 million), the
Government of Latvia, including local municipality financing and local
- 2-



contributions (US$8.1 million and through bilateral donors and other trust
funds to be defined (US$0.8 million).
7.      Implementation.   A Project Management Unit (PMU), already established
under the Department of Education Strategy of the MOES for the preparation
phase of the Project, would oversee the implementation phase. Project
implementation would be guided and overseen through a Project Steering
Committee chaired by the Minister. The MOES would be responsible for
overseeing implementation of all project components and for ensuring the
achievement of the Project's Development Objectives. The PMU would be
responsible managerially and administratively for overall project
implementation, and will be attached to the Office of the State Secretary as
Project Director. To ensure success of the Project, the PMU would work
closely with MOES departments, Regional School Boards, municipal
representatives, and NGO partners hosting regular presentations to
stakeholders on achievements and acting on feedback received.
8.      Sustainability.   The provision of general education from pre-school
through secondary is the administrative and financial responsibility of
municipalities; thus, the community is a strong participant in ensuring school
maintenance and providing incremental resources to those allocated by the
central government for the education system. One of the factors of school
selection for the project is sustained and/or increased enrollment for schools
with a significant future life of over 10 years, as well as short investment
cost recovery periods mainly derived from energy savings. The MOES will enter
into agreements with individual project schools, securing the financial and
educational commitment from municipalities, project schools, and Regional
School Boards.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.     Project
implementation in Latvia has been good with the nine projects approved to
date. Project performance ratings have been satisfactory for both achievement
of development objectives and progress in implementation. Loan disbursements
also have generally been managed effectively and have been satisfactory.
Other lessons from projects in the social sectors in the ECA Region have been
taken into consideration, mainly that: (a) expectations for the sector reform
process have been too optimistic for both the World Bank and the client
countries; (b) adequate resources need to be committed by project managers
for proactive implementation supervision, for support to implementing units,
and for regular site visits;    (c) technical assistance needs to be well
defined and understood by both the recipient and the provider to ensure
realistic expectation and satisfactory mutually agreed outcomes; (d) the
institutional aspects of reforms and the local pace of change are as important
as technically sound strategies; (e) greater attention needs to be paid to
political climate for reforms and to effective communications efforts; and
(f) that projects have tended to be too complex and large in scope.
10.     Poverty Category.   Although the project is not a poverty alleviation
project, the majority of the beneficiaries of the project are in the poorer
rural areas; accordingly, the project would be considered in the "Program
of Targeted Interventions" for Poverty.
11.     Environmental Aspects.   The Project is rated as having no negative
environmental impact, Category "C".     The majority of Project funding is
allocated to energy efficiency improvement in school buildings and will have a
-3 -



significant impact in reduction of energy consumption, estimated at 20-30
percent on average, and for certain schools up to a 60 percent reduction in
heat consumption.
12.     Program Objective Categories.    The project addresses two program
objective categories: (i) Economic and Financial Management (3 percent); and
(ii) Poverty Alleviation (82 percent).
13.     Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Mr. Fredrick Golladay
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2850
Fax No.:         (202) 477-1996
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 15, 1998.
- 4 -



