Page  1
CONFORMED COPY      
LOAN NUMBER 4463 LV
Loan Agreement
(Education Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 19, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4463 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as 
amended through December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
Page  2
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Euro” and “EUR” each mean the lawful currency of the member states 
of the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the 
Treaty Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European 
Union;
(b)
“Minister” means the Minister of Education and Science of the 
Borrower;
(c)
“MES” means the Ministry of Education and Science of the Borrower;
(d)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established under the State 
Secretary of MES;
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(f)
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee to be established 
by the Borrower within MES in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (1) 
(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(g)
“Team Leaders” means the Team Leaders to be designated in 
accordance with the provision of paragraph A (1) (c ) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-eight million two hundred ninety thousand Euro (EUR 28,290,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Euro a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004, or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal 
to one percent (1%) of the amount of the loan, on or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable on April 15 and 
October 15 in each year.
Page  3
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through MES with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and educational standards, 
and shall provide, promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants’ services required under the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in  a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying 
out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
Page  4
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following are specified as additional conditions to 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
The Team Leaders have been appointed in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph A (1) (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the MES has: (i) operated the financial management system for the 
Project so as to be able to produce a project financial statement, including a 
summary of sources and uses of funds, a Special Account reconciliation 
statement, and a cash withdrawal statement; and (ii) produced a manual for the 
Project financial system.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV-1919
Latvia
Facsimile:
Page  5
371 7820010
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Riga, Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ Edmunds Krastins
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated 
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditure
Category
Euro equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
20,000,000
85% 
(2)
Goods 
 1,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures, 
(ex-factory 
cost)
and 85% of 
local
expenditures 
for
other items 
procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’
 3,900,000
100%
services and training
Page  6
(4)
Fee
   282,900
Amount due
under Section 
2.04
of this 
Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
 2,907,100
 _________
TOTAL
28,290,000
Page  7
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works 
under contracts costing less than EUR 273,000 equivalent each; (b) services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than EUR 91,000 equivalent each; 
and (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than EUR 
46,000 each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve energy efficiency and space 
utilization of educational facilities and to build and strengthen institutional 
management capacity to assess and promote quality education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Improving Operating Efficiency of School Buildings
Implementation of measures to improve energy efficiency and space 
utilization in a selected number of educational facilities, including:
(1)
replacement or repair of deteriorating roofs, elimination of 
structural weaknesses in building foundations and walls, repair of heating and 
electrical systems and other necessary repairs; and
(2)
increasing capacity utilization of school buildings through 
measures to consolidate schools wherever economically justifiable and to 
partition school interiors so as to improve space utilization.
Part B:
Improving Educational Quality 
Implementation of measures to strengthen institutional management capacity 
to assess and promote quality learning, including:
(1)
Setting Standards: development and adoption of content and 
performance standards in selected areas in each of the compulsory grades of 3, 6 
and 9;
(2)
Assessing Students Success: assistance to the unit in MES 
responsible for the development, implementation and dissemination of student 
achievement tests, including advisory services, training, equipment, renovation 
and improvement of facilities to comply with security requirements and provision 
of equipment and materials;
(3)
Communications Strategy: provision of technical assistance and 
training to assist MES to develop and to implement an effective public 
communications strategy, including the dissemination of information on school 
performance and student learning and the obtaining of feedback thereon from 
Page  8
stakeholders;
(4)
School Self-Improvement: provision of technical assistance, 
training and equipment to assist in the development and implementation of school 
self-improvement models in about 30 pilot schools, and extension of the same to 
schools to be renovated under Part A of the Project; and
(5)
Strengthening the Capacity for Policy Formulation: carrying out by 
MES, and in collaboration with regional school authorities, of: (a) studies in 
the areas of education governance, internal efficiency and quality, and (b) 
training of education administrators in the areas of policy analysis and policy 
making, education economics, and finance, and statistical analysis and 
evaluation.
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to PMU to 
strengthen its capacity in Project management and implementation and in 
monitoring of performance indicators.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day 
of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at 
a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a 
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part 
B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding to, but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to 
the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  9
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final 
repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate 
equal to the applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Euro for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest 
Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount for 
such 
Interest Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent 
of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Mark for 
value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single 
fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the 
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed 
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet 
withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
Page  10
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower 
shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be 
payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on 
the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for 
such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such 
Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any 
installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2014, the Borrower 
shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Selection of Consultants
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under the Project estimated to cost less than EUR 640,000 equivalent 
per contract up to an aggregate amount of EUR 18,200,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive procedures 
in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 185,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR 550,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Procurement Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 46,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed EUR 550,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Schedule; and (b) 
the first contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to 
Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement 
Page  12
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Selection of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection under a Fixed Budget
Services for training estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of EUR 
364,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 185,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 95,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of EUR 185,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  13
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Management of Project Implementation
(1)
The Borrower, acting through the Minister, shall:
(a)
assign the general responsibility for management of Project 
implementation to MES;
(b)
not later than September 30, 1999, establish the Steering Committee 
under the chairmanship of the Minister and under terms of reference agreed upon 
with the Bank, and assign to the Steering Committee the responsibility for 
facilitating Project implementation at the policy level and for ensuring 
participation of stakeholders in the design and monitoring of such 
implementation;
(c)
for coordination of the implementation of each component included 
in Part B of the Project, cause MES to appoint a full-time Team Leader, whose 
qualifications and experience are satisfactory the Bank;
(d)
cause MES not later than September 30, 1999, to select three 
regions to participate in activities under Part B of the Project in accordance 
with criteria agreed upon with the Bank; 
(e)
cause MES to undertake the selection of schools for activities 
included in Part A of the Project in accordance with criteria, methodology and 
time-schedule agreed upon with the Bank;
(f)
no later than March 31, 2000 prepare, in accordance with principles 
satisfactory to the Bank, and submit to the Bank a report on the financial 
management of the Project to form the basis for review between the Bank and the 
Borrower of the disbursement procedures for the Loan;
(g)
no later than September 31, 2002, submit to the Bank a plan to 
expand the program of school infrastructure improvement under Part A of the 
Project to schools not covered under the Project, including a proposed financing 
plan for the implementation thereof; and
(h)
cause the MES to maintain the PMU until Project completion with 
such staff and resources as shall be required for the PMU to perform the 
following functions under the Project:
(i)
coordination of the activities of various entities involved 
in Project implementation;
(ii)
preparation of work plans, including time-schedules, for 
Project implementation;
(iii)
formation, as necessary, under a qualified Project manager, 
of a working group for each Project component comprising 
representatives of stakeholders in such component (such as 
general and vocational schools, Regional School Boards, 
relevant departments of MES, and selected pedagogical 
institutes) and the preparation by such working groups, for 
incorporation into the work plans referred to in paragraph 
(ii) above, of activities included in their respective 
Project components;
(iv)
coordination and supervision of the preparation of bidding 
and contract documents under the Project, including 
Page  14
coordination of the recruitment of local and foreign 
consultants; and
(v)
monitoring of Project progress on the basis of indicators 
agreed upon with the Bank.
(2)
The Borrower, acting through MES, shall ensure the preparation through the 
PMU and the furnishing to the Bank of quarterly reports on Project progress.
(3)
The Borrower and the Bank shall, by December 31, 2000: (a) undertake a 
review of the performance of procurement of works under the National Competitive 
Bidding and International Competitive Bidding procedures referred to in Section 
I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) based on the conclusions of such 
review, agree, if necessary to achieve the Project objectives, to amend the 
aggregate amount of contracts to be awarded under each such procedure.
Part B:
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
(1)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators and measures set 
forth in the Project;
(2)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this 
Part B, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the 
Program during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(3)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this Part, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to EUR 
2,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to EUR 1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of EUR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Page  15
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
Page  16
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
