                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 30739

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (TF-27115 SCL-44630)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO28.29 (US$31.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

                                      FOR AN

                          EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                  February 11, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Lats (LV)
                                      1 LV = US$ 1.7
                                     US$ 1 = LV 0.56

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1   June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EIP     Education Improvement Project
EMIS    Education Management Information System
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
IDA     International Development Association
MES     Ministry of Education and Science
MOF     Ministry of Finance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMU     Project Management Unit
NPV     Net Present Value
TLP     Teaching Learning Program




                            Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director:     Roger Grawe
                           Sector Manager:      Maureen McLaughlin
                        Task Team Leader:       Ana Maria Jeria

                                           LATVIA
                            Latvia Education Improvement Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Remaining Education Reform Agenda in Latvia                             34
Annex 9 Borrower's Evaluation Report                                             36

Project ID: P049172                                                  Project Name: Latvia Education Improvement Project
Team Leader: Ana Maria Jeria                                         TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 11, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Latvia Education Improvement Project                     L/C/TF Number: TF-27115; SCL-44630
   Country/Department: LATVIA                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (31%); Secondary education (31%); Vocational
                            training (15%); General education sector (13%); Central government
                            administration (10%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Climate change (P); Social analysis and
                            monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/18/1996                                     Effective: 08/04/1999                02/15/2000
     Appraisal: 12/03/1998                                         MTR: 06/30/2002                  06/05/2002
      Approval: 05/06/1999                                      Closing: 09/30/2004                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LATVIA/MOES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Roger W. Grawe                                 Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Charles C. Griffin                             Christopher Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:             Ana Maria Jeria                                Frederick L. Golladay
ICR Primary Author:             Mariana Doina Moarcas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project development objectives were to improve energy efficiency and space utilization of educational
facilities and to build and strengthen institutional management capacity to assess and promote quality
learning. The goal of the project was to increase capacity within the Latvian education sector for
continuous improvement of education outcomes by strengthening the management of both resource and
inputs and the learning process.

Specifically, the project aimed at: (i) strengthening capacity to identify and correct inefficiencies in the use
of resources by supporting the MES and regional authorities in repairing and renovating school buildings
in order to reduce recurrent costs; and (ii) building capacity to strengthen the learning process by assisting
MES and regional boards in developing: (a) content and performance standards; (b) an assessment system
for grade 9; (c) a strategy for disseminating the results of these assessment to major groups of stakeholders;
(d) the capacity of schools to identify their weakness and to formulate initiatives to improve learning
outcomes; and (e) policy analytic capacity in the MES.

Background

Latvia regained control of its education system in 1991 after nearly a half century of central direction by
the Soviet authorities. The inherited education system not only failed to address the needs of its society and
economy, but also operated at a very high cost due to: occupying almost twice as much building space per
student as high performance education systems in Western Europe and North America, and spending more
than twice as much per student for the heating and lighting of schools as Western systems in similar
climates. The high cost of heating and lighting was due primarily to inefficient building designs, allocation
of far more space per student than essential, and, in some cases, to low quality construction and poor state
of repairs. The cost of heating and lighting had to be urgently reduced through upgrading school buildings
to appropriate standards of comfort.

At the same time, after the restoration of independence, the relevance and quality of education became an
issue : in the new economic environment, Latvia had to shift from the mastery of a body of knowledge to
the development of the ability to acquire new skills and to think critically, to integrate knowledge from
numerous sources, and, finally, to create the needed skills in order to better respond to the requirements of
an open society and a market economy.

The Government started addressing some of the issues by initiating pilot schemes for improvement of the
energy efficiency of school buildings, proposing a local government reform, placing responsibilities for the
delivery of social services on sub-national government units, reviewing some education quality aspects.
However, a more comprehensive approach was needed.

In this context, the Government requested Bank support for a sector investment to address the above issues.
The project was framed well within the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No. 17706LV
dated May 19, 1998) addressing two main CAS priority areas (out of a total of five): (i) developing the
capacities of sub-national governments, and (ii) improving the delivery of social services, including
education. These two objectives as formulated in the CAS were fully consistent with the Government's
national goals for education related to ensuring costs control, increasing the relevance and quality of
education and improving student learning.

The Education Improvement Project (EIP) was the first Bank supported education intervention in Latvia.
It was a complex project given its scope to address both the energy efficiency issues as well as a
comprehensive education quality reform. In the process, a lot of coordination work was needed on the
energy efficiency side between various authorities including participating municipalities and Ministry of


                                                      - 2 -

Finance, as well as different parties involved in education quality aspects (MES, Curriculum and
Assessment Center ­ ISEC, School Regional Boards, schools, teachers, students). The proposed loan was
US$31.1 million (EUR 28.2 million) contributing to a total estimated project cost of US$39.9 million

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of three main components planned for implementation over a five-year period.

Component A. Improving the Operating Efficiency of School Buildings (US$32.5 million)
Component B. Education Quality (US$6.3 million)
Component C. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements(US$0.8 million)

Component A. Improving the Operating Efficiency of School Buildings (US$32.5 million)

This component was aimed at improving energy efficiency and space utilization of education facilities
expected to result in a substantial reduction in recurrent expenditures. Envisaged measures to conserve
energy included: caulking windows and doors, reducing window sizes, installing high efficiency boilers,
providing heat regulators, and insulating ceilings and walls. The responsibility for analyzing the existent
inefficiencies and identifying the schools expected to be supported from the project was assigned to the
regional school boards in order to promote regional planning of educational infrastructure. The project
aimed at financing essential repairs for approximately 120 schools representing 10 percent of all schools in
Latvia and about a quarter of most urgently needed repairs. Local governments were expected to contribute
at least 20 percent of costs; benefiting municipalities were required to use the savings in recurrent costs that
resulted from project interventions in order to increase spending for education. It was expected that savings
following energy efficiency measures would include further improvements to physical facilities, upgrading
of school equipment, etc.

The component addressed the entire education system under three sub-components as follows:

A.1.     General Schools (US$24.4 million);
A.2.     Secondary Vocational and technical Schools (US$5.9 million); and
A.3.     Pedagogical Institutes ((US$2.1 million).

In terms of design, the objective of this component was in line with the project objectives set out above, as
well as with the Government priority to address energy efficiency issues in the education sector. The
implementing agency at the central level demonstrated its capacity to run this complex intervention which
required a lot of coordination both at the local and regional level (school principles, teachers, parents,
municipalities), but also at central level (Ministry of Finance, MES) with multiple parties involved in the
process. The component also supported the overall education reform initiatives in Latvia providing an
appropriate environment for education quality measures in schools which would have otherwise been
disadvantaged given their poor learning conditions.

Component B. Education Quality (US$6.3 million)

The objective of this component was to strengthen national capacity to assess and continuously improve the



                                                      - 3 -

quality of learning by strengthening the capacity at central, regional, and school levels to assess and
monitor the outcomes of the education system, to disseminate this information to key stakeholders and to
design and implement improvement programs at the school level. The component was designed to achieve
these objectives through five sub-components:

B.1. National Content Standards (US$1.0 million). This sub-component aimed at supporting the MES
develop performance and content standards for basic education (Latvian Language for native and
non-native speakers and for Social studies for grades 3, 6 and 9) within the National Curriculum for Basic
Education document principles.

B.2. National Standardized Assessment Instruments (US$1.3 million). This sub-component aimed at
supporting the MES to create a national student assessment system of Latvian language for grade 9 native
and non-native speakers, to be used for monitoring the system, improving teaching and learning practices,
and revising the curriculum.

B.3.    Communications Strategy to Improve Teaching and Learning (US$0.7 million).                     This
sub-component aimed at supporting the MES to develop the MES communications strategy and to ensure
all stakeholders in the Latvian educational sector are informed in an accurate and timely manner regarding
project activities and results in order to gain their support to improve student performance and elicit
feedback.

B.4. School Self-Evaluation Model to Promote School Quality Improvement (US$2.6 million). This
sub-component was focused on developing and piloting a school self-assessment and training model, as
well as a revised school external evaluation system.

B.5. Institutional Capacity Building (US$0.7 million). This sub-component was expected to strengthen
the capacity of the MES in the area of policy analysis through: (i) creating a policy unit at the MES; (ii)
providing training to this unit and relevant MES staff ; (iii) completing three policy studies, and (iii)
assessing the Latvian education management Information System (EMIS) and developing a proposal for its
effective implementation in coordination with current MES initiatives

The objective of this component was fully in line with the project objectives, as well as with the Latvian
Government priorities to strengthen institutional management capacity to assess and promote quality
learning. The sub-components were adequately designed to contribute to the achievement of the project
objectives and respond to complex education quality issues including subject standards, assessment, school
evaluation, and policy analysis capacity. The implementing agency had to run complex piloting activities
covering essential areas of the education sector.

A lot of capacity was created in this process. The value added by the Bank was ensured by its extensive
experience with comprehensive education reform in other countries constantly shared with the Borrower.

Component C. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements(US$0.8 million)

This component was expected to ensure the project was implemented in a timely and effective manner with
stakeholder satisfaction. Under this component, it was expected to have: (i) a fully staffed PMU managing
the project implementation and coordination with stakeholders; (ii) key performance indicators monitored
and feedback sent to stakeholders; (iii) project expenditures paid promptly with satisfactory accounting and
timely annual audits; and (v) a regular and effective communications strategy implemented to support



                                                     - 4 -

project objectives.

In terms of implementation arrangements, this was a PMU-implemented project. As stated above, the
central unit proved its capacity to run complex activities both under the energy infrastructure interventions
and education quality activities. Given the scope of the project, the PMU demonstrated a good monitoring
and field supervision capacity especially related to its energy efficiency interventions; at the same time, on
the education quality side, a lot of coordination was achieved at school, regional and central Ministry of
Education (MES) levels. However, it is now recognized by all parties involved that the project
implementation should have been more integrated into the daily life of the MES.

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Even though no formal Quality at Entry was performed at the time of project preparation and appraisal,
following the current Bank standards, Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory based on: (i) the consistency of
the project objectives with the priorities identified both by the Government and the Bank's sector priorities,
as reflected in the CAS (May, 1998); (ii) the adequacy of the project design given the needs of the
education sector at the time of project preparation; and (iii) the demonstrated capacity of the implementing
agency.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project has satisfactorily achieved its major objectives to improve energy efficiency and space
utilization of educational facilities and to build and strengthen institutional management capacity to assess
and promote quality learning. More specifically, the positive impact of the project was confirmed by: (i) the
increase in energy efficiency by a 10 percent reduction in the recurrent real cost per student which was
achieved in renovated project schools (the renovation of 127 schools is complete), as assumed at the project
appraisal stage; (ii) the development of new standards and programs for Latvian Language (for native and
non-native speakers) and for Social Sciences for grades 3, 6 and 9; (iii) the piloting of student achievement
assessment tools for grade 9 in Latvian Language (native Latvian and non-native Latvian) as well as the
centralized "live" exam organized for non-native Latvian Language; (iv) the development of new
methodologies for school evaluation; and (v) the introduction of new approaches to policy making. In this
process, significant capacity was created both at central and local level thorough training activities
supported by high quality technical assistance.

The EIP objectives were fully relevant to the country and sector needs and consistent with the CAS at the
time of project appraisal. The project fully met two major objectives stated in the CAS document (out of a
total of five): (i) developing the capacities of sub-national governments; and (ii) improving the delivery of
social services, including education. These objectives were achieved by strengthening the capacity of the
MES and sub-national governments to control costs and to identify and implement measures to
continuously improve learning.

Important steps have been made by the MES to ensure the sustainability of the project outcomes and
outputs through: the formal approval of subject standards by MES/Curriculum and Examinations Center



                                                       - 5 -

(ISEC), the establishment of a communications unit within the MES to take over the communication
function initiated under the project, and the administration of the first "live" centralized exam for grade 9
Latvian Language (non-native speakers) in June 2004.

The most significant strength, and possibly the most important and lasting legacy of the EIP is the capacity
created both at local and central level to address both cost efficiency issues and education quality issues.
Municipalities have now the technical capacity to access other funds to further increase energy efficiency in
schools. The numerous seminars and piloting activities organized under the project have increased the
individual capacity of the MES and ISEC staff in planning, developing and testing curriculum, assessment
and examination tools. At the same time, both central and local staff have tested school evaluation options
and have a better approach to informed decision making.

The most significant weakness of the project was related to the insufficient integration of project processes
in the daily activity of the MES; also, successive changes at the top MES level and MES reorganization
initiatives triggered a lack of continuity in project leadership and sometimes unclear priorities. As a result,
some specific sustainability aspects still need to be further addressed by MES in order to ensure all project
outcomes and outputs are scaled up and fully integrated as standard practices at different levels within the
education system. Such sustainability aspects are related to project activities successfully piloted under the
project including subject standards, school self evaluation and external evaluation, as well as the EMIS.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component A. Improving the Operating Efficiency of School Buildings (US$32.5 million)

Component A is rated Satisfactory. The component was expected to support the implementation of
measures to improve energy efficiency and space utilization in a selected number of educational facilities: a
total of approximately 120 general, secondary vocational and technical schools, and pedagogical institutes.
Project interventions included: (i) replacement or repair of deteriorated roofs; (ii) replacement of windows;
(iii) building insulation; (iv) renovation of heating systems; (v) renovation of ventilation, sewage and
electrical systems; and (vi) other necessary emergency and repair works; as well as (vii) partition of school
interiors to improve space utilization and necessary works related to increased capacity utilization of
schools through their consolidation.

Component A was implemented very efficiently. In total, 127 schools were renovated (112 general schools,
11 secondary vocational and technical schools, and 4 higher education institutions). The MES set financial
limits for the 26 Regions and 7 large Municipalities, which proposed school renovation projects. Regions
proposed 3 to 5 school projects each, which were evaluated by the PMU. Schools were selected under four
implementation stages during the project life, provided they were within the allocated financial limits, and
met the selection criteria and the objectives of the Component. Though the Project financed a major part of
the renovation costs, there were Municipalities which could not afford to raise the required counterpart
financing and thus failed to submit their projects.

The Project design assumed linking the selection of schools with the school optimization envisioned in
Regional Plans. However, during project implementation the Government of Latvia initiated a territorial
reform having a different implementation schedule than the project implementation period. Therefore, most
of the regions did not have such Regional Plans during projects selection; only two Regional Plans were
considered in the selection process. Overall, the selected renovation projects met the selection criteria;
however, few individual projects may have not met the highest priority conditions envisaged at the Project
preparation stage. The implementation of the school renovation projects was coordinated and supervised by



                                                       - 6 -

the PMU Component A team. The PMU together with the participating Municipalities conducted the
procurement activities and an Engineer assigned by the Municipalities supervised the works. The Key
Performance Indicators designed for this component facilitated a close monitoring of activities and
adequately reflected the achievement of expected outputs and outcomes.

Project Benefits: During field visits, many project stakeholders confirmed that the interventions had many
benefits, both measurable and non-measurable, for the participating schools, their occupants and the
Municipalities. The Project Final Evaluation Report prepared by the PMU includes an analysis of the
renovation projects.    This analysis shows that the Key Performance Indicator for the Component A
objective to reduce the recurrent real cost per student in participating schools by 10 percent by the end
2003 has been achieved. A detailed analysis was conducted by the PMU team by comparing costs before
and after the renovation works, and by calculating the projects' economic rate of return. However, the
results of the analysis may not be fully reliable mainly due to: numerous data uncertainties, difficulty of
considering environmental aspects or the availability of cheap fuel (such as wood), etc. Non-measurable
benefits include: the impact on the comfort level, environmental aspects, health, socio-cultural aspects, and
the general physical environment of the classrooms. Repairs of critical parts of buildings helped to avoid
emergency situations, and arrest further deterioration, thus contributing to improving the safety of school
teachers and students. The Component also contributed to the development of rural infrastructure and
significantly increased     the project management skills of the staff in participating schools and
Municipalities.

Based on the latest discussions with MES representatives, it appears that there is no immediate large scale
follow-up energy efficiency intervention confirmed and budgeted. At present, MES PMU reports show that
resources for further energy efficiency interventions are used in project participating schools; funds resulted
from savings following energy efficiency interventions are reinvested for further infrastructure
improvements. The MES has also put together a proposal for an "Education and Science Program of
Investments 2005-2009"; overall, 246 various projects are proposed for this program out of which about
37 would address energy efficiency needs, and local governments should be able to cover 20 percent of the
total costs of these projects..

The needs for school renovation will be growing and will have to be addressed. In the future, it is assumed
that municipalities would have the capacity to access EU structural funds. Therefore, it is important to
build on the experience gained during this Project; the MES use the project technical documents (e.g.
Guidelines on school selection, economic rate of return and net present value analyses, etc.) as a basis for
further interventions in the future.

Component B. Education Quality (US$6.3 million)

B.1. National Content Standards (US$1.0 million).

The project was expected to finance support of the MES in leading a process of wide consultation to define
what are the children expected to be able to do at different points in their education. At the time of project
preparation, the Ministry had already started this work and general content standards had been developed
for compulsory education. Immediate support was needed on defining content and performance standards
for specific subjects and interdisciplinary areas.

Under this sub-component, the Project was expected to support the development performance and content
standards for Latvian language (for native and non-native speakers) and for integrated Social Studies (for
grades 3, 6, and 9) within the National Curriculum for Basic Education (SSBE) document principles.The


                                                    - 7 -

sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

The sub-component objective was successfully reached through the development of performance and
content standards for Latvian language (for native and non-native speakers) and for integrated Social
Studies (including Ethics, Health, Civics education, Economics) for grades 3, 6, and 9. The process
included extensive training of the sub-component team, ISEC specialists, teachers, piloting activities in 27
general schools in Latvia for two years (from August 2001 to April 2003), broad consultations with all
parties involved, and provision of high quality methodological and training materials.

Specific sub-component outcomes and outputs include: the new standards and Teaching Learning Programs
(TLPs) developed under the project shifting from the teacher centered to a student centered approach. The
new standards were generally very well received in the system as confirmed by the teachers, and students in
pilot schools visited by subsequent Bank missions. Student attitudes are reported as having significantly
changed in pilot schools towards critical thinking, problem solving, easier communication; 31 standards
development team members and 23 MES and ISEC specialists were trained on specific subjects; 518 pilot
schools teachers and 48 school administration representatives were also trained; a number of important
publications were issued on the innovative aspects of the new subject standards. Wide consultations and
discussions confirmed the teachers, school principals, parents, students, and general public understanding
of the new standards implications. An important input in this process was provided by the high quality
technical assistance (TA) of the British Council.

An essential outcome of this sub-component is the increased capacity of ISEC/MES specialists to develop
and implement new subject standards. ISEC has incorporated the subject standards prepared under the
project into the larger package containing all 16 subject standards in Latvian compulsory education; the
knowledge acquired under the project piloting activities has significantly contributed to ISEC's capacity to
develop this package. Further on, this experience is essential for the upcoming preparation of standards for
non-compulsory education. The capacity of teachers in pilot schools has been significantly increased for the
implementation of new standards; at the same time, teachers are continuously involved in training activities
organized by Regional Education School Boards for non-pilot school teachers. A group of highly qualified
professionals (30) trained under the project are now being used as teacher trainers, textbooks evaluators,
and ISEC teacher methodologists. The training materials, methodological guidelines, Teachers' Support
Package delivered through the project are of very good quality and appreciated by beneficiaries. Teachers
developed skills of education researchers and increased their understanding of student achievement in such
studies as PISA, PIRLS, etc. The experience gained in Latvia is already getting recognition in the region:
the Latvian project team has recently been consulted by Estonian counterparts currently embarking on a
similar project; and an exchange of experience activities are being planned.

The main issues to be addressed in order to ensure the successful scaling-up of this project outputs into the
system are as follows: (i) as pointed out above, the MES formally approved the subject standards
developed and piloted under the project and incorporated them into the larger package of 16 new subject
standards prepared by ISEC. MES still needs to further process this full package in view of its formal use
in the system starting in school year 2005 (including aspects related to number of hours per subject and
associated TLPs); (ii) there is still a lot to be done in order to cover the in-service teacher training needs of
the schools not included in the project pilots as well as, more broadly, for all the other new subject
standards developed by ISEC. In this respect, the project team has prepared a teacher training needs
scheme that was discussed with MES/ISEC representatives. The MES has an annual budget for in-service
teacher training allocated to priority areas, and teachers are also supported by local budgets. However,
given such a comprehensive change in the system introducing 16 new standards in school year 2005-2006,
a centralized monitoring of the in-service teacher training demand and supply is needed; (iii) the reduced


                                                       - 8 -

availability of textbooks and teaching materials reflecting the new standards officially applicable in the
system starting in school year 2005-2006 was repeatedly mentioned to the Bank as a problem. Apparently,
the Ministry decision to start the application of the new subject standards only in 2005 was also made in
order to have sufficient time to address these needs; (iv) some uncertainty needs to be clarified related to the
integrated Social Sciences standards developed under the project (including Ethics, Health, Civics
Education, Economics), given that there is also a parallel standard for Ethics as a stand alone subject
(currently students being allowed to choose between Ethics and Religion) also developed by ISEC.

The design of this sub-component was appropriate for achieving the objective. The working groups and
teachers involved in piloting schools, the coordination process that involved both the central PMU, ISEC as
well as local schools make sustainability of the EIP subject standards activities likely. However, the final
measure of success will depend upon the new standards being taught in the classrooms and learned by the
students.

B.2. National Standardized Assessment Instruments (US$1.3 million).

Under this sub-component, the project was expected to support the creation of a national student
assessment system of Latvian language for grade 9 native and non-native speakers, to be used for
monitoring the system, improving the teaching and learning practices and revising the curriculum.

This sub-component is rated Satisfactory for having achieved its targets. Assessment tools were prepared
and pilot exams were organized for grade 9 Latvian Language exams for both native and non-native
speakers in May 2002 and 2003 [Grade 9 pilot exam in 2002: (a) Latvian language (native) ­ 1,953
students; (b) Latvian language (non-native) ­ 3,471 students. Grade 9 pilot exam in 2003: (a) Latvian
language (native) ­ 6,021 students 21 percent of the cohort); (b) Latvian language (non-native) ­ 3,080
students (19 percent of the cohort)] followed by the "live" exam for grade 9 Latvian Language for
non-native speakers in June 2004. The process included pre-testing exercises, improvement of assessing
instruments, capacity building through extensive training activities, development of detailed manuals,
monitoring and dissemination of information, and statistical analysis.

As announced by the MES earlier in 2004, due to limited funds, this exam was centrally marked only for
Latvian Language grade 9 for non-native speakers (9,718 minority school students participated). The
Latvian language grade 9 exam for native speakers was taken by 22,911 students and was marked at
regional and school level (19 regions involved) based on common marking criteria distributed by ISEC.
While the exam for native speakers was not centrally marked, some data was also collected at the regional
level by the markers trained under the project and supported by local school boards. This initiative ensured
a more objective evaluation of final marks for the grade 9 graduates.

Generally, the "live" examinations were considered a success. Teachers, principals met during the field
visits confirmed it was both well organized and expressed satisfaction with the exam results (largely
consistent with the students' level of achievement during the school year).

Specific outcomes and outputs under this sub-component include: (i) fully renovated and equipped ISEC
premises (security area for exam documents, computers and servers, SPPS software package for
processing assessment results, document sorting and packing equipment, optical mark reading and optical
character recognition technologies); (ii) assessment tools and support documents (Strategy for school
selection under pre-testing exercises, Handbook for item writers and test writers, Marking criteria for
Latvian Language, Handbook on understanding test statistics for teachers and testers ­ 1,800 copies
delivered, training videos for oral examinations ­ 1,185 copies delivered; Information on Latvian language


                                                     - 9 -

exam for grade 9 students, First Year Pilot Exam Report, and Second Year Pilot Exam Report, etc.);
substantial capacity created at national, regional and school level (item writer core group trained - 10 staff;
ISEC examination specialists trained ­ 10 staff; teachers trained on item writing ­ 15 staff; teachers trained
as interlocutors, assessors, markers ­ 300 staff; ISEC assessment group representatives trained ­ 20 staff;
Regional Education Boards trained on exam administration ­ 39 staff; Regional Education Board heads
trained on using assessment related data for school improvement ­ 39 staff).

Besides the new assessment instrument and procedures developed under the project to certify students'
achievement for Latvian Language, the most important outcome of the sub-component is the capacity
created both at ISEC level, but also at regional and local level to run the centralized examinations and use
the results for school improvement.

An important input for the above mentioned achievements was provided by the TA under this
sub-component, provided by the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA).

Full responsibility has been taken over by ISEC now for organizing and administrating the Latvian
language exams in the following years. The item writers trained under the EIP for Latvian language exams
(10 staff) are hired by ISEC and have already prepared 75 percent of the next year's exam.

An essential element is funds allocation for the centralized exams. The current MES position appears to be
that only the examination for grade 9 Latvian language for non-native speakers will be centrally marked in
2005; this decision was made due to other MES priorities to finance grade 12 centralized exams and,
therefore, funds became insufficient to cover also the Latvian language centralized exam for native
speakers. However, it is important for the teaching and learning of Latvian language that the essential
qualities of the new examination system are sustained through the allocation of sufficient resources. The
current model has fully demonstrated its advantages by promoting the development of all key language
skills. MES decision to address the shortage of funds issue by keeping the grade 9 Latvian Language exam
marked at regional and school level may be a temporary solution, but care should be taken not to
significantly after the integrity of the assessment schemes promoted through the project.

It is suggested that the Government should allocate sufficient funding to ISEC so that both the
examinations for native and non-native speakers for grade 9 may be maintained as centrally marked
examinations. About 21,960 students from Latvian (native) schools, and 9,222 students from minority
(non-native) schools would be taking the exam at the end of the next academic year; based on the available
data, the project staff estimated that the amount necessary to prepare and carry out a centrally marked
Latvian language exam for year 2005 is 62,300 LVL for the entire Grade 9 level. The quality assurance
function of the ISEC is also depending on adequate financing.

The sub-component was adequately designed taking into account the capacity created at ISEC level to run
centralized exams, and the demonstrated success of the "live" examination organized in 2004.

B.3. Communications Strategy to Improve Teaching and Learning (US$0.7 million).

Activities under this component were aimed at: (i) developing and implementing a communication
improvement strategy based on the assessment of MES communication practices, and (ii) developing and
implementing a dissemination strategy for project activities and results to provide appropriate stakeholder
information and elicit feedback about critical issues.

Overall, the sub-component has satisfactorily reached its objectives. The sub-component benefited from


                                                      - 10 -

TA provided by communications consultants especially useful at the project beginning, when there was a
slow process of clarifying the roles, content and functions of the sub-component. The assessment of MES
communication practices and the development of the MES communication strategy and EIP dissemination
strategy were completed and approved by MES in 2001; funds for their application were made available in
early 2002. The sub-component aimed at ensuring that the EIP interventions were correctly received by
stakeholders and that the needed level of understanding was reached on issues related to the quality and cost
of education in order to encourage pro-activeness and elicit stakeholders' views on the reform initiatives
under the project. In this respect, a number of booklets, brochures and communication materials has been
produced and distributed (portfolio available in the project files). The sub-component has also supported
the development of the MES web page and Intranet

Specific outputs of this project component include: workshops for the PMU staff, and communications
seminars for senior management staff, school boards, school principals, development of a visual identity of
the EIP documents; brochures targeting primary schools students and parents (5th and 9th grades);
information on EIP school renovation disseminated country wide; videos were produced and used in the
above-mentioned seminars, regional and national workshops for the media. An important outcome noted is
that following the sub-component training efforts, new communication practices have been adopted at
school and regional school boards level. The sub-component also performed random checking exercises for
the brochures delivered; for example, on "Child Starts Attending School" distributed to grade 1 parents, the
results of the exercise indicated that about 94 percent of the parents (297 parents out of 316 who responded
to the questionnaire sent) received the brochure and found the brochure useful. Parents also provided
suggestions for improving the brochure. The project team also prepared a feedback report from school
directors on changes in education. This report pointed out that, in general, school directors had a positive
attitude towards the education reforms initiated. School directors, however, have showed their interest to
get involved in the design and implementation of the reform process through two-way communication with
MES and Education Boards. The project team in collaboration with MES officials published a brochure on
education opportunities and distributed it to grades 8 and 9 students and parents. A very useful leaflet on
the centrally marked exam for grade 9 students, which was prepared in collaboration with the assessment
team. This leaflet is also available to students and other stakeholders through the Internet. The
sub-component team has also put a lot of effort in finalizing the Teachers' Support Package and the
Brochure on the EIP results.

The implementation of the MES communication strategy has been slow due to delays in the establishment
of a communication unit at MES. Finally, this unit was established in March 2004 and is functional. This
unit will take stock of all the communications activities initiated under the project and follow-up on keeping
all stakeholders informed and seeking their feedback on the reform initiatives of the MES.

In terms of design, the sub-component was adequately designed to achieve its objectives. However, the
sub-component staff often mentioned that a better position of the communication function may have been
directly under the project management, instead of under one of the components; this approach may have
been better for the overall coordination of communications activities.

Implementation under this sub-component was faced with various challenges. It was noted during the
implementation process that, given the highly politicized environment of ministries, information and
communication activities faced moments of high political sensitivities. Also, there is a high turnover of
communications staff in ministries. Each new minister changes the communications staff and there is little
institutional memory in this area. At the same time, lower level institutions such as the Regional School
Boards and schools are sometimes more responsive to communication initiatives, and should have a more




                                                    - 11 -

significant role in the process.

B.4. School Self-Evaluation Model to Promote School Quality Improvement (US$2.6 million).

Under this sub-component, the project was expected to support the development and piloting of the school
self-evaluation and its expansion to schools renovated under the project. At the same time, assistance was
provided for a revised school external evaluation system.

This sub-component is rated Satisfactory; it was successful in achieving its objectives through two sets of
activities:

(i)      for School Self Evaluation: piloting the school self evaluation model in 30 schools from nine
         regions in Latvia; organizing 37 seminars for 30 school teams, School Boards specialists,
         inspectors, school principals and deputies (about 450 participants) for developing the School Self
         Evaluation Methodology; providing school communication equipment in 30 pilot schools;
         organizing 12 seminars for school self evaluation trainers (78 trainers were certified); developing
         and publishing The Handbook on School Self Evaluation (August 2002) and distributing 1,800
         copies to all schools, Regional School Boards, Education State Inspectors, ministry officials, and
         the state library; organizing three seminars on using the school self evaluation methodology in
         schools renovated under the project; and
(ii)     for School External Evaluation: preparing a Study on School External Evaluation and the Role of
         the Education State Inspectorate; setting up a working group including MES representatives,
         inspectors, School Heads Association for the preparation of the School External Evaluation
         Methodology; piloting the methodology in four schools; training external evaluation experts (204
         participants in 10 seminars); organizing a second pilot in 4 schools; certifying 20 external
         evaluation experts; and publishing and distributing the School External Evaluation Handbook
         (May 2004) in 400 copies; preparing a booklet on Evaluation Level Descriptors, publishing and
         distributing 1,200 copies; distributing a CD for external evaluation experts (400 copies); eight
         schools were accredited following the new methodologies in the system.

The support provided by the TA under this sub-component, The Scottish Qualifications Authority (SOA),
was essential for these activities.

As a result of the above mentioned interventions, substantial capacity has been created at the central,
regional and local level for the use of the new methodologies for both school self evaluation and external
evaluation. This was demonstrated by the positive feedback of schools involved in the piloting exercises,
but also schools which were not involved in the process, but were willing to start applying the methodology
and prepared school development plans accordingly (e.g. in Liepaja).

The most important outcome of the component are probably the changing attitudes of teachers and
managers towards improving education quality, giving more responsibility to schools, shifting from
traditional school administration to a new culture of reflective and democratic quality management. The
model (based on Scottish experience) includes two stages: (i) internal school evaluation - covering seven
key areas (curriculum, teaching and learning, attainment, student support, ethos, resources, management) -
provides the teachers an opportunity to participate in debates on quality content and to make a realistic
assessment of both school strengths and weaknesses, and to decide on priorities for improvement. This also
includes the preparation of school development plans ultimately targeting better achievements for their
students; and (ii) external school evaluation ­ an agreed set of criteria similar to the ones used for the
internal school evaluation is used for school accreditation (including the accreditation of the principal and


                                                   - 12 -

study programs). It is important to note that the evaluation circle closes with external evaluation which is
no longer a traditional control instrument, but an instrument supporting the shift from simply checking the
school documents to actually focusing on students' achievements. In this process, parents and students
become clients. Far more accountability is given to all parties involved. There is a growing need for data
based decision making: indicators, standards, evidence are used for informed judgment. Best practice is
disseminated and schools learn how to work based on an agreement on what education quality means.

In 2004, schools were allowed to choose between the old evaluation system and the new one; some schools
went through the new accreditation process; their headmasters and school programs received the necessary
accreditation according to the new regulations and were satisfied with the new processes aimed at
supporting school development and better learning outcomes. At the same time, schools included under the
energy efficiency component were supported in developing their school development plans. However, a
decision needs to be made to formalize the new procedures in the system. A lot of capacity has been created
for the application of these new methodologies and it would be unfortunate not to use it. The MES is
considering three options: (i) to set up an independent new state agency; (ii) to establish a department in the
existing Higher Education Quality Assurance Center; or (iii) to incorporate the school self evaluation and
external evaluation functions in the State Inspectorate.          Although successful in piloting the school
evaluation activities, the sub-component design should have incorporated them into the regular activity of
the MES; this would have ensured the sustainability of these activities and would have speeded-up the
related decision making process in the MES. In the process, there may be stakeholders that have a more
sensitive position, different interests or priorities. For instance, the EIP Beneficiary Survey revealed a less
positive attitude of the traditional inspectors regarding the proposed changes.          Mechanisms for their
stronger involvement should have been identified at an early stage.

B.5. Institutional Capacity Building (US$0.7 million).

Under this sub-component, the project was expected to: (i) create a policy unit at the MES prior to policy
studies development; (ii) provide training to the policy unit and relevant MES staff in policy analysis and
policy making, economics and finance of education, statistical analysis and research design; (iii) complete
three policy studies; and (iv) assess Latvian education Management Information System (EMIS) to develop
a proposal for its effective implementation in coordination with current MES initiatives.

The overall implementation of B5 sub-component activities was satisfactorily completed. Despite a
significant start-up delay (two years), the sub-component managed to complete its activities in time.

The three policy studies on: (i) School Effectiveness; (ii) Basic Skills required by Social and Economic
Needs of Latvia; and (iii) Teaching Practices in Best-performing Schools in Latvia have been completed,
published and distributed widely to various government agencies, donors, education departments and
schools.

The studies were very well received in dissemination activities organized by the project for School Boards
representatives. Further dissemination for teachers, university representatives, pedagogical departments
and their students was organized during regional meetings before the opening of the new school year.
Information on the main findings and these studies was published in the LETA and the Diena newspaper.
The publication containing the three policy studies was also exhibited at a conference organized at the end
of June 2004.

In February 2004, the sub-component team, in cooperation with the MES Education Policy Department,
hosted a visit of 14 European education professionals from 9 countries under the Socrates Arion Program


                                                       - 13 -

"Quality in Education: Use of Policy Research for Decision Making". During the week the preliminary
results of the studies were presented and discussed with policy planners and developers from all over
Europe. Ideas were exchanged on how research is used in other countries to inform policy makers and
monitor performance.

The three studies were used as a vehicle for both addressing important education policy issues in Latvia,
but also training the MES personnel through their direct participation in preparing these documents. The
B5 sub-component has been very successful in increasing the individual capacity of the staff members of
the MES Policy Department; such training was focused on: education policy framework, use of research
for policy making needs, policy research and analysis methods, systemic approaches, quantitative
indicators, research design, data collection and analysis, communication strategies, policy report
development, strategic planning, etc. Seminars and presentations were delivered to top MES management
on the principles of a new management culture and the optimization of the education system.

The roles and responsibilities of the MES Policy department were reviewed and redefined including an
outline of the department policy analysis tasks. An assessment of the existing EMIS was done and based
on the findings of this exercise, the EMIS working group developed the EMIS strategic plan and funding
report.

The main outcome of this sub-component, as evidenced also by the Project Beneficiary Survey, is the
substantial increase in the individual capacity of the MES Policy Department in understanding the need for
policy analysis and effective analytical service within the MES, policy monitoring processes, effective
performance and efficient use of resources. Through their participation in the development of the studies,
the MES staff learned how to apply research results for policy analysis. This exercise provided valuable
information on the Latvian education system in general, looking into inputs, processes and outputs. The
contribution of the sub-component to the development of the MES analytical capacity was highly evaluated
by the MES management in 2003 when the project experts were invited to support the MES working group
on strategic planning at the time. Also, the EMIS expert was invited to second the State Secretary on the
Steering Committee for the LEIS (Latvia Education Information System).

Valuable TA support for the above mentioned activities was provided by the Harvard University Graduate
School of Education.

The institutionalization of the policy analysis capacity within the MES seems to be at some risk, first
because of the high staff turnover; apparently half of the staff trained in the MES Policy Department left
their positions due to the low salary level. Second, at the institutional level, the capacity created may not
be fully used, since the daily routine of the department appears to be actually focused on activities other
than policy analysis, in spite of the department mandate. Data collection is most often required with less
interpretation involved and policy analysis. High staff turnover should generally be prevented by providing
adequate incentives; otherwise the project impact may be affected. In the case of this sub-component
activities, as well as in the case of most of the project interventions, easier implementation as well as
sustainability would have been facilitated by placing the project unit within the MES structure.

Component C. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements (US$0.8 million)

The expected outcomes of the Project management sub-component included: (i) PMU fully staffed and
operating, managing the project implementation and coordination with stakeholders; (ii) key performance
indicators monitored with feedback to stakeholders; (iii) project expenditures paid promptly with
satisfactory accounting and timely annual audits; and (iv) regular and effective communications strategy


                                                     - 14 -

implemented to support Project objectives.

The component is rated Satisfactory. The PMU was fully staffed except for one position, the Education
Quality Component Leader. This position was not occupied at all since August 2003. This was one of the
factors that sometimes affected project implementation since a void was noted at times in the coordination
of education quality activities. However, project implementation continued satisfactorily due to the strong
leadership and professionalism of the education quality sub-components' heads and continuous efforts for
cooperation. The overall management of the project was also affected by the frequent changes at the top
MES level. According to the project design, the project director was supposed to be the Secretary of State.
There were four project directors/secretaries of state (three in 2003) during project implementation. With so
many changes at the top, there was little continuity and, at times, the PMU manager had to take over the
project director function too.

In terms of the project institutional arrangements, all parties involved recognized that the project
management would have been a far easier task provided the project had been implemented through the
MES units directly and not through a separate unit placed outside the MES. Also, the sustainability issues
faced, may have been dealt with differently in a fully integrated implementation unit. However, the project
met its targets. Despite also of the late loan effectiveness, and a slow start up of some activities, the project
achieved all key performance indicators and at times exceeded them. It depends now on the MES education
officials to take further steps in order to ensure the sustainability of project outcomes: important decisions
are still to be made for institutionalizing the school self evaluation and external evaluation methodologies,
to finalize the new standard packages, and to integrate the new data base policy analysis approaches as
standard practice of the MES.

The project implementation history is described in detail in the Project Evaluation Report (available in the
Project files) prepared by the PMU team. The document is a comprehensive record of the project outcomes
and outputs, also pointing at lessons learned and raising sustainability issues. In this respect, the project
team has also prepared a Sustainability Action Plan (SAP) which was endorsed by the MES management.
The MES Policy Department currently preparing the long term Strategic Plan of the MES has the
responsibility of including the SAP into this document. The project management has timely submitted the
quarterly monitoring reports and has monitored and updated the Key Performance Indicators. Such
indicators were adequately designed to facilitate the close monitoring of the project activities and progress.
Finally, the PMU has set up a EIP database as an inventory of all activities and outputs under the project
components and sub-components. All project documents were transferred to MES following a successful
project closing seminar organized at the end of September 2004.

Project Beneficiary Survey. The project contracted a Beneficiary Survey earlier in 2004. The
findings of the report confirm the high level of satisfaction with the project interventions for
energy efficiency: Ninety-five percent of the interviewed local government representatives were
satisfied with how the project was managed; target groups such as inspectors, school principals,
heads of school boards, teachers, and parents were most frequently in favor of the new teaching
standards developed under the project and clearly see the need to raise the quality of teaching and
learning in the Latvian schools. At the same time, the survey fully confirmed that there are further essential
needs that have to be addressed: textbooks and teaching materials adjusted to the new standards, teacher
training especially for the schools which were not covered by the project pilots; also, in general, it is
considered that more information and communication is needed in the system. Such needs were also
underlined in discussions with stakeholders during the field visits of the Bank mission and should become
priorities on the remaining agenda of the education sector.



                                                      - 15 -

Procurement activities were adequately implemented and timely completed. The financial management
arrangements of the project were highly satisfactory. Significant strengths included: (i) the extensive
experience of the PMU and its Chief Accountant in implementing Bank-financed projects and satisfying
Bank financial management requirements; and (ii) the unqualified audit reports and positive management
letters issued by the project auditors. In fact, the last two audits (2002 and 2003) had no internal control
issues identified in the Management Letter, which is relatively rare.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The Project was designed to monitor the results of the Energy Efficiency Component in achieving a
reduction of at least 10 percent (by end 2003) in the real recurrent cost per student in participating schools;
this target was achieved.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The Borrower has also calculated the annual rate of return for the participating schools under the Energy
Efficiency Component which went up to 39 percent. However, on average, the target of at least 12 percent
envisaged at appraisal was not met due to negative values in some schools. Yet, the Borrower's analysis
does not consider all economic factors, as well as non-measurable benefits. Moreover, not all data can be
considered accurate. Aspects related to both NPV and EER are discussed in more detail in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has significantly contributed to institutional development in the education sector. Local
governments have increased their ability to plan, attract financing, as well as organize and successfully
manage renovation works. The numerous seminars and training sessions organized under the project
piloting activities have enhanced the capacity both at MES central level and at regional and school levels of
planning, developing, and testing new subject standards using assessment and examination tools, applying
school self and external evaluation methods, and facilitating informed decision making in the sector.

Competent professionals trained under the project represent a real asset to the education system. Some of
them have been hired by the relevant institutions in the system (e.g. ISEC). Care should be taken that the
expertise and experience developed over the project life are not lost. Given the mixed aspects described in
the sections above highlighting both significant institutional development supported through project
activities, enhanced capacity at both central and local level (e.g. subject standards and student exams), but
also successfully piloted activities (e.g. school self and external evaluation model) that depend in the future
on hosting institutions that remain to be set up by the MES, the project institutional development is rated
Modest at this time.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The exchange rate fluctuations. Project implementation faced a difficult situation due to the exchange rate
fluctuations of the Euro. Originally, the loan amount was calculated according to the rate of EUR 1 = USD
1.1 = LVL 0.66. During the period of Project implementation in 2000 and 2001 the Euro experienced a
decrease in exchange rates against USD and LVL, when EUR 1 = LVL 0.53. This resulted in a deficit of
about LVL 3.3 million towards the end of 2001, putting at risk the implementation of school renovation
activities under stage 3. The Government support was critical and the situation was resolved when the



                                                      - 16 -

Government released a loan of LVL 3.3 million to the local governments to cover the financial gap. This
made it possible to carry out the project activities as planned and even to exceed them.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

School network optimization. The project envisaged an input on the optimization of the school network.
However, due to subsequent postponing of the administrative-territorial reform to 2004, it was not possible
to influence school network optimization during the life of the project. Optimization measures were
triggered only in few individual cases.

Loan spending. Due to fiscal deficit constraints, the budget allocations for CY 2003 and 2004 limited loan
spending. Consequently, a few planned activities were not completed (e.g. study tours) and about EUR 0.7
remained unspent. However, these activities were not crucial for the achievement of the project objectives
and the loan was 98.48 percent disbursed.

Institutional arrangements. The EIP was a PMU implemented project. Another option to implement the
project directly through the MES units and not through a separate unit placed outside the MES, would have
facilitated easier project processing as well as a smooth and fast assimilation of the project achievements in
the system.

Turnover of MES top management and staff. The overall management of the project was affected by the
frequent changes at top MES level. According to the project design, the project director was to be the
Secretary of State. There were four project directors/secretaries of state (three in 2003) during project
implementation. With so many changes at the top, there was little continuity and, at times, the PMU
manager had to take over the project director function.          Similarly, the project implementation and
sustainability was affected due to high staff turnover in MES departments (Policy Department).

PMU staffing. The PMU was fully staffed with the exception of the Education Quality Component Leader.
This was one of the factors that affected project implementation. However, due to the professionalism of
the sub-component leaders, the project achieved its targets.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Coordination and communication. The PMU had to put a lot of effort into ensuring a better coordination
and communication between its components and sub-components. At times, there was a lack of
coordination among project activities. Another factor that would have supported implementation would
have been a better communication relationship with MES.

Professionalism of PMU staff. A positive factor for the project implementation was the strong
professionalism of the PMU specialists in all areas: school rehabilitation and energy efficiency, education
quality, procurement and financial management. Procurement activities were adequately implemented and
timely completed. The financial management arrangements of the project were highly satisfactory.
Significant strengths included full compliance with Bank procurement and financial management
requirements. Unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued by the project auditors.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$39.9 million equivalent. Financing of the total cost
was shared between a Bank loan of US$31.1 million (EUR28.2 million), the Latvian Government



                                                      - 17 -

contribution of US$2.6, the Latvian Municipalities contribution of US$6.0 and other sources( US$0.2
million) over a five-year implementation period.

To date, the Bank loan was 98.48 percent disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as Likely. The project has attained major sustainable benefits related to both energy
efficiency measures and education quality interventions: local governments have the technical capacity to
replicate the project interventions in other schools in their jurisdictions, new subject standards for Latvian
Language and Social Sciences for grades 3, 6,.and 9 are available in the system, new assessment and
examination tools are tested and implemented, new school evaluation methods are available, more informed
decision making is now possible.

MES needs to take these achievements forward. Specifically, funds need to be made available for further
energy efficiency interventions, (see Annex 8) given the high needs the system still has. Municipalities
have acquired under the project the necessary capacity in order to further address energy efficiency needs
and to apply for EU and other funds in the future. Similarly, the project subject standards have been fully
integrated into the overall MES standards package, there is an important number of specialists trained
under the project in both subject standards and student exam preparation and implementation, some of them
hired by the ISEC. However, the measure of project sustainability also depends on the successfull
application of the entire MES package of subject standards in the system, on the host institutions for school
self evaluation and external evaluation and EMIS which are yet to be decided by MES. The MES PMU
team developed a Project Sustainability Action Plan emphasizing the above mentioned aspects; the MES
management decided this plan is to be included in the long term MES Strategic Plan being developed by
the MES Policy Department.


Beyond the scope of this project, in terms of the unfinished education reform agenda, there are important
needs that are still to be addressed. Some of these needs are related to financing of higher education, teacher
training, optimization of the school network. These were considered for a second Bank-financed education
project but, in view of the available European structural funds, the Latvian Government decided not to
borrow from the Bank. A detailed description of the remaining education agenda in Latvia is available
Additional Annex 8.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Some important steps have been made to ensure that project outcomes and outputs are institutionalized in
the system: subject standards were formally approved by MES/ISEC after being piloted for two years and
were fully incorporated into the larger package of 16 new subject standards. A communications unit was
set up within MES to take over the communication function initiated under the project.               The first
centralized exam was organized for grade 9 Latvian Language (non-native speakers).                  Transition
arrangements started during implementation especially related to subject standards and assessment as
follows: ISEC specialists were involved in the project standards preparation and qualified professionals
are now being used as teacher trainers, textbooks' evaluators, etc. Similarly, exam item writers trained
under the project were hired by ISEC and have already prepared 75 percent of the next year's exam. In
general, all project outputs were transferred to the appropriate MES departments, including a database
containing project documents. However, in order to ensure all project outcomes and outputs are scaled up



                                                    - 18 -

and fully integrated as standard practices at different levels within the education system, important Ministry
decisions are still to be made on issues including: the remaining processes related to the subject standards
application in the system and host institutions needed for project activities such as the school self
evaluation and external evaluation, as well as EMIS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank performance was satisfactory. The operation was adequately processed with significant value
added from the Bank through technical assistance during the preparation process, and through training and
international consulting services contracted through a PHRD Grant.

The project design was fully consistent with the Government priority needs in the sector and the CAS
which endorsed the need to develop the capacities of sub-national governments, and improving the delivery
of education services. At the time, lessons learned from two ongoing Human Development projects were
incorporated into the design of the proposed project especially related to project management arrangements.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank supervision of the project was satisfactory. The project was closely supervised by a team of
Bank specialists and consultants all through its implementation. The project had three Task Managers
during preparation and implementation. The MES team also received a lot of assistance from the local
Bank office staff. Given the complexity of the project, the Bank provided a lot of technical support during
its missions through competent staff and consultants with extensive experience in the education sector and
experienced procurement specialists capable to oversee both procurement and the energy efficiency
activities.

Intensive support was provided all through implementation through regular supervision missions. Detailed
aide memoires recorded the consultations with counterparts, findings and recommendations of the Bank
visits. A special attention was paid to the mid-term review mission when specialists from other regions
were involved together with staff, bringing in experience from other countries in ECA and elsewhere.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank team ensured full compliance with the
Bank policies, provided intensive technical support through its supervision missions and continuous
assistance through the field based staff.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in preparation is assessed Satisfactory. At the time, this was the first project
in the education sector to be supported by the Bank. The MES demonstrated its commitment by appointing
a project preparation team under the Department of Education Strategy, and by completing a detailed draft
Project Implementation Plan. The project concept was endorsed by the Cabinet of Ministers. It was
discussed with the public at large. MES and other ministries, as well as Regional and local level staff
participated in the preparation process, Regional School Boards conducted the school selection based on
the Guidelines and Criteria prepared by the MES. Experts in the construction area were consulted. The



                                                     - 19 -

Ministries of Finance and Economy endorsed the objectives of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The Government demonstrated a lot of
ownership especially towards the energy efficiency interventions. A critical moment during project
implementation was faced when funds became insufficient for completing the renovation works of all
schools included under the energy efficiency component; this was due to significant exchange rate
fluctuations. At the time the Government was very responsive and provided a loan of LVL 3.3 million to
the local governments to cover the financial gap. This made it possible to carry out the project activities as
planned and even to exceed them. Education quality interventions were also supported by the Government,
although some sustainability measures remain to be taken.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Overall, the implementing agency performed satisfactorily throughout the project. However, more internal
communication and coordination among components and sub-components should have been ensured. This
need appeared especially in the absence of an education quality component leader. At the same time, the
turnover of top MES leadership affected at times PMU activity.

Despite such managerial challenges, the implementing agency succeeded to ensure the successful
implementation of project activities.      Finally, even though the project reached its targets, all parties
involved recognized implementation would have been an easier process if the project had been implemented
directly through the MES departments.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the satisfactory rating for the performance of the Government and of the implementing agency,
the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Despite some of the challenges noted above, the
MES and the project Steering Committee maintained a strong interest in the project and assisted in
resolving important financial problems that arose during project implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Energy Efficiency of School Buildings

The project design assumed linking the selection of schools with the school optimization envisioned in
regional plans at the time of project preparation. However, during implementation the school network
optimization initiatives were dropped due to new territorial reforms initiated by the Government and having
a different implementation schedule than the project period.

Subject Standards

The main lessons learned under this sub-component are as follows: (i) the piloting exercises and the
training activities organized in the process have substantially increased the capacity of MES specialists and
teachers in the system to develop and implement new subject standards; while the project has supported a
lot of teacher training activities, such needs go beyond the project scope and financial capabilities, and need
to be centrally planned and monitored; (ii) a full integration of project activities in the MES/ISEC everyday
work may have facilitated easier communication, more flexibility related to technical aspects, and easier
agreements. This arrangement would have had a positive impact on faster processing approvals within the


                                                     - 20 -

MES and may have ensured an easier adjustment of project products to changes in education policies; (iii)
piloting activities are essential for the introduction of major changes such as the ones currently undergoing
in the education system in Latvia. Teachers had no previous experience with such piloting approaches
before the project intervention. The pilots facilitated horizontal communication at school level and team
work; and (iv) more information and communication is needed for stakeholders at large.

National Standardized Assessment

The EIP was focused on the improvement of the assessment system for basic education, but the entire
assessment system in Latvia benefited through the capacity created at all levels.

It was noted that in projects covering both standards development and assessment, ideally, the Technical
Assistance in the two areas should be provided by a single agency in order to ensure a smooth
communication among the teams and to avoid any technical problems.

In Latvia, centralized exams are more norm referenced than criteria referenced (criterion-referenced tests
examine students' mastery of the system's educational objectives and as such, require performance
standards to be explicit and widely understood). The performance standards may not have enough
information on how to measure the students' minimum/maximum level of attainment and how that
corresponds to the mark received in the exam. This may be taken into consideration by ISEC specialists in
the future.

The assessment sub-component had only one staff in the PMU and worked directly with ISEC. This was a
good arrangement in terms of project integration in ISEC's activity, but entailed a very loaded work
program for the component head.

Communications Strategy

Lessons learned under the communications sub-component include: (i) the project envisaged supporting the
MES with a communications strategy development. However, due to the highly politicized environment of
ministries, information and communication activities face high political sensitivities; (ii) there is a high
turnover of communications staff in ministries; usually each new minister changes such staff and there is
little institutional memory in this area; (iii) lower level institutions such as the Regional School Boards and
schools are sometimes more responsive to communication initiatives and should have a more significant
role in the process; and (iv) in future projects, a communication function should be under the project
management, instead of under one of the components.

School Evaluation

The project design should have incorporated the activity of this sub-component into the regular activities of
the MES. In the process, more attention should have been paid to getting consensus from stakeholders that
may not necessarily perceive that the proposed changes are to their advantage.

Strengthening Policy Capacity

High staff turnover should be prevented by providing adequate incentives; otherwise project impact may be
affected. Also, easier implementation would have been facilitated by placing the project unit within the
MES structure.




                                                       - 21 -

Project Management and Ownership

In terms of the project institutional arrangements, project management would have been an easier task if the
project had been implemented directly through the MES units and not through a separate unit placed
outside the MES. Also, the sustainability aspects, may have been dealt with differently in a fully integrated
implementation unit. While the successive MES management representatives have constantly declared their
ownership of the project, an integrated implementation approach would have definitely ensured a much
higher ownership level within the MES departments and staff. Any future projects should have fully
integrated implementation arrangements from the onset.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower's ICR Report (submitted by the PMU on September 29, 2004) acknowledges that the EIP
has been fully successful in attaining its targets, both related to the energy efficiency measures as well as to
the education quality reforms. The Report provides a summary of project outputs and outcomes by
component, including lessons learned and sustainability challenges. The Bank support for the preparation
and implementation of this project, is appreciated especially given the valuable feedback to the MES and
PMU, as well as the substantial contributions of the local Bank staff (see Additional Annex 9).

Also, the Minister of Education and Science sent a letter dated December 21, 2004 endorsing the ICR
findings and acknowledging the successful cooperation with the Bank.              The letter also refers to the
continuing efforts of the MES to integrate the project outcomes into the education system of Latvia.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

The team contributing to this ICR processing included:

Ana Maria Jeria, Senior HD Specialist, ECSHD
Mariana Doina Moarcas, Operations Officer, ECSHD
Indra Dedze, Consultant
Elzbieta Sieminska, Sr. Procurement Specialist, ECSPS
Lilita Sparane, Program Assistant, ECCLV
Anna Goodman, Program Assistant, ECSHD




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Yearly plans developed by Municipalities All Municipalities' schools                       Plans prepared for 106 schools.
to increase the cost-effectiveness of the
education process
1.2 Ten percent reduction in the real           10% reduction in the real recurrent cost per   10% reduction in the real recurrent cost per
recurrent cost per student in participating     student in participating schools confirmed.    student in participating schools confirmed.
schools by end-2003
2.1 National content and performance            National content and performance standards 100% developed, tested, fully integrated in
standards in two areas developed for grades in two areas developed for grades 3,6, and 9, the new MES 16 standards package.
3,6, and 9, and implemented by 2004             and implemented by 2004
2.2 Student achievement assessment tools        Student achievement assessment tools           1st pilot 100% completed 2nd pilot 100%
developed for Latvian language (native and      developed for Latvian language (native and     completed; 2004 live exam completed for LL
non-native language) for grade nine and         non-native language) for grade nine and        (non-native)
conducted by 2004: 1st pilot - 2001/02; 2nd     conducted by 2004: 1st pilot - 2001/02; 2nd
pilot - 2002/03 school year                     pilot - 2002/03 school year
2.3 School improvement model developed,         School improvement model developed,            100% completed.
tested, and implemented in all 30 pilot         tested, and implemented in all 30 pilot
schools by 2003                                 schools by 2003
2.4 All stakeholders in the Latvian education   All stakeholders in the Latvian education      100% completed
sector are timely informed regarding project    sector are timely informed regarding project
activities and results in order to gain support activities and results in order to gain support
to improve student performance and elicit       to improve student performance and elicit
feedback.                                       feedback.
2.5 Capacity of MES strengthened in the         Capacity of MES strengthened in the area of 100% completed
area of policy analysis.                        policy analysis.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate   Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                          US$ million  US$ million
A. Education Infrastructure Efficiency
A1. General Schools                                          24.50       27.58            113
A2. Secondary Vocational and Technical Schools                5.94         5.04            85
A3. Pedagogical Institutes                                    2.10         2.01            96
B. Education Quality
B1. National Content Standards                                1.03         0.87            84
B2. National Standardized Assessment Instruments              1.24         0.98            79
B3. Communications Strategy and Public Relations              0.68         0.59            87
B4. School Self-Evaluation Model                              2.61         1.03            39
B5. Strengthen Policy Capacity                                0.72         0.53            74
C. PMU Expenditure                                            0.77         1.13           147

Total Baseline Cost                                          39.59       39.76
                        Total Project Costs                  39.59       39.76
                                        Front-end fee         0.31         0.26         83.90
                  Total Financing Required                   39.90       40.02
Project Cost by Component (in EURO (EUR) million equivalent)*
                                                          Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate   Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                          EUR million  EUR million
A. Education Infrastructure Efficiency
A1. General Schools                                          22.33       29.71            133
A2. Secondary Vocational and Technical Schools                5.42         5.42           100
A3. Pedagogical Institutes                                    1.91         2.17           113
B. Education Quality
B1. National Content Standards                                0.94         0.93            99
B2. National Standardized Assessment Instruments              1.13         1.06            94
B3. Communications Strategy and Public Relations              0.62         0.63           102
B4. School Self-Evaluation Model                              2.38         1.11            47
B5. Strengthen Policy Capacity                                0.65         0.57            87
C. PMU Expenditure                                            0.70         1.22           174




Total Baseline Cost                                          36.08       42.82


                        Total Project Costs                  36.08       42.82

                                        Front-end fee         0.28         0.28           100

                  Total Financing Required



                                                - 24 -

                                                           36.36               43.10
* EUR=0,9282US$, average manually calculated from amount disbursed till 07/15/2004, from WB ICS

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 1
                                            Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB             NCB                  2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                              Other
1. Works                        8.80            19.90          0.00              1.30         30.00
                               (7.50)          (16.90)        (0.00)            (0.00)        (24.40)
2. Goods                        0.50             0.00          1.25              0.03          1.78
                               (0.40)           (0.00)        (0.94)            (0.00)        (1.34)
3. Services                     0.00             0.00          5.30              1.80          7.10
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (5.00)            (0.00)        (5.00)
4. Incremental Recurrent        0.00             0.00          0.00              0.70          0.70
Costs: Salaries/Operating
Costs
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front End Fee                0.00             0.00          0.30              0.00          0.30
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.30)            (0.00)        (0.30)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00             0.00          0.00              0.00          0.00
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                        9.30            19.90          6.85              3.83         39.88
                               (7.90)          (16.90)        (6.24)            (0.00)        (31.04)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 1
                                            Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB             NCB                 2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                              Other
1. Works                        0.61            25.90          0.00             6.81          33.32
                               (0.50)          (24.09)        (0.00)           (9.70)        (34.29)
2. Goods                        0.00            0.32           0.03             0.00          0.35
                               (0.00)           (0.15)        (0.27)           (0.05)        (0.47)
3. Services                     0.00            0.00           6.08             0.00          6.08
                               (0.00)           (0.51)        (3.46)           (1.03)        (5.00)
4. Incremental Recurrent        0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00          0.00
Costs: Salaries/Operating
Costs
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front End Fee                0.00            0.00           0.26             0.00          0.26
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.26)           (0.00)        (0.26)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00          0.00
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                        0.61            26.22          6.37             6.81          40.01
                               (0.50)          (24.75)        (3.99)           (10.78)       (40.02)



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in Euro million equivalent*)



                                             - 25 -

                                                                                   1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                   ICB            NCB                    2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works
                                              (0.56)         (26.10)           (0.00)           (10.28)          (36.94)
   2. Goods
                                              (0.00)          (0.17)           (0.28)           (0.06)            (0.51)
   3. Services
                                              (0.00)          (0.55)           (3.72)           (1.10)            (5.37)
   4. Incremental Recurrent
   Costs: Salaries/Operating
   Costs
                                              (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)




   5. Front End Fee
                                              (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.28)           (0.00)            (0.28)
   6. Miscellaneous
                                              (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total
                                              (0.56)         (26.82)           (4.28)           (11.44)          (43.10)
   *Amounts in Euro calculated and entered manually
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
      the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                        Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank        Govt.       CoF.       Bank     Govt.      CoF.
A. Education
Infrastructure Efficiency
A1. General Schools               18.94        0.14       5.42      16.03         4.80        6.75      84.6    3428.6 124.5
A2. Secondary Vocational           4.52        1.42       0.00       3.83         1.20        0.00      84.7      84.5      0.0
and Technical Schools
A3. Pedagogical Institutes         1.63        0.47       0.00       1.60         0.34        0.06      98.2      72.3      0.0
B. Education Quality
B1. National Content               0.99        0.05       0.00       0.82         0.04        0.00      82.8      80.0      0.0
Standards
B2. National Standardized          0.95        0.29       0.00       0.60         0.38        0.00      63.2     131.0      0.0
Assessment Instruments
B3. Communications                 0.66        0.01       0.00       0.55         0.03        0.00      83.3     300.0      0.0
Strategy and Public
Relations
B4. School Self-Evaluation         1.63        0.18       0.80       0.89         0.11        0.02      54.6      61.1      2.5




                                                           - 26 -

Model
B5. Strengthen Policy       0.70     0.01        0.00     0.52       0.01       0.00     74.3    100.0   0.0
Capacity
C. PMU Expenditure          0.74     0.03        0.00     0.38       0.76       0.00     51.4   2451.6   0.0
Loan-Front-End-Fee          0.31                          0.26                           83.9
TOTAL                      31.06     2.61        6.22    25.49       7.69       6.83     82.1    294.6  109.8

Project Financing by Component (in EURO million equivalent)**
                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
       Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate


                            Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.     Bank    Govt.  CoF.
A. Education
Infrastructure Efficiency
A1. General Schools        17.26     0.13        4.94    17.27       5.17       7.27     100     4072    147
A2. Secondary Vocational    4.12     1.30        0.00     4.13       1.29       0.00     100     100     0.0
and Technical Schools
A3. Pedagogical Institutes  1.48     0.43        0.00     1.72       0.37       0.07     116      87     0.0
B. Education Quality
B1. National Content        0.90     0.04        0.00     0.89       0.05       0.00      99     109     0.0
Standards
B2. National Standardized   0.87     0.26        0.00     0.65       0.41       0.00      75     155     0.0
Assessment Instruments
B3. Communications          0.60     0.01        0.00     0.59       0.04       0.00      98     285     0.0
Strategy and Public
Relations
B4. School Self-Evaluation  1.49     0.17        0.72     0.96       0.12       0.02      65      74      3
Model
B5. Strengthen Policy       0.64     0.01        0.00     0.56       0.01       0.00      87     127     0.0
Capacity

C. PMU Expenditure
                            0.67     0.03        0.00     0.40       0.81       0.00      60     2810    0.0

Loan-Front-End-Fee          0.28                         0.28                            100
TOTAL                      28.32     2.38       5.66     27.46       8.28       7.36      97     348     130

   ** EUR=0,9282US$, average calculated manually from amount disbursed until July 15, 2004, from WB
   ICS.




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Project design included the economic analysis of cost-effectiveness for the Energy Efficiency
Component. Its summary in the PAD indicates the economic rate of return was expected to exceed 12
percent and the payback period to be less than 10 years.

A KPI of a minimum 10 percent reduction of the real recurrent cost per student in participating schools by
end 2003 was set to monitor the achievement of the Component's objective to increase the cost
effectiveness through better management of the thermal energy consumption.

The Borrower prepared an analysis of the economic results of the Project. This analysis is based on the
data reported by participating schools and its methodology considers only the energy efficiency benefits
with no other in-school and out-of-school benefits. Therefore, the Borrower adjusted the investment cost for
its relevancy to energy efficiency. The Borrower also adjusted the data to consider the weather conditions,
which were different in the years of comparison, as well as to consider improving the temperature comfort
to the minimum acceptable level.

The non-measurable benefits of the school rehabilitation, which were not quantified for the analysis,
include area reconfiguration to optimize space use, and improvements of safety and hygienic conditions.
Together with improving the temperature comfort in school buildings, all these benefits contribute to
improving learning quality. The data used for the analysis may have been distorted for other reasons. Such
reasons include, for example: not considering the cost of wood used for heating, but actually obtained by
schools for free and not recorded; and avoiding environmental costs or cost shift between the calendar year
used as a unit period for the analysis, and the school year, actually relevant for costs reporting by schools.

The target set for the KPI of 10 percent reduction of the real recurrent cost per student in participating
schools by end 2003 was achieved at much higher value, despite of the decreasing number of students. As a
result, schools gained additional funds through cost savings; such funds are being reinvested, to further
improve learning quality. The results of the analysis show that NPV and the payback period have not been
achieved as expected. However, given the difficulty with obtaining the precise data and estimating all
benefits, such results have to be considered with caution. The methodology for selection of the school
rehabilitation measures has to be carefully analyzed for future projects undertaken by the Borrower. The
analysis prepared based on this Project interventions provide important conclusions with regard to
prioritizing the energy efficiency measures and planning the school rehabilitation investments. Detailed
tables presenting the achieved results as calculated by the Borrower for project participating schools under
the Energy Efficiency Component are available in the project files.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/06/1997                4    TEAM LEADER & HUMAN
                                             RESOURCES ECONOMIST (1);
                                             VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL
                                             EDUCATOR (1); EDUCATION
                                             REFORM EXPERT (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1)
              05/02/1998                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SECTOR
                                             LEADER (1); EDUCATORS (2);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/07/1998                3    ECONOMIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              12/08/1999                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             PTL (1)
              05/02/2000                1    PTL (1)                          S               S
              05/04/2001                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (2); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              11/30/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS              S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION/PROCUR
                                             E (1); PROJECTS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              10/11/2002                5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS              S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); PROJECTS ASSISTANT
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              02/21/2003                6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS              S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); SR. FIN. MANAGEMENT
                                             SP (1); PROJECTS ASSISTANT
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              07/11/2003                5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS              S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1);



                                              - 29 -

                                            PROJECTS ASSISTANT (1)


 ICR
               07/12/2004             7     COUNTRY MANAGER
                                            (1); TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               70                          245
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    42                          146
  Supervision                            105                           366
  ICR                                      14                           50
  Total                                  231                           807




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.     MES PMU Final Project Evaluation Report, June 2004
2.     Technical Assistance Progress Reports, 2002, 2003, 2004
3.     Technical Assistance Final Reports, 2004
4.     Evaluation of the Performance of the Project for the Development of the Educational System: A
       Report on the Survey of Persons Involved in the Educational System, Market and Public Opinion
       Research Centre "skds", June 2004
5.     Other documents produced during the project implementation:

      l Portfolio of Teacher Support Materials on implementation of standards, teaching learning
           process, assessment and evaluation, planning, etc.,
      l Pilot Manual on conducting standard piloting
      l Handbook for Item Writers and Test Constructors
      l Understanding Test Statistics (a handbook for teachers and testers)
      l Year 9 Latvian Language Examination (a handbook for teachers, assessors and
           interlocutors)
      l School Self-Evaluation and Development Planning Handbook
      l School External Evaluation Handbook
      l Evaluation Level Descriptors
      l Education Quality and Effectiveness in Latvia: Study Reports
      l Brochures for parents and students of primary school, on content of education, on education
           opportunities after Grade 9, on education reform
      l Cost Benefit Analysis of School Renovation in Latvia
      l Cost Effectiveness Analyses of Energy Efficiency Improvements, Latvia Education
           Improvement Project

6.     Education Quality and Effectiveness in Latvia: Research Reports. Ministry of Education and
Science, Education Improvement Project, 2004.
7.     Investments for the Future: 2000-2004. Ministry of Education and Science, Education
Improvement Project, 2004.




                                                 - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Remaining Education Reform Agenda in Latvia

This annex is devoted to the education sector agenda in Latvia which remains to be addressed beyond the
targets of this project.

According to the "State Strategy for Investments in Education and Science 2004- 2008" (Directive Nr 61,
approved by MES on 06.02.2003), the main MES directions for the next five years are focused on: (i) the
development of the infrastructure of general and vocational educational establishments; (ii) higher
education and research; and (iii) sports development.

In this respect, current MES initiatives include. (a) the proposed "Education and Science Program of
Investments 2005-2009" (July 2004), providing a plan of activities for renovation, building and improving
energy efficiency; the total amount MES would need for these activities is 67 973 146 LVL for year 2005.
This would include 246 projects out of which about 37 projects could address energy efficiency needs (total
amount of 6 615 574 LVL). In order to have schools included in this Program of Investment, among other
things, the local government should ensure the co-financing of 20 percent of total expenses; and (b) the
identification of priorities for the State Strategy on higher education and research including: efficient use of
energy resources and rehabilitation of higher education institutions; development of relevant projects; use
of social and economical criteria in higher education. Based on the proposed Program of Investments
2005-2009, MES has planned two renovation projects in 2005 for higher education institutions for a total
amount of 395,420 LVL. Proposed funds allocations are subject to government approval.

The European Union Structural Funds are now available to Latvia. During the next four years Latvia has
the opportunity to receive 45,2 million LVL out of            which 61 percent would be offered for open
competition and the remaining 39 percent would be devoted to five National Programs (LETA 02.09.2004
Information from the Ministry of Education and Science). For the Education Sector these funds would
cover mostly vocational education, higher education needs of technical and natural sciences, life long
learning, and support for doctoral and postdoctoral studies (MES. Information on EU structural funds
http://www.izm.lv/default.aspx?tabID=18&id=510 ).

Main recommendations for the remaining education sector agenda:

·        The budget development still suffers from elements of the Soviet central planning system, which
         was focused on one-year budget planning without medium-term planning and commitment of
         funds. Current financing policies are based on historic costs leading to inefficient allocations of
         public resources. In order to ensure a successful policy making process, it is important to create a
         system which would distribute public resources according to strategic priorities and would ensure
         their effective use. It is particularly important to plan the state budget taking into account the
         availability of EU Structural funds. It is necessary to strengthen the administrative capacity to be
         able to meet EU commitments and develop medium and long term plans.
·        The implementation of the new standards would require new textbooks, teaching materials and
         trained teachers. MES is currently planning in-service teacher training activities, but the number
         of teachers covered from the state budget is limited due to limited resources. More in-service
         teacher training needs to be provided to facilitate the implementation of the new standards.
·        More broadly, the teachers in Latvia need special attention. It is essential to: (i) improve teacher
         pre-service training allowing qualifications in more than one subject which would address the
         current shortage of teachers in specific subjects; (ii) provide the necessary in-service teacher
         training given the current reform initiatives; and (iii) develop a salary system ensuring competitive
         salaries for teachers.



                                                      - 34 -

·       The development of new textbooks usually includes the teacher's handbooks. The content of these
        handbooks needs to be improved to provide a better description of the theories applied or the
        methods to be used in the classroom. At this stage it is necessary to train potential authors and
        publishing companies on how to prepare high quality textbooks and teaching materials reflecting
        the new standards and assessment tools.
·       Latvia is experiencing an increase in drop-outs before completion of basic education. It is
        necessary to provide flexible second chance education options seeking to encourage drop-outs to
        complete studies.
·       In the context of improved education services, it is important to establish a school system in which
        the choice of the school would not depend largely on the ethnic background and the native language
        of the students, but on the education model offered by a particular school.
·       In Latvia the number of students entering higher education is growing fast. Between 1989 and
        2000 the proportion of the age cohort enrolled in higher education increased from 15 to 26 percent.
        The number of public higher education institutions doubled from 10 to 20. Fourteen new private
        higher education institutions have been established. Higher education funding now originates from
        student tuition fees in both public and private institutions. However, this increase was not matched
        by a change in higher education infrastructure. Classroom and laboratory space remains limited.
        Use of technology is still infrequent. By international standards, library search engines are
        primitive and basic materials are often outdated. Therefore the concern is about the quality of
        higher education. Higher education expenditures per student in Western Europe (US$8,252) are
        more than 10 times the expenditure per student in Latvia (440 Lats or US$730).

Some of the above mentioned issues were addressed in a proposed second Bank-supported education
project.  Project proposals were mainly focused on school optimization, teacher training and higher
education interventions. A PHRD Grant was made available for the preparation of the project. However,
the project was dropped by the Government and these needs are expected to be covered in the future from
other resources.




                                                    - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report

  (submitted to the Bank by the PMU on September 29, 2004)

  Latvia ­ Education Improvement Project
  (Loan Number 44630 LV)

  Borrower's Report

  In 1999, the Government of Latvia signed a loan agreement with the World Bank (WB) in order to
  implement a multi-year, multi-faceted Education Improvement Project (hereafter, the EIP) with the goal
  to increase capacity within the education sector for continuous improvement of education outcomes by
  strengthening the management of both resource inputs and learning process (World Bank (1999).
  Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$31.1 million equivalent to the
  Republic of Latvia for an Education Improvement Project, April 12, 1999, No 19133LV). The general
  responsibility for management of the EIP implementation was assigned to the Ministry of Education
  and Science of the Republic of Latvia (hereafter, the MES).

  The Assessment of the Project's Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operations

  The Project's specific development objectives were:
  ·   to improve energy efficiency and space utilization of educational facilities through strengthening
      capacity to identify and correct inefficiencies in the use of resources and
  ·   to build and strengthen institutional management capacity to assess and promote quality learning
      through building capacity to strengthen the learning process.

  The Project had been designed to work in two significant areas and consisted of two major components,
  the Infrastructure Efficiency Component and the Education Quality Component. The Project
  Management Component (1,146 million EUR) ensured that the Project was implemented in a timely
  fashion and achieved all its objectives.

  To improve the utilised capacity and consummation of premises, to ensure safety measures, to provide
  accident-free exploitation of the buildings, and to decrease recurrent expenditures, the Cost Efficiency
  Component carried out energy-efficiency increase measures and emergency repairs in 127 schools (112
  general educational establishments, 11 vocational educational establishments and 4 higher educational
  establishments, including 3 teacher training institutions). The total expenditure of the Component
  comprised 37,2 million EUR The numbers are valid as of July 1, 2004.. The Project contribution to the
  school renovation was 23,035 million EUR, the national budget contribution was 6,835 million EUR,
  and local governments contributed 7,337 million EUR. Benefiting municipalities were required to use
  the savings in recurrent costs to increase spending for education.

  As a result of the cost-effectiveness activities, cost savings in the renovated schools were 25- 27
  percent on average with some schools having savings up to 70 percent; the costs per student have been
  reduced by 21 percent on average.

  The Education Quality Component was designed to enhance the effectiveness of the administration of
  the system of education for a continuous increase in the quality of education through developing
  national subject standards, establishing a system of evaluation of the student assessment and creating a



                                                   - 36 -

school evaluation and development model. The Education Quality Component consisted of the five
subcomponents:

1. The Subject Standards Subcomponent (0,925 million EUR) developed subject standards and
teaching learning programs in Social Sciences, Latvian as native and Latvian as a second language for
basic education (Grades 1 ­ 9) based on the National Standards of Compulsory Education.

2. The Student Assessment Sub-component (1,053 million. EUR) contributed to the development of a
secure and reliable examination for Grade 9 in Latvian both as native and second language; the
production of reliable analytical data that could be used for the development and improvement of
subject standards, curricula and teaching materials, and to the improvement of the assessment system
of student achievement for basic school.

3. The School Evaluation Sub-component (1,096 million EUR) developed a School Self-Evaluation
model and contributed to the improvement of the system of school accreditation by developing mutually
aligned internal and external performance evaluation methodologies.

4. The Communications Sub-component (0,57 million EUR) strengthened the communication
function of the MES by developing a communication strategy that would embrace different
stakeholders of education and comply with the general guidelines of Latvian educational policies and
interests of the general public.

5. The Policy Analysis Capacity Building Sub-component (0,508 million EUR) contributed to the
improvement of the analytical skills that had not been in place in the MES by providing extensive
professional development program, conducted three policy studies; assessed the existing Education
Management Information System (EMIS) and developed a five-year strategic plan for the establishment
of an effective and secure EMIS.

The Technical Assistance to the Education Quality Component has been provided by the British
Council (UK) on standard development, the Scottish Qualifications Authority (UK) on student
assessment and school performance evaluation, SPAN Consultants (Holland) on communication
strategy and the Harvard Graduate School of Education, International education Group (USA) on
policy analysis and EMIS.

All Subcomponents' implementation has been accompanied by extensive capacity building activities,
such as trainings, seminars and study visits, for various target audiences. Training has been provided to
31 standards development specialists, 23 MES and ISEC subjects' specialists, 518 teachers, 48 school
administrators on the issues of subject standards development and implementation; to 10 item writers,
10 ISEC examination specialists, 20 assessment specialists, 25 ISEC curriculum and teacher training
specialists, 315 teachers on the issues related to examination development, administration and
evaluation; to 204 education specialists on school external evaluation. School board specialists have
been trained in exam administration and the use of school self-evaluation model for school development
planning. School Boards heads participated in seminars on use of exam data for school improvement,
on information and communication needs of schools and school boards, on the internal and external
evaluation of school performance and on the use of data and information for policy planning.




                                                 - 37 -

Specifically, the MES institutional capacity benefited from the contribution of two Subcomponents the
activities of which targeted directly at the MES. The Communication Strategy Subcomponent
supported staff development of the MES Press Unit and senior management on the use of
communication for implementing reforms and planning communication. The Policy Analysis Capacity
Building Subcomponent provided training to the Education Policy Department and other appropriate
MES departments and ISEC staff as well as to MES senior management on education policy
framework, policy analysis and planning, change management, strategic planning.

To ensure sustainability of its activities, the Project produced a substantial amount of support materials
for further use at local school sites, regional school boards, in the MES and ISEC and by trained
experts:

-    Portfolio of Teacher Support Materials on implementation of standards, teaching learning process,
assessment and evaluation, planning, etc.,
-    Pilot Manual on conducting standard piloting,
-    Handbook for Item Writers and Test Constructors,
-    Understanding Test Statistics (a handbook for teachers and testers),
-    Year 9 Latvian Language Examination (a handbook for teachers, assessors and interlocutors),
-    School Self-Evaluation and Development Planning Handbook,
-    School External Evaluation Handbook,
-    Evaluation Level Descriptors,
-    Education Quality and Effectiveness in Latvia: Study Reports,
-    Brochures for parents and students of primary school, on content of education, on education
opportunities after Grade 9, on education reform.

The Government's Performance During the Project Implementation

On March 20, 1998, the Government established an Inter-ministerial Working Group to identify and
approve the main aims and objectives of the project, and this Working Group prepared Project
documents. Besides the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of
Agriculture,     the Ministry of Transport, and the Ministry of Welfare               govern educational
establishments in Latvia; so, representatives of these ministries and of the Association of Municipalities
jointly identified the priorities of the education system and outlined main areas for the EIP to introduce
change and improvement. The preparation activities of the Working group and the MES received a
significant support from WB. The assistance provided by the WB consultants was especially important
as it had been the first project of a kind and scope within the system of education of Latvia.

During the Project implementation, the Government's support has been critical, especially, when the
implementation was jeopardized due to the exchange rate fluctuations of the euro. Originally, the
amount of loan was calculated according to the rate of EUR 1 = USD 1.1 = LVL 0.66. During the
period of Project implementation in 2000 and 2001 the euro experienced a decrease in exchange rates
against USD and LVL, when EUR 1 = LVL 0.53. This resulted in a deficit of about LVL 3.3 million
towards end of 2001, presenting a risk to the implementation of renovation works to the extent planned
of local government educational establishments included in the EIP Stage 3. The situation was resolved
when the Government assigned a loan of LVL 3.3 million to local governments under the same
conditions as the IBRD Loan. This made it possible to carry out the project activities at the planned
extent and even to exceed it.




                                                  - 38 -

The Project Director's functions were performed by MES State Secretary. Being accountable for
managing the whole education system, a State Secretary could, therefore, be in a better position to see
the place and role of the EIP within the system's framework, as well as to coordinate and manage the
EIP implementation process. The effort put into the implementation of the Project would have been
more sustainable, had it not been for frequent change of the MES senior management: in the course of
the EIP implementation there had been six governments and ministers, and four Project Directors.

Although each government in its declaration put different accents for the education sector (in the
process of government changes the main emphasis shifted from the renovation and energy efficiency
activities of education institutions to development of higher education, vocational education and
continuing education), the strategic management of this project was ensured by the MES established
Steering Committee (SC), which had been the main decision making body in the course of the EIP
implementation. The SC made all the required changes and amendments to the envisaged activities and
approved progress reports, annual budget, procurement plans, and action plans. The SC was lead by
the Minister of Education and Science, who held the political responsibility for the implementation of
the EIP.

In the spring of 2003, after the change of the Government, the funds for the Project were not assigned
when planning the national budget for 2003, which put the continuation of the Project at risk. Thanks
to the active work of the MES staff and the PMU, a compromise solution had been achieved, but led to
the fact that some activities of the EIP had been revised and the financing had been allocated at a
smaller amount than originally planned. As a result, a number of activities had not been carried out (for
example, study visits).

All objectives of the Project have been achieved and the overall contribution of its activities to the
education reform in Latvia has been substantial.

The Performance of the Bank during the Project's Implementation

The MES and the PMU received a substantial support from the WB in the course of project
implementation. The EIP has been in the focus WB specialists' attention ­ during the missions, the WB
specialists provided valuable and detailed feedback to the MES and PMU staff on the progress of the
Project. The staff of the regional office helped in all the issues related to the project implementation.

The Utilization of Funds for the Interest of Target Beneficiaries

The financing, as envisaged in the Project documents, has been used in accordance with the goals set
and in the interests of the target beneficiaries. The number of educational establishments to be
renovated was exceeded, 116 planned and 127 renovated, and the amount of investments implemented
exceeded what was planned.

During of the Project implementation period from August 1999 till September 2004, the EIP spent for
the implementation of Project activities LVL 25.54 million or EUR 42.79 million (105 percent to the
total amount planned), including the disbursement from IBRD Loan LVL 27.27 millions EUR (96
percent of total Loan amount).

The project sources of funds are the following:

    Sources of Funds          Amount (million, LVL)             Amount (million, EUR)
   IBRD Funds                          15.779                            27.273
 Government of Latvia                   5.348                             8.223

                                                 - 39 -

  National                           4.415                           7.362
  Municipalities
   KOPA                             25.542                          42.858

It was planned that 78 percent of the project costs would be covered by the WB loan (28.290 million
EUR), 7 percent by state, and 15 percent by local governments. Due to the EUR currency fluctuation
during the implementation period (at the time of preparation of the Project Appraisal Document in
1999, 1EUR equalled 0.66 LVL, but in June 2000 - 2002 1EUR equalled 0.53 to 0.57LVL), the
project loss has been about LVL 3 million -15 percent of the IBRD Loan Amount.

The Government of the Republic of Latvia allocated additional LVL 3.3 million loan to the local
governments participating in the Infrastructure Efficiency Component. At the end of the Project, the
IBRD part in the total amount of funds was 63% and the national part was 37 percent.

The table below summarizes the information about the distribution of expenditures by the Project
activities.

             Project Component                Component     Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate*      Appraisal
                                                          (million, LVL) (million, LVL)

A. Education Infrastructure Efficiency            A           19.845         21.975          111%
A1 General Schools                                A1          14.942         17.397          116%
A2 Secondary Vocational and Technical             A2          3.625          3.315            91%
Schools
A3 Pedagogical Institutes                         A3          1.278          1.263            99%
B. Education Quality                              B            3.83          2.662           70%
B1 Subject Standards                              B1           0.63          0.612            97%
B2 Student Assessment                             B2          0.758          0.628            83%
B3 Communications Strategy                        B3          0.412          0.382            93%
B4 School Self-Evaluation Model                   B4          1.591          0.665            42%
B5 Policy Analysis Capacity Building              B5          0.439          0.375            85%
C. PMU                                            C           0.468          0.752           161%
Loan-Front-End Fee                                            0.188          0.186           99%
TOTAL Project Expenditure                                     24.331         25.575          105%

The expenditures of the Infrastructure Efficiency Component comprise 87 percent, of the Education
Quality Component - 9 percent, of the Project Management Component ­ 3 percent, and the
Loan-Front-End Fee comprised 1 percent of the Project expenditure.

Benefits from the Project

The EIP constitutes the largest and the most purposeful financial investment in the buildings of
educational establishments after the restoration of national independence in Latvia, and the greatest
attempt of thermal insulation of public buildings in this country. The system of education in Latvia
received an investment of LVL 35 million and the resulting reinvestment is going to bring additional



                                              - 40 -

LVL 13 million in the following years. In addition, improved learning environment, and reduction of
maintenance costs, the project implementation has resulted in experience gained and methods developed
for further renovation and energy efficiency measures in Latvian educational establishments.

As a result of the activities of the Project, the ability of the local governments to plan, to attract
financing, organize and successfully manage renovation works of a similar nature has improved. The
heads of local governments and schools have been acquainted with and have practically passed every
stage of investment project implementation, which is a precondition for successful acquisition of further
financial resources. The Project has actually triggered optimization of the network of educational
establishments and changed the opinions and way of thinking of a number of local government experts.

The sub-components teams of the Education Quality Component have produced the following outputs:
new standards for grade 1-9 for Social Sciences, Latvian language for native and non-native speakers,
support materials for the implementation of new curriculum standards, assessment model for grade 9
Latvian Language, communications strategy, school evaluation system and Education Management
Information System strategic plan

The sub-component working groups have organized seminars to different audiences to improve their
capacity. Depending on each of the Sub-component's specific tasks, training was given to MES units,
Regional School Board (RSB) specialists, school teams involved in the project, school heads, assistant
principals and school subject teachers, and local government agents. The topics of the seminars were
consistent with the work objectives of the Sub-component. Questionnaires of seminar evaluation
indicate that the work of the seminars was valued.

The Project demonstrated the application of modern management approach to the implementation of
change in the education system as a comprehensive situation analysis and needs assessment preceded
planning and implementation of activities, monitoring and evaluation, including piloting, was used for
improving the final outputs. A participatory approach has been used in developing the Project's
outputs, for example, methodologies, subject standards, examination models, strategies, etc.
Participation of a wide spectrum of education specialists, for example, teachers, school principals and
regional school board representatives in the development of materials was inherent in the process as
was their role in the informal public awareness campaign for building understanding and support for
change and improvement. Various channels were used to raise public awareness on the essence and
process of changes to be introduced in the education system as a result of the Project.

As a result of the effective implementation of the Project, the mission, roles and functions of the
Ministry of Education and Science, regional school boards and local school administrators have been
defined more clearly: the Ministry is to maintain and strengthen its responsibility for the development
and enforcement of national content and performance standards, assessing student achievement,
analyzing the results and report to the major education stakeholders on the system's performance;
regional school boards should become leading coordinators and planners and hold themselves
accountable for education improvement, identifying needs for renovation, optimization, analyzing
results of assessments; local schools should concentrate efforts on improving the quality of education
services they provide. During and due to the Project implementation, the language of educational
discourse has changed significantly from top to bottom and the Project has provided education
managers and specialists with tools for further implementation and monitoring of the education reform,
most of the mandates and institutional arrangements for ensuring the sustainability of the Project's
outcomes are already in place at all levels of the education system management and most staff members
had received appropriate training.


                                                 - 41 -

- 42 -

