Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14410
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2984-AR)
APRIL 28, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Name of Currency   Peso (P/)
Appraisal Year     US$1 = P/650
At 9/15/94         US$1 = P/1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Square meter (m2) = 10.76 square feet (ft.2)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANMAT           National Administration of Drugs, Foodstuffs and Medical Technology
ANSSAL          Social Security Health Care Financing Administration
APH             Autonomous public hospital
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
INAC            Instituto Nacional de Acci6n Cooperativa
INDEC           National Institute of Statistics and Census
MCHN            Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition project
MinEc           Ministry of Economy and Public Work
MinEd           Ministry of Education
MIS             Management information system
MSAS            Ministry of Health and Social Action (Welfare)
NPD             National Project Director
OS              Social Security Health Care Funds (Obras Sociales)
PAHO            Pan American Health Organization
PCU             Project Coordinating Unit
PRONATASS    Programa Nacional de Asistencia T&enica a los Sectores Sociales
SAIJ            Computerized Legal Information System
SSMTAL          Social Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (Project)
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2984-AR)
Table of Contents
Preface ................................................. iii
Evaluation Summary ........................................ iv
A. Project Objectives ................................... iv
B. Implementation Experience and Results ...................... iv
C. Findings and Lessons Learned ........................... vii
PART I: PROJECT OBJECTIVES, IMPLEMENTATION, OUTCOME
AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Project Objectives ..................................    1
B. Project Implementation ...............................    5
C. Assessment of Project Impact ...........................  12
D. Project Sustainability  ................................  15
E. Bank Performance ..................................  15
F. Borrower Performance  ...............................  16
G. Summary of Lessons Learned ...........................  17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table IA: Assessments Through Time  ...... ..                  ...........  18
Table IB: Consolidated Assessments  ....... ..                 ...........   18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans          ...........         ..............   19
Table 3: Project Timetable  ............                 ..............  19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  . ..   19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ....            .......  20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations  ......             ........  21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ........ ..              ...........  21
Table 8A: Project Costs  .............                 ...............  22
Table 8B: Project Financing          ...........         ..............  22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits  ...... ..                ...........  22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants  ....... ..                ...........  23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .. ....  24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)  ....             ......  24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions  ....... ..                 ...........  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
APPENDIXES
1. ICR Mission Aide Memoire                                     pp. 26 - 28
2. The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                       pp. 29 - 38
3. Original Project Objectives                                  pp. 39 - 47
WORKING PAPERS
(available in the Project files)
A. Political, Macroeconomic and Social Sector Background
B. Performance
Addendum 1 - Financing Allocations
Addendum 2 - Detailed Expenditures
Addendum 3 - Fund Balances at the end of the Project
Addendum 4 - Annual Distribution of Consultants Hired under the Project
C. Organization and Management
Addendum 1 - Implementation Strategy
Addendum 2 - Implementation Issues
Addendum 3 - Amendment to Loan Agreement
D. The Bank's Role
E. Internal and External Evaluation Reports of Individual Sub-projects
F. List of Recipients of Project Documents
G. Other Significant Information



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2984-AR)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Social Sector
Management Technical Assistance Project, for which Loan 2984-AR in the amount of
US$28 million was approved in July 1988 and became effective on May 23, 1989. On
July 31, 1994 disbursements amounted to US$27.4 million, or 98% of loan proceeds.
Closing date extensions from the original target date of June 30, 1992 first to December
31, 1993, and then to June 30, 1994, were justified on grounds of performance, benefits
to be derived from operationalizing newly introduced policies, completing tasks
underway, providing more focused analyses, and financing the preparation of two
investment projects. The last disbursement took place on July 19,1994.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Jose Andreu (consultant), and was reviewed by
Evangeline Javier/Leain-Hong Ding (Task Managers, LAI HR), Alain Colliou (Chief,
LA1HR), and Orville Grimes (Projects Adviser, LA1). The Borrower provided its own
performance evaluation, which is contained in an Appendix 2.
3.    Preparation of this ICR was begun on August 1, 1994. The ICR is based on
materials in the Project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
mainly by arranging for the internal and external evaluations of sub-projects, and by
commenting on this draft report. Before and during the ICR field mission of August 29-
September 9, 1994, discussions were carried out with Government officials, UNDP, the
PCU, Bank staff, and consultants who worked on the Project.
4.    The Project was carried out in conjunction with a Japanese Grant which has
financed activities in support of the Project's social sector goals. The Grant's closing
date has been extended to close on June 30, 1995.






Evaluation Summary
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2984-AR)
ARGENTINA
A. Project Objectives
1.    Project objectives encompassed a singularly wide variety of general and specific
policy actions and institutional strengthening measures in twelve programmatic areas:
health care, welfare for disadvantaged groups, health administration, education, social
security, labor, justice, national and provincial statistics and censuses, management
information, macroeconomic management and poverty alleviation. These included
establishing new economic policy, manpower and control units; selecting criteria and
drafting norms and regulations; introducing decentralized management and financing;
management training programs and incentive schemes; targeting and socioeconomic
models; and designing and starting off cost recovery, budgeting, management
information, monitoring and expenditure review systems.
2.    The Project's (SSMTAL) original ambitious goals and complex design reflected
the urgency attached by both the Government and the Bank to avoiding an impending
political, social and economic crisis by speedily bringing about major improvements in
equity, efficiency and financial viability of the social sectors. The SSMTAL aimed at
radical improvements through new laws and a leaner, more responsive bureaucracy.
3.    In the course of implementation, and in response to serious political,
administrative and technical constraints which made the Project unwieldy, objectives were
consolidated, orders of priority established, the political will mustered to advance the key
elements of the reform agenda, and follow-up action taken to design and operationalize
key pieces of legislation and administrative regulations.
B. Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Original Flaws. The project scope was excessively ambitious. Originally, it
consisted of more than 600 individual analytical tasks. Five ministries, twelve
secretariats, and one semi-autonomous agency participated as executing agencies. The
Ministry of Economy (MinEc) assumed passive (given its lack of power vis a vis the
executing agencies) overall coordination.
5.    From the beginning, SSMTAL implementation suffered from political instability,
as well as design and administrative weaknesses. During the first year after effectiveness
(in FY90), execution came to a standstill as a result of the collapse of the Alfonsin
administration. Subsequently, the Menem administration could hardly be blamed for
initially neglecting the Project. The present government had to take charge unexpectedly,



v
a full six months ahead of the constitutionally mandated transfer of power and
simultaneously improvise day-to-day in handling an economy and a public sector in
crisis. Project design weaknesses included the lack of defined and agreed inter-sectoral
and intra-sectorial priorities, unfocused and poorly coordinated work programs, and lack
of transparency and accountability. Project administrative weaknesses included: (a) in
the absence of a national social sector planning and coordinating agency, forcing these
roles onto the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), a weak, artificial creation facing difficult
political conditions; (b) high turnover in all participating agencies, especially in the first
three years of implementation, which included: six ministers of labor and social security,
seven secretaries of labor and seven secretaries of social security; seven ministers and
seven secretaries of justice; five ministers and six secretaries of education; nine ministers
of health, nine secretaries of health and 11 secretaries of social action (welfare); three
directors of the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INDEC); seven ministers of
economy and 13 national project directors (NPD); (c) the excessive concentration of
powers and responsibilities in the NPD (a high official with many more important duties)
combined with a weak PCU; and (d) in 1989-1990, PCU's and executing agencies' lack
of control of health and education consultants' selection, terms of reference, timing,
quality and relevance of outputs. Canceling the loan would have been amply justified in
those early stages.
6.    Fortunately, the new Administration and the Bank continued to support the
Project because of its potential importance. Economic stabilization and growth, the
introduction of economic and public sector reforms at the macro level, stronger
leadership at the MinEc and executing agencies, and a strengthened PCU substantially
improved performance from early 1991 to Project Completion.
7.    Results. The Project succeeded in its major policy and development objectives
well beyond original expectations. More modest but still significant institutional goals in
the health and education areas were met. Particularly important was the recovery
experienced by the health sub-project in 1992-94.
8.    The Project's substantial analytical. policy and legal framework. and institutional
contributions include: (a) social security: i. providing the analytical basis for an already
enacted and operational, radically new and financially self-sustaining national pension
regime (with a potential coverage of 2.5 million or one half the total number of
contributors), which creates a system based on individual retirement savings accounts to
be managed by specialized private institutions; ii. a new dues collection system which
helped increase annual pension contributions from US$4.8 billion to more than US$10.8
billion annually (in real terms) from 1991 to 1994; and iii. an improved benefits
distribution system which made possible the identification of a US$11.8 billion debt to
pensioners and its reduction by US$8.8 billion from 1991 to 1994, as well as the timely
distribution of monthly pension checks; (b) labor: the analytical base for the already-
enacted national labor law and complementary collective bargaining and productivity
legislation in support of the modernization and privatization of the economy, which have
improved the flexibility of hiring and firing workers, expanded partial and fixed term
employment, and led to major increases in emergency employment and unemployment
insurance; (c) social sector resource use: i. a national review of sources and uses of



vi
public social expenditures; and ii. a new system for program budgeting for the social
sectors (later extended to cover the economic sectors and five provinces) under MinEc
sponsorship; (d) health care: i. legislation enabling public hospitals to gain greater
management autonomy, compete for patients and collect revenues from the insured; ii.
legislation establishing free production, marketing and pricing of drugs, and the
production of generic drugs; iii. regulations introducing improved quality controls of
foodstuffs and drugs; iv. the establishment of an agency in charge of implementing the
above legislation; v. rules and agreements with faculties of medicine enhancing the role
of family physicians and nurses, the pillars of basic health care; vi. analytical support for
the Presidential Decree opening the door to competition among insurance schemes
operated by labor unions; and vii. financing and overall review of preparation of the
Bank-assisted Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition project (MCHN, Loan 3463-AR,
the first national health care investment project in the country); (e) education: providing
the analytical bases for strengthening and decentralizing to the provinces the secondary
education system and financing the preparation of the first (for the country) education
investment project in support of those policies; and (f) justice: the development of a
computerized system for collecting, collating, disseminating and providing feedback of
essential information in the areas of litigation, laws, decrees, and regulations affecting the
administration of justice.
9.    Also valuable are the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INDEC) sub-
project's contributions in designing and introducing standardized provincial health and
education statistics systems in seven of the 24 provinces, as well as incorporating
welfare, health and education components in the periodic household survey in major
population centers to better ascertain the extent and depth of poverty.
10.   Impact and Sustainability. Under the impetus of major reforms being carried
out by the present Administration, the SSMTAL's long-term impact should be substantial
and long-lasting. The social security sub-project's impact is already large: it has helped
eliminate current annual deficits running into the billions of dollars, and reduced debt to
pensioners to one-fourth its original size. The new labor laws are permitting free labor
negotiations: over 14,000 negotiation centers exist today (as opposed to the 400 existing
in 1990), and are tying salaries to productivity. The review of social public expenditures
provides the basis for major readjustments in social programs, while program budgeting
has become an essential tool of fiscal discipline. Work on drug marketing and food/drug
quality controls is beginning to have an impact on prices and enhanced health promotion
throughout the country, while the MCHN project is strengthening basic health care and
rationalizing services. Secondary schools have been decentralized with a sound
budgetary and analytical basis, and will be supported by the already approved investment
project. The justice informatics system should immeasurably improve efficiency and
transparency in the legal area, which was so disorganized that it became an obstacle to
the modernization of society. Much of the impact of individual sub-projects will be felt
over the medium term and require assessment in three to five years. Sustainability is
enhanced by several factors: i. the support of all political parties to the thrust of
reforms; ii. the fact that many Project consultants became high Government officials in
charge of implementing their own recommendations, as was the case for MinEc's vice-
minister and secretary for economic planning, the social security secretary, the secretary



vii
of labor, the undersecretary of education, and a large number of national and provincial
officials at intermediate and working levels; and iii. enhanced awareness of the need for
managing the social sectors more efficiently.
11.   The Project's impact will be minimal in the area of social welfare, which suffered
more than any other sub-project from a policy void and the high management and staff
turnover. Lack of success in developing the health financing analytical base will delay
overall sector reform efforts. The failure to develop standard inter-agency management
information systems may create future problems.
12.   The preparation of the Greater Buenos Aires health reform project was also
unsuccessful and had to be stopped. The ambitious reform proposal was premature in
view of the lack of support of the national health authorities, the major complicating
factor of the transfer of national hospitals to the city of Buenos Aires, and the lack of
coordination between city and provincial authorities. Weak Bank follow-up undercut its
earlier recognition of the problems. However, the studies carried out for the city
component are being used to target the poor, rationalize hospital use, integrate hospital
and ambulatory services by geographic areas and set off important cost control initiatives.
A project involving more modest reforms and a larger share of studies is now being
prepared with PPF funds.
13.   On balance, the SSMTAL's positive contributions far outweigh its few
disappointments. In a way, the SSMTAL provided a reform-minded Administration with
a ready-made instrument for defining priorities and providing the analytical base for
major pieces of legislation and institutional change which are improving resource use in
critical areas. The revenue increases and cost savings derived from implementing the
SSMTAL sub-projects in the areas of social security, labor and program budgeting alone
have already paid for the cost of the Project many times over.
C. Findings and Lessons Learned
14.   The Project was seriously flawed from its inception. It was excessively ambitious
and complex, lacking priorities and well-defined, realistic actions and options.
Additionally, an uncertain political commitment, the macroeconomic and social crisis,
institutional weaknesses, and the experimental nature of the Project were not fully taken
into account during Loan processing. Specially harmful was underestimation of the
negative impact on the SSMTAL of the heavily politicized atmosphere of social sector
agencies.
15.    Unforeseeable circumstances further compromised the Project's initial viability.
Paramount among these was the collapse of the Alfonsin administration in July 1989,
two months after the Loan became effective.
16.   In retrospect, a more focused approach in the three health and welfare sub-
projects and in the education sub-project would have avoided waste and improved impact.
Also, during the intial stage, should the Bank have better analyzed the implementation



viii
capacity of the multitude of agencies involved, the implementation might have proceeded
better.
17.   However, a balanced analysis of performance would not ignore the historical
conditions prevailing at the time the project objectives and scope were defined, and
would help explain Government and Bank decisions. Under this perspective, it would be
difficult to reject the main thrust underlying the SSMTAL: to promote, regardless of
risks and in response to critical socioeconomic and political conditions and a very weak
analytical base, the rapid introduction of tentative and mutually supporting broad sectoral
and inter-sectoral reforms.
18.   Viewed in this light, both the Government and the Bank were justified in being
audacious. While the Govemment needed to respond quickly to long-neglected and
rapidly worsening social needs, the Bank had a moral commitment to participate in a
major way. The Alfonsin administration represented the first democratic regime in
Argentina after many years of military rule. The Government had broad initial public
support, a well-defined ideology, and a clear mandate for change: for the first time since
the early 1950s, a government was elected with the participation of all political parties in
the electoral process. The Government's agenda embodied widespread hopes for change
after prolonged political instability, economic decline, and increased poverty.
19.   Bank participation in a broad reform thrust was further justified on the basis of
the Bank's own analyses (published in the late 1980s) indicating the large dimension of
unmet social needs, and the need to take bold steps. The collapse of the Alfonsin
administration could not have been foreseen.
20.   Ironically, the original overambitious plans provided a framework ample enough
for carrying out reforms under this Government. The sheer magnitude of the needs and
required efforts identified at appraisal reinforced the new Administration's view that there
were no alternatives to comprehensive reform. The restructured SSMTAL turned out to
be the main Government policy vehicle for developing human resource priorities.
21.   The two closing date extensions, the first one from mid-1992 to end-1993, and
the second one to mid-1994 (shortened by six months from the originally planned
extension), were amply justified and should have been expected given the Project's
complexity and the unreasonably short, original three-year implementation plan when
compared with the seven-year country implementation profile. By mid-1992, about
US$15 million or 55% of Loan proceeds had been disbursed, an indication of adequate
progress. Performance continuously improved from an initial "3" to an eventual "1"
overall rank. The Project's restructuring beginning in mid-1992 led to the consolidation
of tasks, and the reorientation of activities away from the weaker agencies (Ministry of
Health and Social Action, MSAS, and Ministry of Education, MinEd) to the stronger
ones (social security, labor, MinEc) in line with emerging priorities.
22.   The extensions permitted the completion of important sub-projects, such as the
national pension regime, Justice's informatics system, and program budgeting. The
autonomous public hospital initiative got started. Two investment projects were prepared



ix
in record time thanks to the ready availability of funds and the already established
administrative machinery. These two projects are being followed by second stages which
will extend reforms to the whole country in these two areas. On the negative side, the
Project was not forthcoming in inducing reforms in the following areas: (i) health sector
planning and development of a management information system; (ii) review of human
resources development policy in the health sector; and (iii) development of targeted
programs for disadvantaged groups such as street children and handicapped people.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROTECT
(Loan 2984-AR)
PART I: PROJECT OBJECTIVES, IMPLEMENTATION, OUTCOME
AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Project Objectives
Project Identity
1.
Name                  Social Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan
Loan Number           2984-AR
RVP Unit              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department I
Country               Argentina
Sectors               Health, welfare, education, social security, labor, justice,
statistics, management information, and public social
expenditure
Background
2.    Sector Development Objectives. Social sector development objectives were very
ambitious in response to critical political, social and macroeconomic conditions in the
country and long neglected needs. At the time of the SSMTAL's inception, Argentina
was in the midst of its most serious crisis in modem times, resulting from the
compounded effect of negative growth rates; uncontrolled inflation; large and growing
unemployment, public sector deficits and external debt service; and political instability .
3.    At that time, the Government and the Bank agreed that the long-standing neglect
of the poor was no longer acceptable. They also agreed on the urgency of introducing
intra-sectoral priorities, and on improving the efficiency and financial self-sufficiency of
programs that were costing Argentina billions of dollars a year, while showing little
impact on the intended beneficiaries.
4.    Inequity was particularly evident in the pension regime, education, housing and
health care. In these areas, disproportionate shares of resources (in relation to needs and
contributions) were being channelled to the better-off segments of the population.
Pensions were being provided regardless of the number of years worked and the amount



2
of contributions, while privileged regimes favoring the politically powerful segments of
society further increased inequity. Substantial expenditures on higher education
benefitted the middle classes at the expense of primary and secondary public education,
which were much more important to the poor. Subsidized housing was channelled also to
people of some means, not the truly poor. Hospital-based care consumed most of the
health sector resources and benefitted the insured and the urban uninsured to the
detriment of the rural uninsured, the segment with the greatest absolute poverty.
5.    Inefficiency plagued all sectors: oversized and leaderless bureaucracies; lack of
standards against which to measure performance, and of incentives to improve it; assured
life tenure of public servants regardless of merit; and poor control of productivity and
quality led to waste and diminished the flow of resources actually reaching beneficiaries,
most of whom were the poor, who disproportionately depended on those services.
6.    Cost recovery and other means of self-financing represented a small share of
social expenditures. Most of the financing had to be provided by general tax revenue
allocations which, in turn, contributed to worsening public sector deficits.
7.    Policy Context. The key policy issue of quickly developing the analytical base,
policy recommendations and institutional capacity in the social sectors led the
Government and the Bank to design the SSMTAL as a broad platform for getting reforms
underway. The Government was extremely anxious to get a social agenda off the
ground; while the Bank, reacting to Government's repeated urgings and based on its own
1987 social sectors, health and education analyses, was keen to use the SSMTAL as a
vehicle for becoming involved in a major way.
8.     The task was daunting. First, knowledge about coverage, degrees of
inefficiency, quality and cost recovery was virtually nonexistent. This in turn limited the
ability of policy makers to identify and orient tasks to the highest priorities. Second,
institutions were weak, another factor hindering the prior selection of programmatic areas
and agencies. Third, the option of proceeding with a more modest, better focused
approach ran counter to the broad and critical political and social needs of the time.
Fourth, a wider approach had the advantage of providing potential inter-sectoral linkages,
and satisfied the need to rationalize public social expenditures on a large scale.
9.    Linkages among Project. Sector, and Macro Policy Objectives. The linkages
among SSMTAL sector and policy objectives could not have been stronger. The
SSMTAL was designed and turned out to be the only vehicle for broad policy reform in
the social sectors at the time of its initiation. Indications of the high priority that the
Government gave the SSMTAL are: (a) the appointment of officials of the highest rank
as national project directors: first, MinEc's Secretary of Economy, then MinEc's
Secretary of Hacienda, and later the Secretary of the Presidency; (b) the large amount of
external and local resources allocated to the Project; (c) the participation of the main
social sector ministries; and (d) the establishment of executing units in those ministries
and agencies directly reporting to ministers, secretaries and national directors.



3
Project Objectives
10.   Overall Project Objectives. Original Project Objectives (Appendix 3) focused on
a wide diversity of often very specific policy actions and institutional strengthening
measures. These included establishing new economic policy, manpower management and
control units; preparing criteria and norms; introducing decentralized management and
financing, management training programs, incentive systems, targeting and
socioeconomic models; and establishing cost recovery, budgeting systems, management
information, monitoring and evaluation, and expenditure reviews. Sub-projects are
analyzed below in order of their size. Detailed lists of individual budgets and actual
expenditures by year, sub-project and task are available in the Working Papers, File B.
11.  Individual Sub-projects' Objectives. The three sub-projects under the aegis of the
Ministry of Health and Human Development (Ministerio de Salud y Accidn Social,
MSAS) were initially allocated the largest share of resources (US$11.2 million, later
reduced to US$7.4 million). They were: the health sub-project (US$5.9 million spent),
with four components supporting hospital administration and accreditation, manpower
development, management information systems, and health care financing. The health
coordination sub-project (US$0.5 million spent) aimed at restructuring the Ministry's
organization and management. The social action (welfare) sub-project (US$1.0 million
spent) aimed at improving assistance to homeless minors, the old and the handicapped.
12.   As an objective incorporated after the SSMTAL's restructuring, the health sub-
project financed and oversaw the preparation of the first national investment project in
the sector, the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition project (MCHN, Loan 3643-
AR). The project was prepared by a team (organized and under the supervision of
UNICEF) in less than 12 months and, after initial mishaps, has considerably improved
implementation, although disbursements are still behind original expectations.
13.   The hospital administration component was enlarged to: (a) include drafting
legislation (decrees 282/93 and 282/94) and initiating the execution of a plan to establish
the autonomous public hospitals (APH), with an autarkic legal regime which enables
them to set up their own boards, management and staffing, and charge fees for services
to the insured; and (b) introduce indicative fee scales and accreditation of hospitals to
enable them to compete for patients on standardized bases. By mid-1994 more than
50,000 beds, or half of the total number of public hospital beds, were incorporated under
the APH regime.
14.   As results of consolidation and re-orientation of sector strategy (Mid-term
Evaluation and ongoing supervision), new objectives added during implementation, such
as improving competition in the drug market and the quality control of foods and drugs,
were amply reached.
15.   After serious initial delays (by early 1992 less than 10% of the funds allocated
had been spent) the manpower and MIS components took off in earnest. Under the
manpower development component, proposals were drafted and agreements reached with
the faculties of medicine of the universities of Buenos Aires and Tucuman to modify



4
curricula and introduce post- and pre-graduate programs in family medicine. An
inventory of nursing resources was made, and training programs introduced to upgrade
nursing auxiliaries and assistants to the level of registered nurses. Under the health
promotion component (added subsequently) programs are being introduced to prevent
work-related accidents, the most important cause of illness among young adults. The
failed Greater Buenos Aires investment proposal produced a number of schemes of
practical importance to improve population targeting, health care networks, accreditation
and referral standards and cost controls. The health insurance component (US$0.3
million) was a failure due to lack of cooperation of the labor union-controlled health
financing agencies. Likewise, the health coordination (US$0.6 million) and social action
(allocated US$1.9 million, later reduced to US$1.0 million) sub-projects proved
unsuccessful (the only contribution of the latter being the establishment of the Tribunal
for Minors and supporting legislation), and were terminated in early 1994.
16.   Of the education sub-project's original 14 components (US$5.1 million reduced to
US$3.7 million), six (dealing with labor problems and inter-institutional relations,
management information, technologies, research on educational reform, and development
programming) costing US$650,000 were terminated early (in 1989 and 1990). Although
some valuable analytical reports were produced, they lacked the necessary focus on
practical results. Of the remaining eight components, five (a national inventory of
physical infrastructure, restructuring the federal Ministry, manpower development,
quality of secondary schooling and secondary schools' teacher training) were highly
successful, and two (university management and coordination, and technical education)
produced high quality results, with the former providing the basis for preparing a Bank-
assisted investment project. The policy unit and budgeting and financial control
components produced mixed results. Overall, these components were reoriented to better
support the decentralization of secondary schools and the Decentralized Secondary
Education Improvement project (Ln. 3794-AR), which was approved by the Board in
September 1994.
17.   Under the justice sub-project (US$3.3 million, increased to US$6.0 million), an
initially modest proposal to develop pilot schemes was expanded to include upgrading the
nationwide computerized legal system to permit the consolidation of legal information and
its cross-referencing, as well as easy and standardized access to pending litigation for
both the public and private sub-sectors.
18.   The social security sub-project (with an initial budget of US$ 1.9 million later
increased to US$2.3 million) had three components which strengthened revenue collection
and the distribution of benefits, and also, developed an alternative pension model.  The
labor sub-project (US$0.3 million, increased to US$1.5 million) was originally geared to
enhancing the role of the Labor Secretariat in expanding employment. It was later
reoriented and expanded to help develop the national labor law promulgated in 1992, and
complementary legislation promoting collective bargaining by individual enterprises,
linking salaries to productivity.
19. The INDEC sub-project (the budget of which was increased from US$750,000 to
US$1.2 million) was substantially expanded from a pilot statistical effort in three



5
provinces to include the development of health and welfare data modules which were
incorporated into the census and the periodic household surveys of main population
centers. This sub-project also designed and helped introduce standardized basic statistical
systems for health and education in 17 of the 24 provinces. The social expenditure sub-
project (US$215,000 spent) consisted originally of a national review of sources and uses
of public funds. It was expanded (its allocation increased by US$1 million) to include
the design of a system of program budgeting for the social sectors.
20.   Broadly speaking, policymaking objectives, such as privatization, the reduction of
the public debt, increasing efficiency and lowering local production costs to compete
internationally (social security, labor, justice, health and social expenditure sub-projects),
and service decentralization and rationalization (education, health and INDEC sub-
projects) were reached and in most cases surpassed.
21.   The objective of improving the delivery of services was reached for social
security, labor, justice, INDEC and MinEc. Service delivery of primary health care and
secondary education should improve under the respective investment projects prepared
with SSMTAL financing.
22.   Cost recovery and economic rationalization objectives were successfully reached
or are being pursued. Social security registered the largest results. More equitable and
higher levels of user charges have been introduced on a large scale under the social
security pension regime. The autonomous public hospital legislation allows charging
fees for services provided to insured patients. The Computerized Legal Information
System (SAIU) was designed to sell its services to users once its usefulness is established.
Improved targeting is being fulfilled by the social security sub-project (identification of
taxpayers and beneficiaries, and charging fees linked to ability to pay); the labor sub-
project (identification of the self employed and the unemployed); the justice sub-project
(identification of potential SAIU users); and MinEc's social expenditure sub-project
(identification of who pays, and who benefits from social expenditures). Monitoring and
evaluation were strengthened in all of the above sub-projects, and should benefit from
the implementation of the MCHN and the secondary education investment projects.
B. Project Implementation
Project Design and Organization
23.   The Project was originally designed on the basis of independently developed
agency proposals which were not properly vetted and consolidated by MinEc. After
appraisal, MinEc and the Bank decided to emphasize action-oriented studies, and the
implementation of their recommendations. In early 1991, the Loan documents were
changed to permit financing of preparation of health, education and social security
investment projects.
24.   The National Project Director (NPD) and the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
coordinated the work of the participating agencies, monitored their performance, and



6
coordinated with the Bank. Each participating agency operated through an executing unit
directly reporting to the respective minister (in the case of ministries) or secretary (in the
case of secretariats). Two interagency committees directly under the aegis of the PCU
were set up to coordinate work on statistics and informatics carried out by the
participating agencies.
Critical Variables and Issues
25.   The main gaps between planned and actual implementation are related to
organization and management, scope and timing.
A. Organization and Management
26.   The most important factor bearing on management performance was that the PCU
was forced to play the role of a national social sectors planning and coordinating body.
In the absence of formal institutional arrangements for carrying out these tasks, the PCU
had to carry this heavy burden in difficult political times and without a formal mandate or
lines of command. In the circumstances it did a remarkably good job of helping set
priorities, and enforcing the fulfillment of targets and programs.
27.   Based on the lessons of experience which revealed the limits of the NPD Office's
capabilities, and the potential for conflict at the NPD level, the NPD's role was limited
to general performance overview and policy guidance. The PCU, under new and more
forceful management from March 1990 through completion, was strengthened with
specialists in charge of overall monitoring, individual sub-project coordination, and
general administration (accounting, reporting and internal audits). The PCU's role was
expanded to encompass all day-to-day management responsibilities, including approval of
agency coordinators, consultants and purchase contracts, review of the bi-annual progress
reports and action plans, preparation of disbursement requests, organization of audits,
and liaison with the Bank.
28.   Executing agency units suffered in the first three years from high management
turnover at the highest levels of their respective ministries, particularly in the case of
health and welfare, but to some extent also in justice and labor. The best performing
units were those of MinEc, social security, labor and justice. A more active PCU
supported executing units effectively in providing timely funding, reviewing performance
and establishing action plans.
29.   Participating external agencies were the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO). UNDP
performed a vital role, first in providing bridge financing to get the Project started, and
later in processing consultant and purchasing equipment contracts which could not be
handled by Argentineans because of potential litigation risks (which included the
possibility of being accused even on flimsy evidence of misappropriation of public funds).
PAHO performed a useful function in the initial stages: it hired health consultants, kept
records and revised consultant reports for the PCU. International agencies, such as
ILO/CIAT, PAHO, UNESCO and ILPES made mid-term and final external evaluations



7
of sub-projects in their respective areas. A UNICEF team prepared the MCHN
investment project.
30.   After a long teething period, Project accounting, reporting, field supervision, and
overall monitoring eventually were carried out satisfactorily. Two computerized
accounting and recordkeeping systems were introduced: one (database), to serve the
internal needs of the PCU; the other (PARADOX), to transfer biannually relevant
information to the Bank. Progress reports and action plans were prepared by the
executing agencies, reviewed and approved by the PCU and sent to the Bank twice a year
prior to the mid- and end-year supervision missions. Importantly, disbursements were
authorized only on the basis of satisfactory progress reports and action plans. This
strengthened compliance.
31.   Auditing. Internal audits, by a private firm, were introduced in 1992 and helped
improve PCU accounting and recordkeeping. The timing of external audits by the
Tribunal de Cuentas de la Naci6n (TCN) improved through 1991: while the 1989 audit
was not carried out until April 1991 with a one-year delay; and the 1990 audit was made
in August 1991 with a four-month delay; the 1991 audit was completed on time by April
1992. However, the 1992 audit was delayed until September 1993 due to major changes
in organization and management of public sector audits which included the elimination of
the TCN and its replacement by a new entity, the Auditorfa General de la Naci6n
(AGEN). The 1993 audit was delayed until August 1994 for similar reasons. AGEN
has agreed to carry out the 1994 audit from November 1994 to March 1995.
32.   All external audits were qualified: the auditors could not have access to UNDP or
PAHO documentation with sufficient specificity to ascertain the sources and uses of
funds. This matter, long discussed by the Bank and UNDP at the highest levels, was not
satisfactorily resolved during implementation.
B. Scope
Project Mid-Term Restructuring
33.   The Project was restructured as a result of close supervision in 1990/91 and the
1992 mid-term review, and focused on fewer, higher priority tasks. One important
priority was to finish ongoing tasks of high potential impact. Developing enabling
legislation for the labor and social security reforms are important examples. Others were
completing justice's SAIJ; extending the introduction of INDEC's health and education
basic statistics systems to 17 provinces; and operationalizing program budgeting. Tasks
which were not related to practical results (mainly in education, partly in health) were
terminated. The restructuring led to a transfer of several million dollars from health,
education and social action to labor, justice, MinEc, social security, INDEC and the
PCU. Within the health sub-project a major reorientation was carried out. It included
funding tasks related to legislation freeing prices, and standardizing drug marketing,
introducing the autonomous public hospital and supporting the enhancement of basic
health-oriented manpower and management information. Two investment projects were
prepared: the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition (MCHN) project; and the



8
Decentralized Secondary Education Improvement project. Specific budget transfers
among sub-projects and tasks, actual expenditures and balances are available in the
Working Papers, Project file B on Performance, Addenda 1, 2 and 3. Total expenditures
amounted to US$27.4 million or 98% of Loan funds.
34.   Cutting down the size and scope of health sector activities was a major task.
Originally, the health sub-project comprised 278 individual studies and activities under
the responsibility of ill-prepared staff and management. Lack of clear prioritization and
poor definition of tasks, together with focusing of attention on six-month work programs
as opposed to final objectives, led to the indiscriminate hiring of consultants,
procurement irregularities, poor coordination, and low quality of outputs during the first
two years of implementation. Reference has been made to the education sub-project's
major consolidation at the end of 1990, and its reorientation to support an investment
operation.
C. Timing
The three-year implementation period calculated at appraisal was unrealistically
short. It was out of line with the country's seven-year implementation profile, and
under-estimated political, economic and institutional constraints prevailing at the time.
Key aspects of the Project which required a longer implementation period are discussed
below.
Risks
35.   Technical assistance operations are more difficult to carry out, monitor and
evaluate than typical investment projects involving defined target populations, physical
works and traditional (and unambiguous) monitoring and evaluation standards. Multi-
purpose operations like the SSMTAL involve additional risks when compared to single-
sector projects. Risks were increased by the experimental nature of the SSMTAL, which
was the first comprehensive Government intervention (and the first project for the Bank)
in the social sectors in Argentina.
36.   Additionally, the SSMTAL faced serious obstacles which could not have been
foreseen at the time of appraisal. The main unforeseen factors were: (a) the collapse of
the Alfonsin administration six months before the end of its constitutional mandate, which
disrupted execution and brought about a complete change in Government objectives and
management; and (b) the high turnover of management staff, changes in agendas and
overall lack of leadership, particularly in the NPD's office and in the MSAS.
Project Documentation
37.   Staff Appraisal Report and Working Papers. The staff appraisal report and related
documentation, although somewhat imprecise in terms of operationalizing intended tasks,
were generally adequate at the time they were written. However, much of it was quickly
rendered obsolete by the macroeconomic and political changes which gripped Argentina
during 1989.



9
38.   Progress Reports, Action Plans and Supervision Reports. The timing and quality
of progress reports were originally inadequate, but improved consistently. PCU
recordkeeping also improved with the computerization of information. Supervision
reports were timely, and in 1992 and 1993 accurately analyzed critical conditions and
recommended remedial action. Bank budget constraints and the difficulty of sharing
costs with other projects did not permit fielding the November 1993 supervision mission,
but this did not affect implementation due to sustained review efforts.
39.   Documentation Center. The PCU, with the help of documentation experts,
established a documentation center containing approximately 3,000 substantive documents
prepared by consultants for future reference. The documents are organized by
secretariat, sub-project and topic. Abstracts were made of each document for easier
reference. Lists of all these documents have been compiled, both in book form and in
microfilm under the same classifications. By December 1994, one full set of written
documents has been transferred to the Secretariat of the Presidency and another to
MinEc's Secretariat of Economic Programming. At that time the recipient of the
microfilm was determined.
Project Relationships
40.   Bank relations with MinEc's top management were very good. MinEc supported
PCU and Bank efforts for improving objectives, scope and procedures. Relations with
the Secretaria de la Presidencia were not good initially, but improved with the forced
resignation of the official temporarily deputized by the NPD.
41.   PCU relations with the executing agencies improved in spite of the latter's high
management turnover and the difficulties associated with dealing with politically powerful
line agency ministers. Good relations eventually enabled the SSMTAL to play a useful
coordinating role for social sector agencies and MinEc.
42.   The main credit for improving interagency relationships belonged to the PCU's
coordinator and staff. They adroitly handled inherently difficult situations with executing
agencies, including the NPD management crisis of 1991.
43.   Importantly, the SSMTAL served as a catalyst to enlist the participation of
national and international agencies involved with the social sectors. Argentinean private
research groups carried out important analytical work, such as the di Tella Institute's
original research on social sector expenditures. Reference has already been made (para
29) to the international agencies' participation. UNICEF's role was critical in organizing
and managing the preparation (in record time and with a high quality product) of the
MCHN investment project, which MSAS would have been unable to do at the time.
Consulting Services
44.   Role of Consultants. Consultants carried out practically all the substantive work.
The regular staff of the executing agencies were not capable of providing the required
expertise. Decades of continued deterioration in the quality of the civil service (due to



10
worsening recruitment standards, remuneration and other incentives, and virtually assured
permanence in their jobs regardless of performance) precluded involving civil servants in
a major executing role. An additional factor was that the few competent high level
Administration appointees in the social sector agencies were overwhelmed by their
normal workloads. The secretariats of social security, labor and finance (Hacienda)
succeeded in involving line staff closely with consultants. The justice secretariat
maintained its executing unit's staff in place in spite of changes of secretaries. This was
a key factor in carrying out the SAU component. The numbers and distribution of
consultants are available in the Working Papers, Project file B, Addendum 4. The
Addendum reveals the large number of short-term consultancies (many on a monthly
basis, the result of NPD's haphazard management practices) in 1989 and 1990, the
slower pace of work while the Project was being restructured in 1991, and the pickup of
activity in the final two and a half years of implementation.
45.   Performance and Impact. The PCU was fully staffed by consultants. Its
performance improved over time with a new, effective coordinator and the appointment
of specialists and support staff. At its peak in 1993 the PCU had 6 full time sub-project
coordinators and 8 administrative staff, as well as several part-time consultants.
46.   Consultant performance and impact were uneven. The best performing
consultants were those working on social security, labor, justice, MinEc and INDEC,
which enjoyed strong leadership, clear objectives, and well defined work programs.
Many of the worst performing consultants worked on health and welfare in 1989, 1990
and 1991. The education sub-project's consultant performance was mixed. High-quality
consultants working on clearly defined tasks, such as those supporting secondary
education, obtained good results. But much waste could have been avoided: poorly
supervised, large numbers of consultants with vaguely defined terms of reference and
action plans produced reports of dubious value which required canceling a number of
components during the first two years of implementation.
47.   Initial lack of standards, inadequacy of the original remuneration system, lack of
compliance with the agreed new consultant remuneration system and high rates of
inflation (accompanied by delayed fee adjustments) led to deteriorating consultant pay in
real terms, low morale and lower quality of consultants in the first two years of
implementation.
48.   Consultant remuneration suffered while inflationary conditions continued
unabated. The new remuneration system, designed in early 1990 by a UNDP consultant,
was based on periodically updated market analyses of 14 key professional groupings and
on equal shares of the Buenos Aires CPI and the US dollar exchange rate as measured by
UNDP. However, the rules of the approved remuneration system were not respected by
the NPD on several occasions: increases in the real value of fees resulting from exchange
rate movements were countermanded, while the system's rules were applied when they
led to lower real fees. The impact on quality of output in 1989, 1990 and 1991 cannot
be measured, but may have been significant.



11
49.   Other factors contributed to poor consultant performance. First, the massive
contracting of individuals as opposed to consulting firms affected consistency, timing and
quality of output. The problem was unavoidable in health and education due to the lack
of reputable consulting firms. Individual consultants often worked on narrowly defined
assignments and were not responsible for delivering complete products which could be
better coordinated and assessed. Other negative factors were: during the first half of
1991, contracts were signed by the NPD for short (one to two months) time periods
having no relationship with task requirements. This situation was resolved with the
forced departure of the NPD; particularly during 1989 to 1991, hiring criteria were often
unspecified; terms of reference (under the health and education sub-projects) often were
not well defined; quality control was poor at the level of the executing agency (health,
welfare and education) because the supervisors were not professionally equipped to
provide adequate monitoring; consultants were not integrated with line staff in the health,
social action, and education areas.
50.   Lessons of Experience.  The following actions strengthened the role of
consultants in 1993 and 1994: (a) introducing criteria for elaborating terms of reference,
hiring consultants and monitoring their work; (b) linking consultant payments to
intermediate and final product quality, timing and acceptability; (c) having intermediate
and final outputs reviewed by external consultants and agencies; (d) abiding by agreed
pay scales related to cost of living indicators; and (e) in important cases, Bank review of
consulting proposals and bids.
The Japanese Grant
51. The Japanese Grant was approved on June 20, 1988 with the limited objectives of
financing assistance to production cooperatives and self-help community centers. The
Grant was inactive for almost three years due to the lack of the required Government
signatures, difficult to obtain during the 1988/90 political crisis. At the request of the
Bank, the Grant was amended on April 1, 1991 to better support the SSMTAL. It was
finally approved by the Government in September 1991 and was signed the following
December 19. The amended three-year Yen-denominated US$4.4 million grant (at
August 1994 exchange rates) is providing support in critical areas which lacked
alternative financing: (a) as an integral part of the SSMTAL, strengthening the
decentralization of education (by financing the preparation of the secondary education
investment project); and (b) promoting reforms for which Bank assistance was not readily
available. These included, besides the original tasks of promoting the development of
cooperatives in line with privatization efforts and self-help centers for minors, a review
of litigation against the State and a training program for federal and provincial social
agency managers.
52.   Implementation began in earnest in April 1992. The closing date has been
extended from December 31, 1994 to June 30, 1995. Disbursements quickly accelerated
to US$2 million or one half of financing by mid-1993, US$3.2 million or 80% by the
end of 1993 and to US$3.6 million by June 30, 1994. Expenditures have been made on
consultancies (95%) and training.



12
C. Assessment of Project Impact
53. The SSMTAL's impact would be hard to exaggerate. It is likely to grow further in
the medium term as newly designed policies and systems are implemented. A thorough
performance evaluation in 3 to 5 years is essential to measure the full impact of the
Project. A summary evaluation at the time of closing is given below. Reforms and
institutional improvements undertaken were made possible because of the Government's
positive political will to enact these new changes and reforms.
Sub-projects Already Having Major Innpact
54.   The social security sub-project has produced by far the largest impact. It
provided the system (Law 4241/93, Decrees 1324/91 and 1831/93, and Resolutions 3 and
991/92 establishing a consolidated national administration, a single national labor
registry, a registry of large and medium-size enterprises, an accounting system, a data
bank of contributors and beneficiaries, and operational manuals) which resulted in
increases in employers' pension contributions and family allowances, unemployment
insurance and health insurance payments of almost 2.3 times, from US$4.8 billion to
US$10.8 billion in real terms over the past three years. Analyses and administrative
machinery set up under the SSMTAL permitted estimating (for the first time ever) the
accumulated debt with pensioners and reducing the debt from US$11.8 billion to US$3
billion in three years, while enabling the system to make the right payments on time to
pensioners and their beneficiaries. Most importantly, it designed and introduced a new
pension regime which will comprise about one half of potential contributors (2.5 million
out of 5.1 million) by the end of 1995 which provides for individual savings accounts,
professional management of investments and self-liquidating results. This system
replaces one which was producing annual operating deficits running into the billions of
dollars.
55.   The labor sub-project's impact is already exceeding expectations. The new labor
law and supplementary legislation on collective bargaining and productivity are beginning
to provide the bases for opening the labor markets, allowing competition, lowering
production costs and introducing transparency and accountability in labor markets. The
law introduces a system to measure unemployment, and enhances fixed-term and part-
time employment, salary adjustments, uniform norms and procedures, and more flexible
and less costly processes of hiring and firing employees. Under the law, 140,000
workers are benefiting from unemployment insurance, more than 100,000 benefit from
intensive employment schemes, and thousands more are receiving short-duration,
intensive training to qualify them for available jobs. More than 14,000 collective
bargaining centers are replacing the 400-odd centralized and rigid salary-fixing centers
which existed before the new legislation and which tended to increase salaries to the
highest possible levels regardless of economic justification.
56.   Similarly, the results of MinEc's social public expenditure sub-project are
exceeding original expectations. The sub-project was initially conceived as a review of
sources and uses of public funds for the social sectors. The review was the first



13
comprehensive analysis in Argentina of sources and uses of funds, and results in the
social sectors, the first major effort at quantifying the distributional impact of public
policies and programs, and the first attempt at measuring the equity and efficiency of
programs and their budgetary aspects. The review's findings and recommendations were
widely disseminated, and are already having an impact on public policy. More than
1,400 sets of reports were distributed to public and private agencies, and monthly
seminars are still being conducted on these subjects by the consulting firm which carried
out the studies.
57.   MinEc's newly introduced program budgeting system is already showing major
impact. The system, incorporated in the 1994 national budget, permits measuring input
units and the production of goods and services, defining programs by objectives,
identifying the executive unit responsible for each major task, establishes deadlines and
performance indicators, and an economic classification of resources and expenditures.
Program budgeting played a major role in helping decentralize national hospitals and
secondary education in 1993. The system proved so successful for the social sectors that
it has been extended to include the economic sectors, and the first five participating
provinces.
Sub-projects with Major Potential Impact
58.   In the education sector, a good share of the analytical work carried out was
incorporated as elements of the Decentralized Secondary Education Improvement project,
which aims (together with a planned second stage) at strengthening decentralization,
efficiency and quality of secondary schooling, all of which would have a major impact on
the administration and financing of education services and, in the longer term, on the
quality of the labor force.
59.   Health Sector. The new system for liberalizing drug marketing, and controlling
the quality of foods, drugs and medical equipment, is already having an impact in the
marketplace, which should expand gradually in line with larger coverage. Resolution
47/93 introduced a new regime liberalizing drug prices, favoring the production of
generic drugs and deregulating marketing. A new entity (the national administration of
drugs, foodstuffs and medical technology, ANMAT) was established (Resolution 47/93),
and now controls quality standards at 310 drug manufacturing plants. ANMAT is also
beginning to control the quality of medical equipment and materials, such as fibrillators,
respirators and contraceptives. Medical prescription practices are being reviewed, and
food quality control schemes are being tried out in three provinces.
60.   The impact of the promulgation of Decree 578 of April 1, 1993 introducing the
autonomous public hospital (APH) will depend to a large extent on the degree of
commitment of provincial health authorities. The impact will also depend on the
adoption of legislation permitting hospitals to perform as autarkies, the most liberal legal
regime for the organization, management and financing of entities with a public service
purpose. In any event, this is likely to be a long process of changing not only
legislation, but administrative structures and the attitude of participants. The expansion
of programs for training family physicians and nurses could represent a major turning



14
point in orienting services towards health promotion and simple curative care, but again
will depend on the speed with which present practices are modified, beginning with
changed university curricula and funding practices. The MCHN project, and its already
planned second phase, could serve as major instruments for enhancing equity and
efficiency throughout the health sector. Analyses carried out as part of preparation of the
first Greater Buenos Aires investment proposal are being used to improve targeting,
develop health service networks, coordinate similar medical specialties and control costs
in the city of Buenos Aires including the recently transferred national hospitals.
61.   The justice sub-project developed a national, computerized legal information
system which should standardize and consolidate the data base for litigation and legal
administration. Its potential impact has been enhanced by the incorporation of the entire
legal systems of the state (the Procuracion Nacional), representing 80 legal units and
involving more than 1,800 lawyers. Further administrative support (perhaps transferring
SAIJ administration to the Legislative Affairs Secretariat in the Ministry), and financial
assistance to get started in a major way are necessary to produce the intended results
nationwide.
62.   INDEC's sub-project succeeded in introducing health and education performance
indicators and questionnaires in the household surveys. It also designed and helped
introduce basic statistical models for health and education in 17 of the 24 provinces.
Its impact will depend entirely on the degree of commitment of provincial governments in
carrying out the proposals and making use of them for policy and program
administration. The impact will also depend on the degree of coordination reached
among provincial health, and statistical services. Progress is likely to be uneven over the
medium term until the new standards gain wide recognition.
Sub-projects with Minimal Impact
63.   The social action (welfare) sub-project was a failure. Several reorientations and
changes in scope produced no important results because the Social Action Secretariat
lacked a clear mandate and working program and also suffered from the highest
management turnover of all executing agencies. The SSMTAL-based new National
Council for Minors and the Family and analyses oriented to improving services for the
aged have potential value, but they operate in a policy vacuum. The health coordination
sub-project was superseded by measures which concentrated responsibilities in the Health
Secretariat.
64.   Inter-agency MIS efforts suffered from the lack of previous national standards,
differing agency requirements and agenda and poor interagency cooperation.
Improvement efforts never commanded the necessary priority. The interagency statistics
and information committees did not work well. Impact in this area was minimal. These
failed inter-agency efforts did not impact negatively on the separately developed MSAS
and MinEd systems, which are meeting their goals.



15
Overall Impact
65.   The Project's overall impact should be enhanced by: (a) the continuing increases
in resources allocated to health, education and justice (the result of Government's
national privatization and rationalization efforts); (b) the strengthening of inter-agency
cooperation through seminars and discussions among project consultants, which
established promising links; (c) the dissemination of published results and main products
and their public discussion through seminars and workshops. Recipients of the above
literature and participants in the discussions include the top layers of federal and
provincial administrations, members of Congress, universities and research centers, and
private firms (a list is in Working Papers, Project file F). These are helping increase
awareness of key issues, both substantively and in the areas of transparency and
accountability; and (d) the fact that many of the Project consultants are now in executive
positions which enable them to execute plans and recommendations which they
sponsored.
66.   The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is planning to finance second stages
of the SSMTAL-funded components dealing with employment in the northern (poorest)
provinces, health promotion, labor and the administration of justice (estimated US$30
million allocated between two investments under processing). Financing is also being
contemplated for follow-up implementation of the autonomous hospitals component.
D. Project Sustainability
67.   The continued reform thrust of the present Administration improves the likelihood
of sustained actions in pursuit of the Project's goals. New laws, decrees, regulations and
institutional arrangements are being used to reorient policies, enhance equity, increase
financial solvency and improve resource use on a large scale and across a broad sectoral
spectrum. Also, the SSMTAL is helping to raise awareness of the need for targeting,
rationalization, transparency and accountability in the social sectors, a major
improvement when compared with historical practices. Another long-term gain is the
establishment of serious operational research as a permanent element of MinEc's
contribution to social sector development. Implementing the health care and education
investment projects will consolidate SSMTAL-originated policy and institutional reforms
at the provincial and municipal levels.
68.   The IDB will finance follow-up stages of the justice, health and labor sub-projects
with an estimated US$30 million allocated under two projects which are being
processed.
E. Bank Performance
69.     Major Strengths and Weaknesses. The Bank proved useful in helping turn
general goals into specific programs and actions. The Bank's selective interventions were
critical in defining the need, objectives and scope of the Project (Appendix 6, Addenda 1,



16
2 and 3); and subsequently, in improving project performance. Previous Bank social
sector analyses (Social Sectors in Crisis ', and the Population, Health and Nutrition
Review 2 in 1987) provided the initial analyses, and the justification, for the SSMTAL.
70.   Bank supervision helped preserve the Project, and reorient and restructure
individual sub-projects. During the second half of 1989, the Bank assumed operational
responsibilities to get the Project started in spite of great political and legal uncertainties
which weakened local managers' ability to function. At that time, the Bank helped
preserve the health, social security and labor projects, which were going to be eliminated
by the respective ministers.
71.   The Bank helped focus the Project. Bank initiatives supported by the PCU helped
introduce new components, as follows: labor (collective bargaining, and linking salaries
to productivity); justice (a major expansion of the scope of the SAIJ sub-project); INDEC
(introduction of statistical systems in the provinces); and public social expenditure
(program budgeting).
72.   The Bank also helped: (a) solve organization and management problems at the
levels of the NPD and the PCU; (b) introduce investment project preparation as a
legitimate project objective; and (c) establish adequate procedures (partly by helping
identify and overcome irregularities in hiring consultants for the health sub-project).
73.   The Bank's commitment to the Project included: (a) providing task management
and supervision staff continuity beginning in 1990; and (b) allocating substantial
implementation resources to help overcome major problems and to restructure the
Project. The 38 sw allocated in FY90 were increased to 53 sw in FY91; and
subsequently declined to a still substantial 36 sw in FY92 before falling to 16 sw in FY93
and 10 sw in FY94. Bank staff played a major role in restructuring the Japanese Grant
and encouraging the Government to sign it.
F. Borrower Performance
74.   Borrower performance continuously improved under the present Administration
with the appointment of strong top managers in all executing agencies. A strengthened
PCU endowed with expanded powers was another important factor in improving
performance. Coordination with the implementing agencies improved as a result of the
appointment of capable executing agency staff with clear mandates. Better defined and
enforced procedures also helped improve results.
1. Social Sectors in Crisis - Argentina, a World Bank (green cover) sector report, Report
No. 6900, July 1987.
2. Population, health and nutrition sector review - Argentina, gray cover report, Report
No. 6555, October 1987.



17
75.   Major weaknesses were: (a) initially, at the macro level, an unstable, and
inadequately staffed and motivated civil service; and (b) at the Project level, the difficulty
of controlling the quality of a large number of outputs, and limited availability of the
required expertise on a timely basis.
G. Summary of Lessons Learned
76.     By the Bank. In the future, the Bank should focus on a few, well-defined goals
and tasks. This is particularly important for technical assistance, which is more difficult
to control and evaluate. Government's needs and commitment, as well as
macroeconomic and political constraints, should be assessed to determine the probability
of success. A more gradual pace of reform might be advisable for the more radical
reform proposals. Limiting the number of participating agencies is essential. The
availability of experts should be ascertained before embarking on reforms of less
traditional sectors, such as justice, labor, and management information. Ensuring closer
monitoring of consultants by the PCU, tighter TORs, and so on would also be important.
The mid-term evaluation was critical in restructuring the Project and in enhancing its
impact.
77.   By the Borrower. The needs are: simplifying objectives, activities and
institutional arrangements; defining a critical path and closely monitoring its execution;
ascertaining that conditions are favorable for providing greater continuity in leadership
and administration; and ensuring that the required expertise will be available.
78.   As mentioned above, lessons of experience should not detract from the merit of
Govemment's and the Bank's decision-makers when the circumstances prevailing at the
time of preparation and appraisal are taken into account. Those circumstances justified to
a large extent the more ambitious original course of action for this project, and provided
the framework for major reform under an Administration more favorably disposed to
achieving its goals.






18
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES
1. Summary of Assessments
Table IA: Assessments Through Time
Rating                          FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
Overall Status                   3       2       1      1       1
Project Objectives               3       2       1      1       1
Compliance with Covenants        2       1       1      1       1
Management Performance           3       2      2       1       1
Availability of Funds            3       2       1      1       1
Procurement Progress             3       2       1      1       1
Training Progress                3       2      2       1       1
T. A. Progress                   2       2       1      1       1
Studies Progress                 3       1       1      1       1
Table 1B: Consolidated Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro policies                      substantial
Sector policies                     substantial
Financial objectives                substantial
Institutional development           partial
Physical objectives                 n.a.
Poverty reduction                   n.a.
Gender issues                       n.a.
Other social objectives             substantial
Environmental objectives            n.a.
Public sector management            substantial
Private sector development         : substantial
B. Project Sustainability              : likely
C. Bank Performance
Identification                     : satisfactory
Preparation assistance             : highly satisfactory
Appraisal                          : satisfactory
Supervision                        : highly satisfactory
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                        : deficient
Implementation                     : highly satisfactory after poor initially
Covenant compliance                : highly satisfactory
Operations                         : highly satisfactory
E.  Assessment of outcome              : highly satisfactory



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
79. The SSMTAL was the first Bank loan to the Argentinean social sectors. Other reform-
oriented Bank loans approved since February 1991 are the: (a) Public Sector Management
TAL (Loan 2712), completed; (b) Municipal Development (Loan 2920); (c) Provincial
Development (Loan 3280); and (d) Public Sector Reform (Loans 3362 and 3394). These
projects supported economic stabilization, public sector institutional reform, reduction of
public sector deficits, privatization, improved public sector management, transfer of functions
and financing to the provinces, and strengthened provincial and municipal administration. In
FY94, the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition project (Loan 3643-AR) became effective
and started being implemented; and the Decentralized Secondary Education Improvement
project was presented to the Board in September 1994.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned           Actual Date
Identification                            April 1987            April 1987
Preparation                              October 1987          October 1987
Appraisal                                 April 1988            April 1988
Negotiations                              May 1988              May 1988
Board Presentation                        July 1988             July 1988
Signing                                  August 1988          February 1989
Effectiveness                           September 1988          May 1989
Mid-term Review                                                 May 1992
Project Completion                      December 1991           May 1994
Loan Closing                              June 1992             June 1994
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(UJS$ million)
FY    89      90     91     92      93     94    95
Appraisal Estimate             8.5   17.9   25.5   28.0 |_I_T_
Actual                         2.9    5.5   12.5   15.0   22.0   26.9  27.4
Actual as % of estimate        34      31     49  1 54  1 79        96    98
Date of final disbursement: July 19, 1994.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator                Discussed                 Accomplished
OVERALL MANAGEMENT
Delegation of powers to PCU       Sept. 88         Full delegation Oct. 91
Jul.-Dec. 90                                          l
Nat. Proj. Dir.                   Jul.-Dec. 90     Single line command Jan. 91
PCU strengthening                 Jul. 89-Dec. 90   Continuous improvement Sept. 89 to
completion
CONSULTANTS
Task-based hiring                 Jul. 90-june 91   Eventually carried out all sub-projects
(health delays)
Preference to firms/groups        Jul.-Dec. 89     As above, also education delayed
Fair Compensation                 April 89         UNDP system worked from early 91
July-Dec. 90     with Peso/US$ parity
Integration with line staff       Dec. 90          Espec. success. labor, soc. security,
justice, MinEc.
Follow Bank Procedures            Dec. 90          MSAS irregularities fixed June 91
PROJECT SCOPE/PROCEDURES
Project restructuring             May 92           Consol. educ Sept. 90; health Dec. 90;
MIS Dec. 91-General restruc. mid 92
Loan amendment providing financing of
July 91         investment operations
Japanese Grant                    April 89         Reformulation and signing in Dec. 91
Disbursements                     July-Dec. 90     NPD capricious cuts corrected Dec. 90
Accounting                        Jul. 89-Dec. 90   Database and Paradox operat. Jan. 91
Progress Reports/Action Plans     Dec. 89          Formats agreed Dec. 89
Single report Bank/UNDP July 90
Audits                            Dec. 89          1989 audit by April 91
1990 audit by Aug. 91
1991 audit by April 92
1992 audit by Sept. 93
1993 audit by Aug. 94



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Indicator              Estimated                             Actual
1. Health         develop targeting, financing,  Pres. Dec. (user choice ins) signed; auton.
manpower, accreditation,    hosp., drugs food qual. contr. legisl. enacted
hosp. manag. and MIS plans  and operational targeting and MIS failures
2. Coordination    improve MSAS org., man.    unsuccessful
l _______________  develop
3. Human          develop support systems for   establ. of Tribunal for Minors and related
Development   minors, the aged             legislat.; dev. support systems transferred
under Japanese Grant
4. Education      develop decentr. structure    subst. contrib. through Second. Educ. inv.
and operational standards   project
5. Social         increase revenues           22% increase April 91 to July 94
Security       rationalize benefit adm.    major improvement
develop pension alternatives   new nat. pension regime designed, approved,
operational
6. Labor          support employment          new nat. empl. law; collective bargaining and
creation                    productivity legal structures
7. Justice        national legal info. system  hardware/software purch. for
operationalization 1994/95
8. INDEC          develop health, educ.       system developed at nat. level and introduced
statistics                  in 17 provinces
9. Public         study on sources and uses of  study successfully completed
Social         funds
Expenditure
new program budgeting for social and
economic sector development operationalized
Note: Project restructuring in mid-1992 makes comparisons with original indicators less relevant
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
The Project consisted of studies and analytical pieces.



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
(USS$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total
TOTAL        31.4        9.9        41.3        34.4        3.3        37.7
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
(US$million)
Local     Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign     Total
LBRD             18.1        9.9        28.0      24.1       3.3       27.4
Government       13.3         -         13.3      10.3        -        10.3
TOTAL        31.4        9.9        41.3      34.4       3.3       37.7
Note: Government's expected contribution of US$10 million equivalent in work provided
by line staff and support services could not be quantified, but was substantial.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
n.a.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Condition              Loan Document            Compliance Date
Signing
- Presidential Decree authorizing Loan  7.01                            February 1989
signing
Effectiveness
- Borrower shall enter into management    6.01, a)                       January 1989
service contracts
- PCU established and staffed         6.01, b); 3.05, a)                 January 1989
- Action to permit procurement according   6.01, c)                      January 1989
to Bank guidelines
- execution units established and staffed    3.07, a), b); 6.01, d)      January 1989
- Establish roles and relations between  6.01, e)                        January 1989
PCU and executing agencies
- Man. serv. contracts authorized     6.02, a)                           January 1989
- Separate accounting, reporting and  4.01, a), b), c)            January/March 1989
auditing arrangements
-PCU's functions, management          3.01, b), c)                       January 1989
-Arrangements with contracting and    3.02, a), b)               February/ March 1989
procurement agent
Other
- Staffing and contracting conditions  3.09 b), c)                        March 1989
- Progress reporting arrangements     3.06 a), b)                       October 1989
- Annual action plans                 3.03                              October 1989
- Bank review of studies, TOR, final  3.04 a)                        March/April 1989
docs., implementation               Schedule 1, Para. 4              December 1991
- Inter-sectoral committees establ.; their   3.08              September/October 1989
composition and functions agreed



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
n.a.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
Stage                                                                      Total
FY   87   88    89    90    91    92    93    94            95
Preparation    3.8  89.8                                                    93.6
Appraisal          11.0                                                     11.0
Negotiations       3.0   5.5     =      =      =_==                 =_      8.5
Supervision              45.2   38.4  52.9  36.0  25.0   10.0   8.0    206.5
Midterm                                       12.0                          12.0
Review
TOTAL         _                                                            331.9



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/   No. of Persons and    S/W in   Perf.    Type of
year      Specialty *          field *    Rating   problem
Status
ID/Preparation        5/87    2 (MS)                   3
Preappraisal          11/87    14                     35
Appraisal             4/88    7 (E,F.HS,E.M.O)         6
Post-Appraisal        5/88    4 (E,H,2 0)
Subtotal                                             44
Supervisions
I            9/88    8 (F,H,30,ES,L)          14        3        L
II            4/89    4 (F,E,M,00              4        2         L
III           6/89    7 (F,H,ES,M,2 0,W)      21         2      FMTLP
IV            11/89    5 (F,H,ES,M, 10 0)      10        3       FMT
V             6/90    7 (F,E,H,ES,M, 2 0)     21        3        FMT
VI            10/90    2 (F,H)                 6         3       FMTL
VII           11/90    6 (F,E,H,ES, L,0)       18        3       FMTL
VIII           7/91    5 (F,H,ES,M,0)           8        3        MT
IX            12/91    4 (F,H,ES,M,0)          8         2        T
X             6/92    4 (F,H,M,O)              4        1
XI            11/92    4 (F,H,M,O)             4         1
XII           6/93    3 (F,H,M)                3         1
Subtotal                                            121
(196 sw total)
Midterm              2-3/92                            6
Evaluation
Total                                          127
Implementation
* E= economist; P= planner; F= financial analyst; H= health specialist; W= welfare
specialist; ES= education specialist; M= management specialist; O= operations; L=
legal ** 1= problem-free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3= major
problems *** 1= improving; 2= stationary; 3= deteriorating



APPENDIX 1
26
PROGRAMA NACIONAL DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA      -
PARA LA ADMINISTRACION DE LOS SERVICIOS SOCIALES EN LA ARGENTINA
BIRF 2984 - AR                                  PNUD ARG / 88 / 005
Tte. Gral. J. 0. PERON  315 - p. 1l                        Tel. 334  3864/ 3825 / 38S
1394 Buenos Aires - Argentina                              Fax 334- 3869
ARGENTINA
PROGRAMA DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA A LOS SECTORES SOCIALES
Pr6stamo 2984 - AR, PNUD 88/005
Misi6n de Supervisi6n - Evaluaci6n final-del 29 de agosto al 9
de Septiembre
La mision  del Sefior Jos6  Andreu cumpli6  a plena satisfacci6n
sus trabajos y agradece la cooperaci6n prestada por la Unidad
de  Coordinaci6n  y  los sectores  participantes.       La  misi6n
sostuvo reuniones con los LMinistros, Secretarios de Estado,
coordinadores  y personal de  las unidades  de ejecuci6n de los
subproyectos.      Asimismo   la   mision  se   entrevist6   con
representantes de la Auditoria General de  la Naci6n, particip6
de la  Reuni6n Tripartita -Cancilleria, PNUD y UCP-, y tuvo una
reuni6n final  con el Subsecretario  General de la  Presidencia
en representaci6n del Secretario General y Director Nacional
del PRONATASS.
EJECUCION DESDE EL 1  DE JULIO DE 1993 HASTA  EL 30 DE JUNIO DE
1 9 9 4
La misi6n constat6 la exitosa terminaci6n de los subproyectos
de Salud, Seguridad Social, Educaci6n, Trabajo  y Mlinisterio de
Economia.
Quedaron  con tareas  pendientes los  subproyectos  de INDEC  Y
SAIJ debido al corte prematuro del  Prestamo, cuyos deseinbolsos
se terminaron seis meses antes de lo previsto.
No tuvieron los resultados esperados los proyectos de Acci6n
Social y Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n del Mlinisterio de
Salud.
La  MHisi6n constat6  que,  afortunadamente, el  seguimiento  de
varios de los componentes del subproyecto de Salud -Hospitales
de autogesti6n, recursos humanos y sistemas de informaci6n-
serA   financiado  con   prestamos  y   donaciones   del  Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo.



27
PROGRAMA NACIONAL OE ASISTENCIA TECNICA
PARA LA ADMINISTRACION DE LOS SERVICIOS SOCIALES EN LA ARGENTINA
6IRF 2984 - AR                                 PNUO ARG / 88 / 005
Tte. Gral. J. 0. PERON  315 - p. t'                        Tel. 334 -3864/ 38E5  3868
1394 Buenos Aires - Argentina                              Fax 334 - 3869
EVALUACION DE SUBPROYECTOS
La  mision  discuti6   en  detalle  los  informes  finales   de
evaluacion interna y  externa de todos  los subproyectos.   Las
evaluaciones   externas   fuero n   realizadas    por   agencias
especializadas  del   PNUD  y   por  expertos   internacionales
individuales .
ESTADOS FINANCIEROS DEL PROYECTO
Del  total de USS  28 inillones del Pr6stamo,  qued6 Lin saldo no
ejecutado  de USS 570,000  que representa  el 2%.   Los estados
financieros correspondientes apareceran en el Ap6ndice 5 del
informe de evaluaci6n final del Banco.
AUDITORIA
Se recibi6  el  informe de  auditoria exterria  de la  Auditoria
General de  la Nacion  correspondiente  al anio  199.3, donde  se
constat6 la positiva aplicacion de procedimientos  por parte de
la UCP como en anos anteriores.   La AGEN acord6 llevar a  cabo
la auditoria de 1994 en Noviembre/Diciembre de este aho.
INFORmIE FINAL DE EVALUACION
La misi6n  se comprometi6  a terminar stu informe  de evaluaci6n
antes de fines  de setiembre.  El  informe, previa disc.tsio6r en
el Barico, sera enviado  al Gobierno  para SUS comentarios.   El
Gobierno a  sti vez hara SU propia evaluaci6n final del proyecto
a inas tardar a mediados de Octubre.



28
PROGRAMA NACIONAL OE ASISTENCIA TECNICA
PARA LA ADMINISTRACION DE LOS SERVICIOS SOCIALES EN LA ARGENTINA
BIFF 2984 - AS                                  PNUO ARG / 88 I 005
Tte. Gral. J. 0. PERON  315 - p  il                         Tel. 334 - 3864 / 3865 / 3868
1394 Buenos Aires - Argentina                               Fax 334 - 3869
CIERRE DE LA UCP
La  UCP  transferira   sut documentaci6n  y  equipamniento  a  la
Secretaria General de la Presidencia de la Naci6n en Diciembre
de este ano.  El Banco 'Mundial aprueba para realizar las tareas
contables de cierre, en mantener durante el mes de febrero de
1995 a la contadora del PRONATASS y a la asistente contable para
poder concluir  las  tareas  de  auditoria y cierre  final  del
pr-oyecto en el PNUD y la Subsecretaria de Admninistraci6n de la
Secretaria General de la Presidencia.
Ana Ja--Eiam.llo                         Jose' Andreu
Coordina ora                          Jefe ,ie MHisi6n
PRONATASS                             Banco Mundial
Buenos Aires, 9 de Setiembre de 1994






29
Appendix 2
BORROWER'S REPORT
(Translated from Spanish)
1.    ORIGIN
The PRONATASS has its origin in 1985, as a result of a World Bank mission headed
by Kutlay Ebiri who hired three Argentinean consultants: Hector Dieguez, Atilio
Elizagaray and Ana Jaramillo. The mission produced a diagnosis which was
published in the Bank under the title, "Argentina: Social Sectors in Crisis".
The results of the diagnosis basically deternined the inefficiency of the public social
expenditure, the poor quality of the services, and the lack of equity in accessing them.
2.    PROJECT DESIGN
Work began in 1987 with a PPF to design an inter-sectoral project addressing the
afore-mentioned problems brought out by the diagnosis. Said project was financed by
a US$28 million Bank loan for five ministries and nine secretariats.
Project coordination was headed by Atilio Elizagaray who carried out the design and
the institutional organization of the early executing units, such as the agreements with
UNDP and some specialized agencies.
3.    THE LOAN
The Loan was declared effective in 1989 a year and a half after it was designed and
negotiated. It financed technical assistance, including training and equipment. The
possibility of financing the design of investment projects for social areas was
incorporated through amendments to the loan document in later years.
4.    THE CONTEXT
The political context was not the most beneficial for the project since, in the same
year it was declared effective, there was a change of government due to President
Alfonsin's resignation. As a consequence, this unexpected situation produced a
period of political-institutional indecisions which prevented the prompt execution of
the project.
On March 1990, the Menem Govermnent proposed changes to the PRONATASS by
placing Ana Jaramillo, who had participated in project preparation, in charge of
coordination. Atilio Elizagaray was kept as sub-coordinator with the intention of
maintaining as much as possible, continuity in project execution.



30
5.    THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORM
In that first year, political measures were adopted aiming to produce a fundamental
economic reform, such as the re-definitions and guidelines to make the Public Social
Expenditure more effective. Among the most important political measures and
guidelines that were defined are: the federalization of the public social expenditure,
the administrative decentralization of the social sectors, the creation of systems of
social benefits with participation from the private sector and the non-governmental
organizations, the elimination of hidden subsidies to the higher income groups, the
quantitative and qualitative restructuring of the social ministries in accordance with
their new roles, the professional training of personnel and those in leading posts in the
Government, and the prioritization of social investment reflected in the allocation of
resources. Such measures aimed to resolve the problems of lack of equity,
inefficiency, poor quality of social services, and the obsolescence of human, physical
and administrative resources after decades of disinvestment.
These guidelines in social policy, among other measures of structural adjustment such
as deregulation, administrative decentralization, privatization, the elimination of fiscal
deficit, the reduction of public expenditure and the Convertibility Plan, would
complement a model of economic reforms that could free the country from its
stagnation.
6.    THE REFORMULATION OF PRONATASS
The original design of PRONATASS was very ambitious not only with regard to the
number of executing agencies (five ministries and nine secretariats) and the number of
sub-projects, which reached 42, but also to finance the establishment of the
administrative units needed to be able to implement the sub-projects. Since the
assumption of the new coordinating unit and from 1991, the project were restructured
in the important aspects of organization and management, including total delegation of
its decision-making to the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in order to facilitate
contracting and daily duties. It could be said that only from that moment on the
project began to move rapidly.
7.    THE COUNTERPART
Another difficulty faced by the project was the absence in the country of a federal
agency which could have had, among its assignments and functions, the coordination
of social policy. Thus, the National Project Director never had among its duties or
assignments, the specific task of PRONATASS. It started under the direction of the
Secretary of Economy, later on the Secretary of Economic Coordination, followed by
the Secretary of External Financing, then the Secretary of Finance, and finally, under
the direction of the Secretary General of the Presidency. This situation reflected a
lack of central support or interest at the central governmental level, with the sectoral
ministries remaining as the real counterparts although fragmented by the interests of
each of the sub-projects in their respective areas, thus reducing the inter-sectoral
impact it could have had. Such absence was corrected only in part by the
multisectoral team formed in the PCU consisted of all the coordinators proposed by
the different Secretaries of the State.



31
8.    PROGRAM COMPONENTS
Finally, the following Ministries and Secretariats remained in the Program [Project],
including those financed later on by a Japanese Grant:
1.  Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services
1.1   Secretariat of Economy
1.2   Secretariat of Finance
1.3   Secretariat of Programming (INDEC)
1.4 Secretariat of International Affairs (INAC)
2.  Ministry of Justice
2.1   Secretariat of Justice
3.  Ministry of Culture and Education
3.1   Secretariat of Education
4.  Ministry of Labor and Social Security
4.1   Secretariat of Labor
4.2   Secretariat of Social Security
5.  Ministry of Health and Social Action
5.1   Secretariat of Health
5.2   Secretariat of Social Action
5.3   Secretariat of Health Administration
5.4   Secretariat of Technical Cooperation
9.    MANAGEMENT CRITERIA
1.  Every six months, the Secretariats had to submit their plans of action,
ratified by the Secretaries and approved by the PCU and the Bank, where
the terms of reference, equipment contracting, trips and per diems were
programmed.
2.  Any expenditure or contract request had to be signed by the Secretary and
approved by the PCU.
3.  Contracting of head consultants and coordinators had to be approved by
the Bank.
4.  Payments were made against a final report approved by the Secretary and
the PCU.
5.  The Bank carried out supervision missions every six months.
6.  The Comptroller's Office (Tribunal de Cuentas) audited the annual
accounts as external auditor approved by the Bank. This is an essential
procedure to initiate the disbursements.



32
7.  Disbursements were made directly from the Bank to the UNDP.
8.  The UNDP assumed the responsibility of signing contracts, paying
purchase orders, trips and per diems. At the same time, it carried out the
annual auditing through an independent auditor.
9.  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must request all contracts from the
UNDP, since it is the latter's legal counterpart.
10. The PCU performs all administrative tasks and technical monitoring, such
as:
- Budget execution
- Disbursements
- Accounting
- Dealing with audits
- Payment of fees
- Trips and per diems (requests and accountability)
- Contracting (monitoring, approval and awarding)
- Price comparisons
- Public bids
- Purchases
- Publishing
- Important technical monitoring of all program products and reports
- Internal auditing
10.   DIFFICULTIES
Throughout the five years under the present coordination, there were several
difficulties that were overcome and could serve as lessons for the future:
1.  When documents were signed by the Secretary of Economy and the
General Coordinator, the slowness in signing the contracts resulted in
significant delay in administration and control, and it also created serious
difficulties in terms of execution time. This was overcome by delegating
the signing.
2.  The UNDP, which administered a great number of projects, quite often
experienced lengthy delays in administration, which were overcome to a
certain degree, by establishing fast communication mechanisms and
standard information systems.
3.  Making disbursements directly to the UNDP prevented the Comptroller's
Office from getting the original documents on the origin of the funds,
resulting in the latter's abstention from making the audit report. This
could be resolved by making the disbursements to a special account in the
Banco Nacion or the Central Bank. It was difficult to use this mechanism
during the initial period of PRONATASS, but it could be used now. Due



33
to this difficulty, the Comptroller's Office was performing essentially an
operational auditing, abstaining to report on the origin of the funds.
4.  The continuous changes of the political-institutional authorities throughout
the Program complicated the normal development of the Program, and
produced delays until the new authorities became acquainted with the
Project.
The political-institutional instability is shown by the fact that during that
period, six Ministers, seven Labor Secretaries and seven Social Security
Secretaries were changed. The Secretariat of Justice became a Ministry,
and seven Secretaries/Ministers and seven Undersecretaries/Secretaries
were changed. There were three Directors of INDEC, five Ministers and
six Secretaries of Education, nine Ministers and nine Secretaries of Health
and 11 Secretaries of Social Action. There were also seven Ministers of
Economy.
5.  However, the inter-sectoral feature of the Program, so rich and productive
in the area of social policies, complicated its execution and
administration. It required great flexibility on the part of coordination, as
well as a clear technical and political authority in order to be able to
maintain simultaneous and continuous relations with other authorities.
6.  The delimitation of responsibilities and attributes were not clear at the
beginning, which created management difficulties. It was possible to
overcome such delimitation and criteria on attributes and organizational
functiones.
7.  The technical monitoring of such diverse objectives was very difficult
without a team of high level generalist and sectoral specialists. Such team
did not exist at the beginning, but it was established in 1990, thus making
it possible to carry out sectoral and inter-sectoral coordination tasks.
8.  The nonexistence of private consulting firms dedicated to social policies
made it necessary to contract individual consultants in most of the sub-
projects carried out by the Ministries. This situation resulted in very few
bids being called for competitive bidding; but as a by-product,
professional teams were formed during project execution and many of
them became consulting firms.
9.  The nonexistence of a political-institutional counterpart such as a Social
Planning Secretariat or an Advisory Board on Social Policies made it
difficult to transfer to the Government a PRONATASS acting as an inter-
sectoral program with all its experiences in inter-sectoral social policies.



34
11.   PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS BY SECRETARIAT AND PROJECTS
SOCIAL ACTION: I) Children and family protection: restructuring of the
institutional treatment system and training in new techniques; establishment of a
demonstrative project of new rehabilitation policies; administrative restructuring of the
CNPMF. II) Strengthening of youth groups: agreements with provinces to promote
youth micro undertakings; organization of Training Workshops for young people
involved in micro undertakings in the provinces. III) Social investment fund:
preparation of a FIS project; survey of available financing sources for social
promotion projects. IV) Executing Unit of the Federal Solidarity Program
(PROSOL): creation of the Executing Unit; preparation of guidelines for the
organization of projects, and training programs for the implementation of productive
projects.
EDUCATION: Participation in the evaluation of projects for the refonn of the
Federal Education Law; studies to support the Federal Education Law; studies to
support the redefinition of the structure and function of the Ministry; preparation of
diagnosis and forecasts for the educational infrastructure; studies on Evaluation for the
Improvement of the University Quality; preparation on improvement and evaluation of
quality in education; work on improvement and updating of teaching; studies on
modernization of technical education.
FINANCE: Preparation of manuals on physical and financial budget methodology for
Government agencies and National Universities; preparation of a manual on rules and
procedures for the physical and financial programming of the budget execution
process; design and methodology to complete the consolidated budget of the Non-
financial Public Sector; training courses for Government officials on budget
formulation and execution; participation in drafting laws and in the transfer of
educational, hospital and social action services to the provinces and to the
Municipality of Buenos Aires.
SOCIAL SECURITY: System of nominative contributions, optimization of social
security collection and updating of assets database; optimization of the Social Security
Collection Databank; system to initialize and follow-up judicial trials, inspection of
large companies and control and follow-up of collections; unification and
generalization of the beneficiary grant system; diagnosis of the social security system
in effect until 1993; comparative analysis of social security systems; design of a new
social security system; draft of the social security law; design of the entity for the
supervision of private companies incorporated into the new social security system.
LABOR: Support and advice on the preparation of the national employment law and
regulatory decrees; development of statistical information to define employment
policies; proposal for the organization of the national temporary employment
program; technical assistance for the identification and clearing process of non-
registered employment; technical assistance for the definition and implementation of a
new collective bargaining policy; advisory services in the preparation of legal norms
and rules and regulations on collective bargaining; definition of a framework
methodology to measure productivity and for the preparation of contracts linking
productivity and salaries.



35
INDEC: Securing a roadmap on the supply and demand of statistical information by
sector; preparation of a set of systemic proposals to establish firm bases for the
installation of a Statistical System, federal in scope; formalization of rights and
obligations through agreements entered into between INDEC, the national sector
ministries and the provinces; innovation and transfer of techno-methodology resulting
from the organization of a systematically integral "product" delivered to the provinces
(procedures, data collection processes, standards, networks, documentation,
application software, equipment, installation, training and legal framework).
SAIJ: Updating of information technology: equipment and software were replaced,
and complementary equipment was incorporated for the Direct Information Centers,
equipment and software were acquired for the network of information suppliers;
updating of documentary technology; expansion of services; internal restructuring;
development of suppliers network.
HEALTH: Technical assistance for the hospital decentralization process; preparation
of a National Health Promotion and Protection Program; development of the
Municipal Investment Project and identification of the Greater Buenos Aires
Investment Project; institutional-functional design of the nation's Health Secretariat;
design of alternative models for Management and Control System of the Health
Secretariat; creation of the National Quality Guarantee Program on medical attention;
information system organization for the technical area of the Health Secretariat;
design and implementation of the National Administration of Drugs, Foodstuff and
Medical Technology; creation of the National Pharmaceutical Monitoring System;
strengthening of the management capacity of the Health Secretariat's Human
Resources Directorate; technical assistance for the development of common actions
with the Association of Medical Science Faculties of Argentina; design of the
Maternal, Child Health and Nutrition project.
12.   UNEXPECTED PRODUCTS
The Program did not foresee many of the products it succeeded to achieve. Three of
them which must be singled out, relate to technology transfer, which is nonexistent in
the country in the inter-sectoral field of social policies.
1.  The course on Training in Planning and Management of Social Policies
financed by a Japanese Grant which supported the Program, where
PRONATASS experience was useful. The first course relied on the
participation of the Government and the University of Buenos Aires, and
was attended by students from the provinces during one year, succeeding
in training highly qualified human resources. This career was later
established and incorporated into the Social Sciences Faculty of the
University of Buenos Aires, which will produce more graduates.
2.  The incorporation into PRONATASS of individual experts, added to the
professionalization of the political posts as part of the government policy.
Many former consultants are now Secretaries and National Directors in
several government areas, as well as officials with very high political
responsibilities.



36
In turn, the experts working as part of a team have become individual
consultants or joined finns, which previously was non-existent in the
social areas.
3.  Another outcome is the establishment of the First Documentation Center
with more than four thousand reports on all social policy subjects. Said
Center is consulted by numerous institutional and individual users in the
Government, academic institutions, universities, students, experts,
consultants and by authorities from all the provinces. Said Center will be
transferred to the Presidency of the Nation, and to the Documentation
Center of the Ministry of Economy.
13.   DIFFUSION
Given the characteristics of the Technical Assistance Program for the policy on
diffusion, the PCU defined the following criteria:
1.  Carried out only institutional technical diffusion policy, leaving the
political diffusion to the political-institutional authorities who executed the
projects.
2.  Produced two types of publications:
a)    Publication of reports with substantive content which the political
authority considered important for its area.
b)    News bulletins on project progress.
3.  Qualified diffusion:
Due to the program characteristics, diffusion was not supposed to be
massive, but available to qualified addressees [audience]. It was directed
to all authorities in the Executive and Legislative branches with
competence in the social areas, all universities in the country devoted to
social sciences, church authorities, international organizations, non-profit
organizations devoted to social policies, and periodical publications
specialized in social subjects.
4.  Creation of a Documentation Center. More than 4,000 reports submitted
by consultants have been systematized and organized in the
Documentation Center which is consulted by researchers, legislators and
interested authorities. Said Center will be transferred to the Government
at the closing of PRONATASS. The following is being enclosed:
- List of publications
- Three publications containing the list of reports
- Bulletins with monthly news
- Mailing to addressees



37
5.  List of Publications:
COORDINATION UNIT:
- Social Planning.
- Reports, Diagnosis, Proposals and Projects on Social Reform. Vol. I, II
and III.
- Age minority in Argentina.
- Minors in Danger - Pilot Project.
- Planning and Management of Social Policies. Postgraduate career.
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL SECURITY
SECRETARIAT OF SOCIAL SECURITY
- Diagnosis of the Program on Family Allowances.
- National System of Social Security: its Evolution and Situation at the
End of the 80s.
- Social Security System of Independent Workers.
- Inequities in the existing National System of Social Security.
- Distribution Mechanisms of ANSSAL.
- Origin and Treatment of the SNPS Debts with the Beneficiaries:
1980/1993.
- Social Security Coverage for Rural Workers.
- Analysis of the Labor Market and its Future Projection.
SECRETARIAT OF LABOR
- Diagnosis of Unemployment and Seasonal Work in Argentina.
- Recommendations on Employment Policies.
- Structure of Unions and Collective Bargaining in Argentina.
- Internal Differentiation of Wage Earners in Greater Buenos Aires.
- Poverty: Social and Employment Policies.
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
SECRETARIAT OF ECONOMY
- The Public Social Expenditure: Vol. I and II.
- Education Sector: Vol. III.
- Education Sector (Annexes): Vol. III A.
- Health Sector: Vol. IV.
- Nutrition and Social Promotion Sector: Vol. V.
- Housing Sector: Vol. VI.
- The Practice of Cooperating. Manual for Labor Cooperatives.
- Labor Cooperatives: Some Elements for their Analysis.
SECRETARIAT OF FINANCE
- Manual of Rules for Government Budget Formulation for 1993.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS AND CENSUS (INDEC)
- Education Statistics - Result Series No. 1.
- General System for the Processing of Information from the Education
Sector - Methodologies Series No. 1.
- Synthesis of Education Statistics.



38
- Provincial Workshops for the Improvement of Vital Statistics and
Registry Office.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
SECRETARIAT OF EDUCATION
- Quality of Education.
- University Quality and Evaluation.
- Evaluation for the Improvement of University Quality.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL ACTION
SECRETARIAT OF HEALTH
- INDEC - Survey on Utilization and Expenditure in Health Services:
Vol. I.
- Methodological Aspects: Vol. II.
- Expenditure in Home Health (1989) - Comparative Data: Vol. III.
- Epidemiology Information System. EPIINFO 5.0 Program. Guide for
the User.
- Manual for the Student of the Introductory Course on Database IV.
- System to Evaluate the Occupational Origin in Hospital Expenses.
- Training in General Medicine.
- Research on the Social Bases of Health Expenditure.
- Survey on Utilization and Expenditure in Health Services: Vol. I and
II.
- Oral traumatisms.
SECRETARIAT OF SOCIAL ACTION
- Diagnosis on the Present Situation. Actions and Programs of the
National Council of the Minor and the Family.
- Training Manual in the Formulation and Evaluation of Investment
Microprojects.
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
SECRETARIAT OF JUSTICE
- Juridical Document Information in Argentina.
- The Argentinean Juridical System.



39
Apnendix 3
ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
OBJETIVIO DE DESARROLLO DEL PROGRAMA
Mejorar sustancialmente la prestaci6n y cobertura de los servicios
soci.les, de acuerdo con las posibilidades presupuestarias y las
prioridades establecidas por el Gobierno Nacional, con el objeto de
asegurar crecientes niveles de bienestar a todos los habitantes del pais.
Para lograr este objetivo se preve: i) fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n
del Estado en la prestaci6n de los servicios relacionados con los Sectores
de Salud, Accion Social, Educaci6n. Justicia y Seguridad Social, ii)
aumentar su eficiencia y iii) mejorar el acceso a esos servicios de los
sectores mais necesitados de la poblaci6n.
PROYECTO: SECRETARIA DE SALLTD
SUBPROYECTO 1: Descentralizaci6n de hospitales
Descentralizar los hospitales nacionales para adecuarlos a las
necesidades y demandas de la poblaci6n. dotandolos de la capacidad
gerencial suficiente e insertandolos en una red de servicios.
USS 1.530.800
SUBPROYECTO 2: Sistema de Informaci6n de Salud
Proveer productos informativos orientados al mejoramiento de la
capacidad de gesti6n del sector salud, mediante la deeerminaci6n de
necesidades emergentes de las politicas y objetivos establecidos. asi
como el desarrollo, compatibilizaci6n e integraci6n de sistemas de
informaci6n para satisfacer los requerimientos especificos de los
distintos niveles del sector.
USS 1.297.100
SUBPROYECTO 3: Relaci6n INOS-Secretaria de Salud
Establecer un sistema que permita dar cobertura de atenci6n de salud
equitativa y eficiente a toda la poblaci6p. A travis de: la mejora
en la calidad de los servicios (acreditaci6n), la garantia de equidad
de los servicios que prestan las Obras Sociales (prestaciones
obligatorias). la normatizaci6n de las formas de contrataci6n
(modalidades de contrataci6n) y la propuesra de mecanismos de
ampliaci6n de cobertura a personas no cubiertas por la Seguridad
Sqcial.
US 1.158.000
SUBPROYECTO 4: Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos
Desarrollar una politica de recursos humanos que racionalice la
formaci6n y utilizaci6n de este recurso para lograr personal de salud
de alta calidad, plenamente ocupado y con adecuado equilibrio entre
los distintos niveles de formaci6n profesional, tecnico y auxiliar.
USS 4.321.400



40
PROYECTO: SECRETARIA DE DESARROLLO HU'MANO Y FAMILIA
SUBPROYECTO 1: Apoyo al Sistema de Informaci6n Base
Crear. en el ambito de la Secretaria de Desarrollo Humano y Familia,
un sistema permanente de informaci6n base, capaz de alimentar los
circuitos de informaci6n del sistena de conducci6n, formulaci6n y
evaluaci6n de politicas y asentado en la articulaci6o  de acciones
propias y en la coordinaci6n con otras instancias gubernamentales
(MSAS. INDEC, provincias. municipios, etc.) y no gubernamentales.
USS 559.700
SUBPROYECTO 2: Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad de Gesti6n
MSodernizar la estructura y funciones de la SDHF de manera que se
constituya en un organismo con alcance y cobertura nacional, de alta
capacidad tecnica y de gesti6n y capaz de monitorear las condiciones
y situaci6n de los individuos. la familia y la comunidad en relaci6n
a sus posibilidades de desarrollo personal y social.
USS 525,500
SUBPROYECTO 3: Fortalecimiento de la Presencia Nacicnal y de la
Articulaci6n Sectorial
Generar respuestas institucionales apropiadas que estimulen y
coordinien la participaci6n de los diversos sectores y actores
sociales concurrentes, en la formulaci6n, planificacion y ejecuci6n
de politicas de desarrollo humano v familia, posibilitando la
descencralizaci6n y la transferencia de recursos y programas a los
nrveles locales y regionales.
U$S 219.800
SUBPROYECTO 4: Apoyo al Desarrollo de Tecnologias sociales innovadoras de
potencial alto impacto y replicabilidad
Promover el,desarrollo e implementaci6n de tecnologias socialps
costo-efectivas y con posibilidades 'de replicaci6n que cohtribuvan a
modificar el perfil de la demanda y su satisfacci6n. apoyando las
iniciativas de la poblaci6n, la investigaci6n-acci6n y la
capacitaci6n de los recursos humanos del irea y de la comunidad en
torno a estas alternativas innovadoras de la oferta.
U$S 525.800
PROYECTO:  SECRETARIA DE COORDINACION DE SALUD Y ACCION SOCIAL
Fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n de la UTnidad Ministro y la
Secretaria de Coordinaci6n de Salud y Acci6n Social a efectos de
aumentar la eficiencia en la instrumentaci6n de la Politica Nacional
en Salud y Acci6n Social.



41
PROYECTO: SECRETAMRIA DE SEGTRIDAD SOCIAL
SUBPROYECTO 1:  Gesti6n de Recaudaci6n Previsional
Mejorar la recaudaci6n previsional, mediante el reordenamiento de los
esquemas organizativos. la tecnificaci6n de las funciones y la
optimizaci6n de los mecanismos de control.
USS 1.303.500
SUBPROYECTO 2: Gesti6n de Beneficios Previsionales
Adecuar los mecanismos tecnico-administrativos que optimicen el
Sistema Nacional de Previsi6n, unificando las actividades sustantivas
y de apoyo que demanda la gesti6n previsicnal.
U$S 345.600
SUBPROYECTO 3: Modelos Macroecon6micos de la Previsi6n Social
Determinar un sistema jubilatorio factible desde el punto de vista
del financiamiento satisfactorio desde las aspiraciones de la
colectividad social, y arm6nicamente inserto en el marco de la
planificaci6n global.
USS 347.700
PROYECTO: SECRETARIA DE TRABAJO
Fortalecer al Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social en su
capacidad para generar politicas y acciones concretas que tengan por
finalidad contribuir a la atenci6n del desempleo y a la
regularizaci6n de las situaciones de trabajo precario en el contexto
de la reestructuraci6n productiva, y asistirlo en la reorganizacion
de funciones y de modalidades de gesti6n en las areas - ya existentes
o por crearse - que tengan a su cargo tales politicas y acciones.
PROYECTO: INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ESTADISTICAS Y CENSO
Lograr informaci6n sociodemografica en corto, mediano y largo plazo.
mediante un sistema de informaci6n intersectorial que asegure la
oportunidad, cobertura y calidad de la misma. que facilite la
evaluaci6n de politicas. planes y programas globales y sectoriales
emprendidos preponderantemente por el Estado.
Evaluaci6n y monitoreo de la evoluci6n estadistica de los sectores
intervinientes en comparaci6n con el sistema propuesto.
PROYECTO: GASTO PUBLICO EN LOS SECTORES SOCIALES
Elaborar criterios de decisi6n y m4todos operativos generales para el
planeamiento, el financiamiento, la asignaci6n de recursos, la
presupuestaci6n. la ejecuci6n y la evaluaci6n del gasto p6blico en
los sectores sociales. Tales criterios y metodos deberan orientarse
asimismo a mejorar: (1) la especificaci6n de objetivos y
destinatarios del gasto; (2) la eficiencia de los costos incurridos
respecto de los objetivos alcanzados; y (3) la adecuaci6n de los
programas respecto de los objetivos propuestos.



42
PROYECTO: SECRETARIA DE JUSTICIA
SUBPROYECTO 1: Ampliaci6n de Usuarios
Realizar una expansi6n externa dirigida a obtener a una mavor
dimensicn de usuarios integrados al Sistema Argentino de Informatica
Juridica, tanto en el sector publico como en el sector privado del
pais.
SUBPROYECTO 2:  Redimensionamiento Interno
Diseniar una nueva estructura funcional y organica de la planta
interna acorde con las nuevas exigencias del Sistema Argentino de
Informatica Juridica.
PROYECTO: SECRETARIA DE EDUCACION
SUBPROYECTO:  Redefinici6n de la Estructura y funciones del Ministerio de
Educaci6n y Justicia v sus relaciones con las instancias provinciales.
Fortalecer el proceso de adecuaci6n de las funciones y de la
estructura a las alternativas futuras de desarrollo del Ministerio de
Educaci6n y Justicia, definiendo las capacidades institucionales y
los sistemas operacionales necesarios para cumplir funciones hasta
ahora poco desarrolladas. para adaptarse a cambios significativos en
la distribuci6n de la prestaci6n de servicios eon las jurisdicciones.
para contar con los mecanismos de coordinaci6n que aseguren la
articulaci6n del sistema educativo en todo el territorio nacional y
para la articulaci6n del sistema educativo en todo el territorio
nacional y para contribuir al estudio de la situaci6n actual y a la
ampliaci6n de la capacidad de gesti6n de las administraciones
provinciales. de la Capital Federal y del Territorio Nacional de
Tierra del Fuego e Islas del Atlantico Sur.
,SUBPROYECTO:  Disefio y ptesta a prueba del Sis'veeda de Informaci6n
Estadistica Socioeducativa
Disponer del diagn6stico del sistema de informaci6n estadistica
actualmente existente.
General el disefio de un sistema de informaci6n socioeducativa apoyado
en un marco conceptual v metodol6gico que inscriba a los servicios de
Estadistica Educativa en la unidad organica funcional que corresponda
a la importancia de sus funciones. permitiendo la incorporaci6n de
nuevas areas de informaci6n.
Promover el remodelamiento de la red de informaci6n de estadisticas
socioeducativas, sectorial e intersectoriales.
Fortalecer la capacitaci6n de los agentes que intervienen en la
diferentes fases de la elaboraci6n de informacion estadistica para
mejorar los procesos inherentes a esta producci6n.
Identificar las demandas 'de los diversos usuarios del sistema
(efectivos y potenciales) segun nivel de decisi6n que ocupe el
usuario y grado de agregaci6n de la informaci6n requerida.



43
STBPROYECTO: Problemas laborales y relaciones institucionales -
Fortalecimiento de la Subsecretaria de Relaciones Educativas del MEJ
Establecer en el ambito del MEJ, Subsecretaria de Relacicnes
Educativas, la capacidad tecnica-institucional y los sistemas
operacionales para la planificaci6n y ejecuci6n de politicas y
acciones en el area de las relaciones con el personal docente y con
las organizaciones civiles que apoyan material y htumanamente a las
instituciones escolares, en especial las asociaciones cooperrdoras.
SUBPROYECTO: Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n en el nivel medio
Producir cuerpos de conocimientos y metodologias de acci6n que
posibiliten disponer de informaci6n suficiente, valida v confiable
sobre los niveles de calidad que el sistema est6 alcanzando en
relaci6n con sus prop6sitos y sobre las estrategias para la
superaci6n de los deficits.
SUBPROYECTO:  Programa Piloto sobre Tecnologias Educativas y sus efectos
sobre el Aprendizaje (CRA Centros de Recursos para el Aprendizaje)
Desarrollar y evaluar estrategias para la incorporaci6n de las
tecnologias educativas a partir de la consideraci6n de tres ejes
determinantes:
- el curriculum como marco natural de inserci6n e integraci6n de
estas tecnologias:
- su relevancia cultural como objeto de conocimiento y sus
implicancias sociales; y
- sus posibilidades de operar para la transformaci6n del quehacer
educativo.
SUBPROYECTO: Perfeccionamiento y Actualizaci6n de los Docentes de
Educaci6n Media (INPAD)
Perfeccionar y actualizar en 24 meses, el 100% de los docentes del
ciclo basico del pivel medio. en tareas de inserci6n, atendiendo a
las' dimensiones tecnicopedag6gico-social y disciplinhria.
involucradas en la funci6n docente a traves de un sistema que
contempla inslancias a distancia y presenciales para articular la
liomogcneizaci6n necesaria de la informaci6n con la deseable
adecuaci6n a las particularidades regionales.
SUBPROYECTO: Apoyo a la Investigaci6n Educativa
Reestructurar y producir una apertura de funciones en el sector
organico de investigaci6n centrando sus actividades en el diagn6stico
y evaluaci6n de los aspectos socio-culturales. pedag6gicos. tecnicos
y administrativos, coordinando acciones y concertando con v'isi6n
multisectorial la utilizaci6n de los recursos profesionales. tecnicos
y financieros con que cuentan los organismos similares del pais.



44
SLTEPROYECTO:  Apoyo al programa Nacional de Desarrollo Educativo y
Tecnol6gico
Desarrollar y evaluar estrategias para la incorporaci6n de las
tecnologias de la informacion en el marco del aprendizaje innovador,
generando los mecanismos de formaci6n, evaluaci6n y seguimiento que
garanticen una adecuada utilizaci6n pedag6gica del recurso
informatico.



45
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TAL
Original Project Objectives
HEALTH SECTOR: HEALTH SERVICES                         POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY ACTIONS                               TARGET COMPLETION DATE
1.    Health Information System
Establish a Policy Unit of Economic Analysis to examine the costs and
benefits of alternative health policy decisions                      December 31, 1989
Prepare criteria and norms to certify the need for investment in new
hospital construction and in expensive biomedical equipment          December 31, 1989
2.     Decentralization of National Hospitals
Give managerial and financial autonomy to public national hospitals  July 31, 1989
Require management training as a condition for appointing hospital
directors                                                            December 31, 1989
3.     Health Manpower
Establish a national Health Manpower Commission to recommend
policies on professionals to be trained and retrained, with special
emphasis on physicians and nurses                                   July 31, 1990
Develop incentives to correct maldistribution of manpower and to
encourage public and private practice in priority areas             July 31, 1990
4.     Support to INOS
Implement criteria for categorization of hospitals linked to levels of
reimbursement for services provided                                  December 31, 1990
Improve targeting of medical care to reduce by half the number of poor
and medical indigents without medical care coverage                  December 31, 1990
HEALTH SECTOR: WELFARE SERVICES                              POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY ACTIONS                              TARGET COMPLETION DATE
1.    Management of SDHF
Establishment of an economic analysis unit capable of targeting services
to the neediest, budgeting programs and evaluating performance       December 31, 1989
Change SDHF role from service provider mainly in the province of
Buenos Aires to the promotion, coordination, provision of guidelines and
norms, and evaluation of social service programs for the total territory  December 31, 1991
2.     Community Participation
Sign agreements with NGOs for assuming lead role in the organization of
programs for street kids and in the establishment and management of
community centers for human development                             July 31, 1991



46
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TAL
Original Project Objectives
EDUCATION SECTOR: POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY ACTIONS                             TARGET COMPLETION DATE
Creation of Policy Analysis Unit in Office of the Minister to identify and
analyze strategic and policy related issues                         December 31, 1989
Complete study on the functions of MEJ emphasizing its role as
normative and technical instead of service delivery organization    December 31, 1989
Complete a study to examine the status of all federally-owned school
facilities against defined quality standards as a prerequisite for investment
policy decisions                                                    December 31, 1989
Establish policy of budget allocation based on costs, outcomes and
effectiveness of alternative expenditures                           February 28, 1990
Creation of National Educational Information System, incorporating
present Education Statistics entity, plus data from budget, payroll and
other sources into an information system useful for policy decision  July 31, 1991
Phased extension of a national system of educational evaluation and
quality investment                                                  July 31, 1991
Development of a national program of teacher retraining and uses of
audio visual materials to improve the quality of education          July 31, 1991
Complete study of the cost effectiveness of technical education system
and its links with labor markets                                   July 31, 1991
Installation of an assessment capacity to guide resources allocation for
targeting the poor                                                 July 31, 1991



47
SOCIAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT TAL
Original Project Objectives
SOCIAL SECURITY SECTOR: POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY ACTIONS                            TARGET COMPLETION DATE
1.   Organization
December 31, 1990
Develop alternatives to pay-as-you-go pension, invalidity and survivors
(INS) insurance
Propose mechanisms for insuring agreed levels of revenue to satisfy
basic economic needs of beneficiaries while linking revenues and benefits
to macroeconomic conditions                                       December 31, 1990
Develop legal, administrative and economic proposals to maximize length
of minimum time retirement, limit survivors benefits, review special
(privileged) benefit regimes, and link benefits to average salaries and
contributions over the full length of employment period           December 31, 1990
2.   Revenues
Begin close monitoring of: (a) individual and employer contributions
from private and public sector enterprises and agencies; and (b) payment   March, 31, 1990
arrears and payments in default
Apply vigorous administrative and legal measures to enforce revenue
collections                                                       July 31, 1990
Introduce efficiency measures to enhance revenue collections including
staff incentives, streamlined procedures and electronic data processing  July 31, 1990
3.   Benefits
Develop and initiate measures to decentralize decision-making in the  July 31, 1991
distribution of benefits
Introduce measures to unify procedures in defining rights and amount of
benefits                                                          December 31, 1990





















IMAGING
Report No:      14410
Type: ICR



