Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2984 AR
(Social Sector Management Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 23, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2984 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 1989, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MSAS" means Ministerio de Salud y Accion Social, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Health and Social Action;
     (b)  "MEJ" means Ministerio de Educacion y Justicia, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Education and Justice;
     (c)  "MEC" means Ministerio de Economia, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
     (d)  "MTS" means Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social, the Borrowers Ministry 
of Labor and Social Security;
     (e)  "SSC" means Secretaria de Coordinacion of MSAS, the Coordination Secretariat 
of MSAS;
     (f)  "SE" means Secretaria de Educacion, the Borrower's Secretariat of Education;
     (g)  "SEC" means Secretaria de Coordinacion Economica, MEC's Secretariat of 
Economic Coordination;
     (h)  "SCMEJ" means MEJ's Secretaria de Coordinacion Educacional, Cientifica y 
Cultural, MEJ's Coordination Secretariat;
     (i)  "SSS" means Secretaria de Seguridad Social, the Borrower's Social Security 
Secretariat;
     (j)  "ST" means Secretaria de Trabajo, the Borrower's Labor Secretariat;
     (k)  "SJ" means Secretaria de Justicia, the Borrower's Justice Secretariat;
     (l)  "SS" means Secretaria de Salud, the Borrower's Secretariat of Health, within 
MSAS;
     (m)  "SDHF" means Secretaria de Desarrollo Humano y Familia, the Borrower's 
Secretariat of Human Development and Family, within MSAS;
     (n)  "INDEC" means Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censo, the Borrower's 
National Institute of Statistics and Census;
     (o)  "Executing Agencies" means, collectively, all the entities, listed in  the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement as participating in the carrying out  of the 
Project, and "Executing Agency" means any one of them;
     (p)  "Project Coordinating Unit" means the Project coordinating unit referred to 
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (q)  "Project Execution Unit" means each of the units to be established in each 
of the Executing Agencies other than SEC, pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of this 
Agreement;
     (r)  "Management Service Contracts" means the agreements referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreements;
     (s)  "Annual Action Program" means the annual program of actions to be prepared 
and furnished to the Bank by the Borrower through the Project Coordinating Unit 
pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
     (t)  "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which begins on January 
1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
     (u)  "National Project Director" means the Project director referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (v)  "Project Coordinator" means the Project coordinator referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (w)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted 
by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 20, 1987 
Page  3
and December 8, 1987 between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (x)  "INOS" means Instituto Nacional de Obras Sociales, MSAS' National Institute 
of Social Insurance Funds;
     (y)  "Project Execution Program" means the program set forth in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank dated July 1, 1988; and
     (z)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan  Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to twenty eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures  
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required  to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and  
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed
               as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 1 
and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through the Executing Agencies as described in the Annex to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and management practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall establish and maintain in MEC, until the Closing Date, a project 
coordinating unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the following:
          (i)  coordinate the execution of all parts of the Project;
         (ii)  approve the procurement of goods and the selection of, and the
               terms of reference for, the consultants proposed by the
               Executing Agencies;
        (iii)  review of all consultants' reports and provision of feedback to
               the National Project Director, the Executing Agencies and the
               Bank on their content and on the soundness of the consultants'
               recommendations;
         (iv)  prepare annual reports on the progress of the Project; and
          (v)  make all necessary administrative arrangements for the timely
               procurement of goods and hiring of consultants required for the
               Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is at all times 
headed by the Borrower's Secretary of Economic Coordination as National Project 
Director, assisted by a full-time project coordinator with qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,  and by qualified staff in adequate 
numbers.
     (d)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Execution Program.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with an agent or agents acceptable to the Bank, for  
handling contracting of consultants, the procurement of goods and for  arranging 
training activities under the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a manner as  to protect the 
interests of the parties to this Agreement and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank through each 
Executing Agency not later than September 1 of each year, for its review  and 
agreement, an Annual Action Program containing the objectives, activities, 
institutional arrangements and anticipated results of the execution of each  part of 
the Project in the immediately following fiscal year.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out all studies included in the 
Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, unless  the Borrower 
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall include specific  programs or plans of 
action to meet the objectives of the Project; (ii) promptly after the completion of 
each such study, furnish to the Bank copy of its findings and recommendations 
including such programs or plans of action; (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of 
action; and (iv) where appropriate,  and taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon, prepare programs or plans of action to carry out the recommendations of such 
studies.
Page  5
     (b)  The Borrower undertakes to carry out such programs and plans of action as 
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall retain independent experts, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Project  
Coordinating Unit in the review of the terms of reference, progress reports and 
findings and recommendations of the studies carried out under the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, through the Project Coordinating Unit: (i) promptly 
furnish to the Bank a copy of the reports of such experts on each of such studies; and 
(ii) exchange views with the Bank on the contents and recommendations thereof.
     Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall annually, starting not later 
than March 31, 1989 and on each March 31, thereafter, and when requested by either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved by each Executing  Agency in carrying 
out their respective parts of the Project.
     (b)  Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower 
shall, through the Project Coordinating Unit, furnish to the Bank for  its review and 
comment a report on the progress achieved by each Executing  Agency in carrying out 
their respective parts of the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
     Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall establish and maintain in each of the  Executing 
Agencies, until the Closing Date, a Project Execution Unit with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, each such Project Execution Unit to be 
under the direct responsibility of the Secretary in charge of the respective Executing 
Agency and of the Director of INDEC.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Execution Unit is at all times 
headed by a project manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.08. (a) In order to standardize the data, models and practices  of the 
different social sector services, the Borrower shall establish not  later than sixty 
days after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain until the Closing Date, an 
inter-sectoral statistics systems committee, with functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
chaired by a representative of INDEC and composed by the Heads of the Statistics Units 
of the Executing Agencies and a  representative from the Project Coordinating Unit and 
the Under Secretariat of  Information Systems of the Borrower's Secretariat of the 
Public Function, (Secretaria de la Funcion Publica).
     (b)  In order to exchange information and to standardize the equipment and 
software acquired under the Project, the Borrower shall establish not later than sixty 
days after the Effective Date an informatics committee, with functions satisfactory to 
the Bank, headed by the Project Coordinator and  composed by the technical managers of 
the Administrative and Operational Information Systems of each of the Executing 
Agencies.
     (c)  The Borrower, through the Executing Agencies, shall provide, promptly  as 
needed, the staff, facilities and other resources required in the carrying  out of 
their functions by the committees referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section.
     (d)  The Borrower shall, through the Project Coordinating Unit, exchange views 
with the Bank on the activities and recommendations of the committees referred to in 
paragraph (a) and (b) of this Section.
     Section 3.09. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be  financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     (b)  Public servants employed by the Borrower under any kind of administrative 
arrangements (including leave without pay) shall not be eligible for providing 
consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (c) The Borrower shall maintain in the Executing Agencies qualified staff in 
adequate number as counterparts of the consultants employed under the Project.
Page  6
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound   accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including the Executing Agencies) responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than four months after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate opinion  by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower or any other 
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment or the suspension of the operations of any Executing Agency, 
provided, however, that if any event referred to in this paragraph shall affect the 
execution of only part or parts of the Projects and be continuing, the suspension of 
the Borrower's rights to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the 
Bank to the amounts utilized or to be utilized to finance the execution of the Part or 
Parts of the Project affected by such event.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in  Section  
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to the 
Page  7
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower shall have entered into the Management Service Contracts;
     (b)  that the Project Coordinating Unit shall have been established and staffed 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
     (c)  that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement;
     (d)  that a Project Execution Unit shall have been established and staffed in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank by each of the following Executing Agencies: SE, SS, 
SDHF, SSS, SJ and SCMEJ; and
     (e)  that the Borrower has formally established arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank for the role and coordination among the Project Coordinating Unit and the 
Executing Agencies in the carrying out of the Project.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Management Service Contracts have been duly executed and authorized 
or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the parties thereto; and
     (b)  that the action referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this  
Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the Borrower is  required 
for the procurement of goods, works and services in accordance with  the provisions of 
this Agreement.
     Section 6.03. The date May 23, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Ministro de Economia of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia
          Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTERIO ECONOMIA             121952 AR
               Baires
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
Page  8
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                   THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                   By /s/ Daniel Marx
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods                       5,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
(2)  Training and                3,000,000      100% of foreign
     fellowships                                expenditures
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Consultants'               16,000,000      100%
     services
(4)  Refunding of                  750,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                 3,250,000
          TOTAL                 28,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$750,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments 
Page  9
made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1988, and (b) by SSC, ST or 
INDEC until a Project Execution Unit shall  have  been established by the respective 
Executing Dependency as set forth in Section  6.01 (d) of this Agreement.
4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds  of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of $14,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.06 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Project and the attainment of its objectives as set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
5.   If, after the  exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved is not  satisfactory and, 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress 
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to restructure the Borrower's  
administrative apparatus and improve policy-making through the improvement of  legal 
information systems and the development of better analysis and evaluation 
capabilities; (b) to improve the delivery of services through streamlined processes, 
better trained managers and modern information technology; (c) to study the 
feasibility of introducing user charges in order to improve the quality of social 
services and increase the access of the needy to these  services and mobilize 
additional resources through the reorganization of  collection agencies; (d) to target 
social services better through systematic  identification of the needy; and (e) to 
strengthen  project preparation, monitoring and evaluation capacities of the Executing 
Agencies.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Health Services
1.   A program to strengthen the management and delivery of public health  services 
through improving institutional arrangements, health manpower, hospital efficiency and 
access to basic quality services, including: (i) the  execution of studies and pilot 
projects aimed at the establishment of health information systems; (ii) execution of 
studies and surveys and development of management systems at selected national 
hospitals; (iii) execution of studies and programs to improve the utilization and 
education of health personnel; and (iv) a program to strengthen the managerial 
capabilities, information systems, procedures, administration, and services of the 
INOS.
2.   A program to strengthen the management of social welfare services, including: (i) 
the establishment of a welfare information system to provide for  a permanent and 
dynamic data base on the demand and supply of social welfare services; (ii) execution 
of studies to strengthen the organization and management capabilities of SDHF; and 
establishment of a mechanism to integrate information and coordinate activities of 
other agencies providing social services; and (iii) execution of pilot projects on the 
delivery of social  services with low-cost improved technologies and establishment of 
monitoring  and evaluation mechanisms to analyze and replicate such pilot projects.
3.   A program to develop a management information system to enable SSC to  review, 
coordinate and evaluate the programs and projects of MSAS.
Part B:   Education Services
     A program to improve the education sector's decision-making and the  management, 
effectiveness and quality of educational services, including:
1.   Establishment of a policy analysis unit in MEJ for analyzing education sector 
strategy and policies and strengthening federal educational management, planning, 
budgeting and service delivery through technical assistance,  training, introduction 
Page  10
and improvement of management information systems and  the execution of studies and 
surveys on the education sector, and  rehabilitation of an existing building adjacent 
to MEJ's headquarters facilities to consolidate its activities.
2.   Establishment of an assessment mechanism to measure the learning outcomes of 
education services, and of other institutions to improve the quality and effectiveness 
of the education system.
Part C:   Social Security Services
     A program of studies and provision of technical assistance aimed at:
1.   Carrying out a review of the social security system and preparing proposals for 
alternative systems.
2.   The program of studies would consist of: (i) development of legal, economic and 
administrative proposals needed to improve the efficiency of  revenue recording, 
reporting, collection and enforcement procedures; (ii)  completion of the master list 
of employers, records of salaried and  self-employed workers and the elimination of 
open records without specific  employers; and (iii) development of a follow-up system 
for payments in arrears and payments in default.
3.   The following activities: (i) preparation of a proposal to restructure levels and 
distribution of benefits; with specific reference to their income  redistribution 
effects; (ii) streamlining of procedures for defining benefit eligibility and amounts, 
and the mechanization of payment mechanisms; and (iii) development of a proposal for 
administrative reform of the Social Security
System.
Part D:   Labor Market Services
     A program to improve the Borrower's employment assistance services, including:
1.    Development of an employment data bank, including sector- and area- specific 
information;
2.   Preparation of policy proposals to improve labor mobility and to introduce 
unemployment assistance programs; and
3.   Preparation of a proposal to restructure the labor inspection, employment and 
informal sector units of ST.
Part E:   Statistical Services for Social Sectors
1.   A program to improve the technical and administrative capabilities of INDEC and 
the statistical units of the Executing Agencies through technical assistance, 
acquisition and utilization of equipment and training.
2.   A program to improve the gathering, processing and coordination of 
socio-demographic data for planning and policy-making and to strengthen sectoral 
statistic units in health, labor, human development and family and  education at 
national and provincial levels.
Part F:   Public Social Expenditure
     A program of studies consisting of:
1.   An analysis of the effects of public social expenditure on the target  population 
and the costs and impact of the most important social programs;
2.   An evaluation and proposal of a planning and budgeting mechanism to  improve the 
cost effectiveness of public social expenditures; and
3.   Preparation of recommendations on the ways to improve social service delivery, in 
particular on those targeted to low income groups.
Part G:   Legal Information System
     A program to increase the number of users of the Borrower's legal information 
system (SAIJ) and to improve its capabilities and services through  the provision of 
technical assistance and acquisitions and utilization of  equipment to: (i) complete 
an assessment of information and training needs of public and private users and the 
Page  11
definition of technical specifications of hardware and software needed; (ii) develop 
integrated software that would enable a certain group of users such as the Central 
Bank, the courts and the Attorney General's office to feed the system with up to date 
information on  rules and regulations, cases and legal opinions as soon as they are 
issued, as part of these institutions' management information systems; (iii) improve 
the updating expediency of the existing data base and to establish a user-friendly 
access system, including the development of a thesaurus and automatic  codification of 
information; and (iv) training activities for SAIJ's staff and the system's other 
users.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
          Arrangements for the Execution of the different
                       Parts of the Project
Executing Agency
Part A:
1.   SS
2.   SDHF
3.   SSC
Part B:
1.   SCMEJ
2.   SE
Part C:   SSS
Part D:   ST
Part E:   INDEC
Part F:   SEC
Part G:   SJ
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning March 1, 1994
     through   September 1, 2003                     1,400,000
Page  12
________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and  2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 but more than 
$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent  of 
$3,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers, from at least 3 
different countries, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less, up to an aggregate 
Page  13
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured by  direct purchase 
from established and reliable suppliers.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or request by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis  of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
Page  14
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)   the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
                should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
                in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
                Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
                or
          (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
                eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding
                special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
                Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
                Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount
                of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
