CIRCULATING COPY
BTO E RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1699-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
AND TO
THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
October 22, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1. Official Rate
lei 4.97    =    US$1.00
lei 1       =    US$0.20
2. Tourist Rate
lei 12.00   =    US$1.00
lei 1       =    us$o.08
Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
lei 20      =    US$1.00
lei 1       =    US$0.05
Fiscal Year -- January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS TO
THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA, AND TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA,
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
ROMANIA FOR A FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
of US$20 million equivalent to the Investment Bank of Romania, and of US$40
million equivalent to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania
(BAFI), with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania, to help fi-
nance a flood recovery project. The loan to the Investment Bank would have
a term of 20 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2
percent per annum. The loan to BAFI would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Romania joined the Bank on December 15, 1972.   The latest economic
report, entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Romania" (492a-RO), was
circulated to the Executive Directors on November 11, 1974. The third economic
mission visited the country in May 1975 and is currently completing its re-
port. Social and economic country data are given in Annex I.
3.        Since the founding in 1947 of the People's Republic of Romania,
which in 1965 was reconstituted as the Socialist Republic of Romania, economic
managemerit has been organized along socialist principles which have included
state and cooperative ownership of almost all productive resources, and the
absence of private enterprise. Economic activity is directed by means of
obligatory development planning, coordinated by the central authorities.
Productive enterprises operate within the framework of the development plan
which defines the scope of their activity, the outlines of their production
and investment goals and their targets for operating efficiency. The Plan
is elaborated within a five-year time frame, each year having a separate Annual
Plan. The country is presently in the fifth year of its Five-Year Plan for
the period 1971-1975, and is preparing the next Five-Year Plan for 1976-80.
4.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is



- 2 -
controlled through a system of physical production targets. Production enter-
prises generally are not authorized to engage directly in foreign trade and
rely on specialized foreign trade enterprises for this purpose. In agri-
culture, large State farns and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
5.        Economic development is of paramount concern to the Romanian
Government. Rapid industrialization is a major objective with priority being
given to heavy industry including steel, machine tools and chemicals. To
achieve their growth objectives, the Romanian authorities have made consider-
able efforts to mobilize domestic resources for development and to maintain
a high rate of capital formation. In the present Five-Year Plan, planned and
actual investment rates of around 30 percent of GNP have been the nonn. As
a consequence, consumption has been restrained, and the development of the
consumer goods industry has been less strongly emphazised than that of heavy
industry. In 1972, heavy industry (led by machine tools, chemicals and fer-
rous metallurgy) accounted for about 70 percent of industrial production.
6.        As a result of this strategy, a marked change has been achieved in
the structure of Romania's economy. Rapid industrial growth, which over the
last decade has averaged more than 13 percent per annum, has expanded the
share of the labor force employed in industry (including power and construc-
tion) from about 14 percent in 1950 to 38 percent in 1974. During the same
period, the share of labor force engaged in agriculture declined from 74 per-
cent to around 40 percent; and while agricultural output almost tripled, its
share in GNP amounted to only 15 percent in 1974.
7.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, more than half
of the population (about 57%, in 1974) still lives in rural areas and agricul-
ture remains a key sector of the economy. Apart from supplying food, indus-
trial inputs and the residuai labor increment for industrial growth (which
requires an expansion in agricuiltural productivity), the sector also supplies
upwards of 50% of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earnings. These
earnings, which are largely used to buy imported inputs for industry, have
often been jeopardized as a result of unstable production growth in agricul-
ture. The maintenance of the industrial development program, therefore, is
dependent on the performance of the agricultural sector.
8.        Romania's population growth is around 1.0 percent per annum.    Thus,
the impact of rapid economic growth on per capita incomes has been only mar-
ginally diluted by the population increase. In the last decade, GNP growth
has averaged 9.0 percent per annum, implying a growth of about 8.0 percent per
annum of per capita GNP. GN]' per capita in 1973 was US$890, estimated ac-
cording to World Bank Atlas methodology.
9.        The organization of production in both the urban sector and in agri-
culture is such that all labor is employed and there is no open unemployment.



-3-
There is, however, some labor surplus, mainly in agriculture. Income distri-
bution is also relatively equal. In 1974, average monthly wages were 1,663
lei (over $80 equivalent) per month, up 6.4 percent over the previous year.
Almost 80 percent of all monthly wages in 1972 were within the range of 900-
2,000 lei and less than 6 percent were under 900 lei. Prices for essential
consumer goods and services such as basic foodstuffs, rents and urban trans-
port are relatively low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided without charge. Continuous efforts are made to increase
the standard of living. Romania also pursues a positive regional policy
which has sought to bring a balanced development of both human and natural
resources to all parts of the country.
10.       The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for
accounting purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per
US$1, having been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974.
Under a new system introduced in January 1974, the prices of all traded goods
are converted at a uniform rate of lei 20 per US$1, a rate which is considered
by the Romanians as being representative of the cost of convertible foreign
exchange. For imported goods, the domestic lei price is found by adding to
the foreign price converted at the new rate a tariff rate which varies for
different types of goods. The rate of lei 20 per US$1 has also been used to
convert national income statistics from lei to dollars. Consequently, this
rate has been used as the base rate for calculations in the appraisal.
Recent Developments
11.       Since the National Party Conference of 1967, which set the stage
for major qualitative advances in Romania's economic and social development,
there have been important new emphases in Romania's economic management.
Measures were taken to improve the institutional basis of planning (e.g. by
creating the Centrals to assist in plan administration), to increase the ef-
ficiency of economic management and to improve upon the quality of production
in industry. In agriculture efforts were made to raise productivity and
stabilize growth through irrigation, mechanization and the expanded use of
chemical fertilizers. To expand upon the growth of foreign trade and tech-
nical-economic cooperation the Romanian Government has concluded trade and
cooperation agreements with a wide range of countries. In this context also,
Romania has made positive efforts to expand its multilateral external rela-
tions and to pursue full cooperation with the international agencies, includ-
ing UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, FAO, UNIDO and GATT.
12.       Measures aimed at continued improvement of the management system
include a reorganization (involving a reduction from 217 to 95) in the number
of industrial Centrals and a concentration of their planning, control and
research functions. The pursuit of purely physical goals in production and
trade, while still an important element in the system, is being supplemented
by much greater emphasis on productive and investment efficiency, product



-4-
quality, pricing and foreign competitiveness.    To eliminate wasteful invest-
ment and production expenditures, a Superior Court of Financial Control has
been instituted, among other things, to oversee a new system of financial
control.
13.       Foreign trade has expanded quite rapidly in recent years both in
volume and in regional diversity. There has also been a tendency to move
away from trade on a bilateral barter basis toward trade involving multilateral
payments. During the period 1971-74, total foreign trade grew at about 34
percent per annum in current prices. As a result of both rapid world price
increases and expanded volume of trade, the total value of trade grew by 38
percent in 1974, with exports growing by 32 percent to US$4.9 billion, and
imports increasing by about 47 percent to US$5.1 billion. About 59 percent
of 1974 trade was with non-socialist countries as against 50 percent in the
previous year, a trend largely explained by the more rapid price increases in
non-socialist trade. Overall trade deficits have generally remained small,
but in 1974 there was an overall trade deficit of $191 million, while the
deficit with the convertible area was over $300 million. In recent years
imports from East European Socialist countries have been slightly lower than
Romania's exports to that region. In Romania's trade with Western industria-
lized countries, on the other hand, exports typically have been much less
than imports. These deficits have sometimes been increased by deficits on
the invisibles account with Western countries.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market econo-
mies remains essentially unfavorable. Raw materials and agricultural commo-
dities, both of which are subject to unstable price and production conditions,
comprise about 60 percent of total exports to these countries. At the same
time imports from these countries are largely of machines and equipment and
other manufactures. Because of the present low level of reserves, any instab-
ility in export performance, as frequently arises from shortfalls in agricul-
ture (paragraph 7 above), tends to place the import program in immediate
jeopardy, and shortages of convertible currencies would persist even if
Romania were to have recurring overall trade surpluses.
15.       Romania is relatively well endowed with energy resources and for
this reason has been less affected than some countries by recent developments
in this sector. Romania is a marginal (but growing) importer of crude oil
but is not dependent on this for fuel, using the imports as chemical feedstock
to make products for re-export. Romania has substantial deposits of natural
gas, crude oil and solid fuels (mainly lignite) as well as some limited hydro-
power, uranium and geothermal energy. There has been a long standing policy
to reduce the use of gas and oil as fuels, conserving these for higher value
uses while expanding the use of lignite as a combustible. This policy was
devised before the events of late 1973, though priorities were thereafter in-
tensified under a decree on energy use and development issued in November
1973. One of the implications of the strategies set forth in the decree is
that investment needs in the sector will be greater than before, mainLy be-
cause technical options favored by the decree for electrical power develop-
ment, such as lignite based, hydroelectric and nuclear stations, are all



- 5 -
relatively more capital intensive than the alternatives of gas and oil fired
stations. The plan for 1976-80, now being drafted, will contain provision
for an increased share of investments for energy development.
External Assistance
16.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to pay
for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by borrowing
abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism. Gross
inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans were
USS1,020 million in 1974, consisting mostly of financial and suppliers' credits
with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow represented a net
inflow of some $685 million after accounting for the country's repayment
obligations.
17.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term pri-
vate capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under which
foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises, prefer-
ably in foreign exchange earning/saving industries. By mid-1975, five joint
venture agreements had been signed, involving direct foreign investment of
about US$15-20 million. Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from
U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD, COFACE, and HERMES credit guarantees with
the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively.
Romania succeeded recently in securing a US$60 million, eight-year loan from
Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agreement. In addition, Romania has
access to non-convertible currency investment credits from the International
Investment Bank, Moscow, from which it has borrowed $30 million so far.
18.       As it stands, therefore, Romania's access to long-term finance in
convertible currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the only major
source of long-term development finance, though Romania is making efforts to
improve its access to the major financial markets. The Bank's presence on a
significant scale would have a positive influence in this regard, and the Bank
might serve as a catalyst for involving other lenders in Romania. This could
serve both to increase the total amount of Bank-sponsored funds available to
Romania and to build outside confidence in the country, thereby enhancing in
the long-term its independent access to the world's financial markets.
Prspe_cts
19.       The current Five-Year Plan (1971-75) reflects Romania's continued
strategy of rapid growth. The targets contained in the Annual Plan for 1975,
for example, included 18 percent growth in industrial production, 12.5 per-
cent growth in national income, an investment rate equal to 35 percent of
national income and 21 percent expansion of foreign trade. The Plan also



- 6 -
lays stress on a range of qualitative aspects of development including tech-
nical improvements and diversification in industry and foreign trade, improve-
ments in capcacity utilizat:ion, development of the nation's human resource
potential and a continued emphasis on regional development.
20.       Romania has gooc! potential for further economic growth.   Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and a favorable climate both for agriculture and tourism) and located con-
veniently with respect to its major international markets in the East and
West, the country has built a broad industrial infrastructure (power, metal-
lurgy, chemicals) which will serve as a base for the expansion of secondary
manufacturing sectors such as machine building and consumer durables. Above
all, Romania has a hard-working and increasingly skilled population.
21.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more economic use
of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The in-
creasing diversity and corplexity of Romania's economic structure require
continuing improvements in the efficiency of economic planning and coordina-
tion and further refinements in economic management. To keep up with these
changes and requirements, large programs of education and manpower training
have been mounted, and efforts are being made to strengthen technical coop-
eration with industrialized countries and international organizations.
Creditworthiness
22.       At the end of 1974, Romania's total medium- and long-term external
debt amounted to $2,161 million.   Most of these debts ($2,089 million) were
denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average maturities
are relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estimated to
be in the order of $448 million a year during 1975-76. The convertible debt
service ratio was approxinately 15.5 percent in 1974, and is estimated to be
about the same for 1975.
23.       The organization of economic activity in Romania and the pursuit
of a development strategy involving higih investment/saving rates and rapid in-
come growtlh ensure Romania's capacity to service external debt if domestic
resources can be converted into foreign exchange for that purpose.    Moreover,
the country's major effori:s to expand exports (particularly to convertible
currency areas), to attract private joint venture capital and to seek other
forms of bilateral convertible currency financing are increasing the foreign
exchange available for debt service.   Convertible export earnings rose from
US$830 million in 1971 to US$2,619 million in 1974. The preferential trade
status accorced to Romania by the European Communities in June 1973 should
facilitate the furthler cxypansion of such exports, as should the recent granting
of most favored nation status by the U.S.   In 1973, the Government also
restricted the use of short-tern credlit facilities from western suppliers in
an eflort to improve the structure of the country's external debt.    Assuming
a continuation of present export and deht management policies, it can be



- 7 -
expected that the debt service ratio will stabilize during the second half of
the 1970's. The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of
both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for
continued development, all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy
for substantial Bank lending.
24.       With regard to the settlement of claims arising from Romania's pre-
war debt, the final payments of U.S. claims began in September and will be
completed by April 1976, based upon agreements reached in May 1975. Settle-
ment of British claims has proved more difficult, but a breakthrough was
achieved during the visit of Prime Minister Wilson to Bucharest from September
16 to 18, 1975. According to the Joint Communique concerning the results of
this visit, President Ceaucescu and Prime Minister Wilson approved an aide-
memoire on the settlement of the British claims, which "establishes the basis
for negotiations, at the soonest possible date, with a view to concluding an
agreement on the full and definitive settlement".
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
25.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's sixth operation in Romania,
and it would bring total bank commitments to Romania to $350 million. Bank
lending to Romania began in June 1974 with the $60 million loan for the Bacau
Fertilizer Project. This operation was followed in July 1974 by the $70 mil-
lion loan for the Otelinox Special Steel Project and the $60 million loan for
the Turceni Thermal Power Project, and in January 1975 with the $70 million
loan for the Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project and the $30 million loan for
the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project. Initial disbursements under
these loans have been slow, but the awarding of contracts during the second
half of 1975 is expected to result in increased disbursements by the end of
the year. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1975.
26.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending continues
to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at supporting the Govern-
ment's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies to improve the quality
of products and production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to pro-
vide for necessary electric power development. Market aspects and marketing,
especially for export goods, are also emphasized. Special attention is given
to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where
productivity levels are still comparatively low.



- 8 -
27.       With regard to the prospects for future lending, further projects
for irrigation and power have been appraised an(d are expected to be ready for
consideration by the Executive Directors early in calendar 1976. The pos-
sibilities of financing projects for agroindustries, anti-friction be,arings,
heavv machinery, pulp and paper and canal development are under consideration.
There is also a possibility of a longer-term flood protection project as a
follow-up to the proposed Flood Recovery Project.
23.       Romania is expected to rely upon the IBRD primarily for fundls re--
quired to finance needed convertible-currency imports. At the same time,
Romania has developed a relatively advanced industrial structure and is in a
position to supplv a large proportion of the equipment and supplies required
for the execution of many high priority development projects. 11ence, in a
few cases, such as the present one, it may be necessary and appropriate, if
the flank's lending is to provide adequate support to Romania in high priority
fields, to include some local cost financing in particular 13ank loans.
29.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDT) has assisted Roi:iania
by conducting industrial project appraisal training courses for Romanian of-
ficials in Belgrade in October 1973 and in Bucharest in January/February 1975.
This assistance will be continued and expanded to include other sectors.
30.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
consi(lered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for ex-
ternal financing and of its total disbursecl convertible debt.   Hlowever, they
will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and mav set a pattern for obtainin5 longer term convertible finance
from other sources.  The disbursed IBRT debt outstanding to the Bank is ex-
pected to constitute about 12 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currec\cy debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments in
19S0 would be about 5 percenlt.
PART III - T1E 1975 FLOODS
Background
31.       In early July 1975, serious floods caused extensive economic and
other damage in Romania. Rainfall had been above average since April, and
in earlv June heavy rains caused some localized flooding and saturated soils
in many river basins. On June 30, 1975, a heavy storm moved from northwest
to southeast over central Europe and covered almost the whole of Romania by
the night of July 1. This storm was virtually stationary over the central
and southeastern parts of Romania for over two davs and moved out of Romania
only on July 11. Total rainfall during these 11 days at several meteorologi-
cal stations ranged from 100 mm to 245 mm, of which about 70% to 90% fell
from July 1 to 3. At certain stations, 107 mm. to 140 mm fell in 24 hours



from July 1 to 2, exceeding even the normal monthly rainfall for this time of
year. The intense rainfall during 24 hours of July 1-2, the saturated ground,
mountainous terrain and the storm pattern all contributed to produce flash
floods in five major river basins and in a number of others. Flood peaks in
many places were the highest ever recorded. Within a few days, about 1.1 mil-
lion hectares of land were flooded. Because of these extraordinary circum-
stances and resulting damages, the Romanians approached the Bank to request
assistance in recovering from the floods.
River Basins Most Seriously Affected
32.       Five river basins covering about one-third (80,300 square kilometers)
of Romania were seriously affected by the floods. Althotugh there was also
some damage in the Danube valley and in a number of smaller river basins, thie
five river basins which were hardest hit were: (i) the Mures which drains the
western slopes of the Carpathians and a large portion of the Transylvanian
plateau before flowing west into Hungary: (ii) the Olt wlhich drains the
northern Carpathian slopes before turning south through a narrow valley in
the Carpathians to the Danube; (iii) the Arges which drains the southern slopes
of the Carpathians and includes Bucharest; and (iv) the Ialomita and (v) Buzau
which drain the eastern slopes of the Carpathians into the Danube. Over 80
percent of all flood damages occurred in these five basins.
Flood Damage
33.       Although the toll in human life (62) was mercifully light, the floods
have dealt a serious blow to the Romanian economy. It will take at least one
or two years to complete rehabilitation of flood damages and several years for
the economy to recover fully. Because the Bank mission was in the field with-
in two weeks of the storm, it was not possible to quantify the considerable
damage to about 250 local industrial enterprises, housing, and community
facilities in 1,300 villages and 65 towns which were flooded. However,
eleven Ministries were able to supply field damage surveys which show total
quantified losses to national industrial enterprises, agriculture, transport
and flood protection, irrigation, and drainage works of US$793 million split
about evenly between production (including crops) and asset losses. While
flash floods and inundation were the most severe hazard, landslides and mud
deposits caused major damage in mines, transportation and industry. Much of
the loss in orchards and vineyards resulted either from landslides or heavy
hailstorms. The quantified production loss represents 1.9 percent of 1974
GNP, and the asset loss 6.2 percent of gross domestic investment in 1974.
34.       Flooding in the Mures basin was especially serious and accounted for
an estimated US$223 million or over 25 percent of quantified losses. Losses of
crops, agricultural facilities and transport works were widespread in the basin.
Over 40 percent of industrial damage was concentrated in this region, with
chemical and textile and other light industries being particularly hard hit.
The Olt basin had exceptional losses to transport, largely because of the rail-
ways and national roads located for long stretches beside the river in the
narrow valley which characterizes the upper Olt. Relatively high transport



- 10 -
losses also occurred in the Buzau basin. There were also significant agri-
cultural losses in other basins attributed both to flooding along the Danube
and to heavy rains and poor drainage in a number of smaller basins.
35.       About half (US$407 million) of the quantified flood losses were to
crops (US$324 million), industrial production (US$74 million) and other pro-
duction (US$9 million). This figure accounts only for the first order effects
of the flood, since it has not been possible to quantify the linkages between
these losses and their indirect effect on the economy. Nonetheless, the first
order effects alone will seriously reduce export earnings and funds available
for investment as discussed in paragraphs 36 and 37 below. In addition, about
a third of all flood losses (US$272 million) resulted from damage to infra-
structure which must now be replaced or rehabilitated; the major portion of
these losses was in transportation. US$53 million of total losses were to
machinery and equipment. Concentration of much of the equipment loss in
industry, however, has resulted in an estimated US$74 million loss of indus-
trial production. This estimate, however, appears to understate the economic
effect of these losses because it was incomplete at the time of the Bank mis-
sion and because the second order effects of the production losses could not
be quantified by the mission. The figures also exclude losses in local in-
dustry which could not be quantified.
Export Losses
36.       Pro.uction losses from the flood are serious because of their
negative impact on Romania's balance of trade, particularly on convertible
currency eaniings.   Romania has relied heavily on agriculture to provide about
50 percent of convertible currency earnings which are essential to the indus-
trial investment program. In 1974, a year in which several regions were
affected by drought, Romania exported US$1,339 million of raw and processed
agricultural produce, the former accounting for about US$600 million.     It is
estimated that the flood losses will reduce agricultural exports by about
US$225 million (including about $125 million to convertible currency areas)
in 1975. Such a reduction would be equivalent to 17 percent of agricultural
(or 4.6 percent of total) exports in 1974. Although it is not expected that
Romania will have to import food to replace losses, the drop in agricultural
exports will have serious consequences on the economy and will make it more
difficult to recover from tihe US$191 million overall trade deficit in 1974.
It has not been possible to quantify the 1975 export losses for industry. Un-
like agriculture, in which production is seasonal, the 1975 export performance
of industry and mining will depend on the level of shipments in the first half
of the year and the speed with which repairs can be made and production re-
stored.
Impact on Plarned Investment
37.       As a result of .he flood, a significant amount of investment planned
for 1975 and 1976 will have to be deferred because of (i) resources beino di.-
verted for about US$386 million of identified rehabilitation works plus a
substantial a-mount of rehabilitation which had not been quantified at the
time of appraisal and (ii) the US$407 million in crop and other production



losses which will reduce the funds available for investment.   In agriculture
alone, the US'M325 million crop loss would result in approximately US$205 mil-
lion reduction in funds available for agricultural investment in 1976, while
rehabilitation of damaged assets will divert about US$60 million otherwise in-
tended for new investment. The resulting US$265 million reduction represents
19 percent of agricultural investments planned for 1976.
Damage in Major Sectors
38.       The flood damages to agriculture include losses in crop, livestock
and poultry production and stocks, permanent damages to tree crops, and damage
to farm buildings and equipment. Of the 1.1 million hectares flooded, 55 per-
cent were used to grow cereals, 27 percent fodders and pastures, 4 percent
vegetables, 3 percent sugar beets and the balance oilseeds, fruits and other
crops. The floods, excessive ground moisture and hail resulted in losses of
75 to 90 percent of the expected production of crops in flooded areas. Fur-
thermore, abotut 190,000 livestock and 3 million poultry were drowned, 6,500
ha of tree crops were destroyed, and 18,000 tons of stocked cereals and about
US$5 million of livestock products were lost. Losses for agriculture amount to
US$384 million, including about US$60 million in damaged assets. The floods
also damaged 285 flood protection, irrigation, and drainage works throughout
the flooded areas. Damage to flood protection works was most serious, followed
by irrigation and drainage works.
39.       In industry, excluding power and mining, the floods caused an esti-
mated US$159 nmillion in damages to 152 (or 20 percent) of 722 national enter-
prises under seven ministries and caused extensive losses in about 250 local
enterprises. The highest numbers of national enterprises affected are under
the Ministry oE Light Industry (46) and the Ministry of Forestry and Building
Materials (36). The largest loss of assets (exceeding US$28 million) was in
the Ministry of Forestry and Building Materials, which has a number of wood
processing plants located in mountain valleys hit by flash floods. Flash
floods also damnaged four cement factories.  The chemicals industry also
suffered heavy losses totalling US$24 million; high water damaged electrical
equipment, controls and instruments, while reaction of water with chemicals
set off explosions in two plants causing serious damage to equipment and ma-
chinery.  The linistry of Light Industries lost much precision and automated
equipment whic6 is particularly susceptible to damage from water and mud.
Fortunately, losses in the Heavy Mlachinery, Machine Tools and Metallurgy
Ministries were~ relatively light. Direct losses alone do not reflect the
full impact of the damage to industry. Some damaged factories supply basic
inputs to other parts of the economy, while others are the only ones of their
kind in the country. Continued disruption in their operations could have
serious indirect effects on the economy. Also, the floods may severely curtail
industrial exports and thus hurt the whole economy, as a substantial part of
production of nany units was destined for exports. The floods also caused an
estimated US$9 million in damage to electric power installations, and 15 of
about 100 mine'; in the country were flooded with estimated damages of US$34
million.



40.       An estimated US$187 million in transport and telecommunication
damages was caused by flash floods, landslides and general flooding in low-
lying areas. The Mures and Olt river basins sustained the most damage. of
the 11,000 km national rail network about 2,625 kin (24 percent) was affected
by the flooding; 270 km of rail bed and permanent way, and 20 bridges, were
destroyed. Of 13,000 km of national roads, traffic on about 3,400 km (25
percent) was disrupted by flooding and landslides. Nearly 120 km were des-
troyed in over 630 locations, and 18 bridges were washed out. In the 63,000
km network of secondary roads, about 1,120 km of district roads and 1,170 km
of village roads (4 percent of the network) and nearly 680 bridges were des-
troyed. Flooding and landslides also damaged about 6,000 km of 25,000 km of
forestry roads. Telecommunications links which generally follow road and rail
alignments were generally damaged at the same locations where transport facil-
ities were damaged.
The Need for a National Water Control Program_
41.       Although many Romanian rivers are vulnerable to frequent flooding,
such floods normally have occujrred in isolated river basins. Widespread con-
current flooding of a large number of river basins with maximum flows has
occurred only once before in May and June 1970. In 1970, there were serious
floods in the Mures basin and elsewhere in Transylvania, as well as in the
rivers of Moldavia, raising the Danube to high levels. Some areas flooded in
1975 were also flooded in 1970, but damage to these areas was less serious in
1975 than it might otherwise have been because of flood protection measures
taken since 1970. After the 1970 floods, the authorities initiated a number
of flood protection measures and studies. These included channel improvement
and dykes, relocation of facilities to higher levels and construction of water
channels and dykes around some flood-prone facilities. Even though all of the
proposed protective measures wyere not fully completed, the efforts made during
the last few years helped prevent even higher losses due to the 1975 floods.
42.       The 1975 flood has reemphasized the need for a national program
for water control, and the Gov;ernment has already begun a major reorganization
of responsibilities for water management in Romania. Responsibility for this
work has been assigned to the National Wlater Council (NW1C) which was shifted
from the linistry of Agriculture and Food Industry to the Council of Mi,nisters
following the July floods. The NWC is concentrating its efforts on the comple-
tion of flood protection plans for basins wlhich are most flood prone, including
the 'lures, Olt, Arges, Ialomita, and Buzau which were hardest hit in the 1975
floods. The Mures basin flood protection planning effort was undertaken with
UNDr assistance and is the most comprehensive that has yet been carried out.
Other plans are in varying stages of preparation for each of the major river
basins in the country. The total cost of flood protection investment for the
five basins most affected by the floods for the next Five Year Plan (1976-1930)
is currently estimated at US$474 million. This figure is likely to increase
however, following reassessment of design criteria and the extent of works to
be undertaken after the experience of the recent floods.



- 13 -
43.       The Government is planning to improve its existing hydrological data
system to include a flood warning capability by installing US$2 million of
hydrometeorological equipment. This equipment includes automatic stations
to transmit data on precipitation and air temperature from 74 locations; auto-
matic stations to transmit data on water levels, precipitation and air tempe-
ratures from another 70 stations; 20 radio relays to data collection centers;
and other related testing and maintenance equipment.
Government Flood Recovery Effort
44.       Immediately following the floods, the Government began an extensive
program of flood recovery. In the first instance, this effort included the
cleaning up from the floods and restoring to service of as many facilities as
possible without external assistance. Many temporary measures were taken to
restore services (especially in industry and transport) pending longer term
solutions, and the Bank mission was impressed by the speed and thoroughness
with which the Romanian efforts were organized and executed. As this work
continued, the Government turned its attention to the longer-term needs of
recovery. The Government has already begun rehabilitation efforts in all
sectors by diverting significant resources from ongoing investment programs.
These efforts, together with agricultural investments for which funds have
been lost as a result of the floods (paragraph 37), form the basis of the
project proposed for Bank financing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
45.       On July 10, Romania requested Bank assistance for recovering from
the floods which it was only then beginning to get under control. Because
of the urgency of the situation, the Bank responded quickly, and a mission
visited Romania from July 21 to 30 and reviewed with the Government its over-
all measures for flood recovery. The findings of this mission are presented
in a separate report entitled "Romania - Flood Recovery Project, Evaluation
of Flood Damages" (Report No. 876a-RO, dated October 21, 1975), and the pro-
posed project has been formulated on the basis of the mission's review.
Negotiations were held in Washington from September 16 to October 3, 1975.
The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of the Bank
for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) and included representatives of BAFI
and the Investment Bank.
Project Description
46.       The component of the project for industry (including mining and
power) consists of all elements of the Government's flood rehabilitation
program to be executed in the short-term. These include acquisition and
installation of machinery and spare parts to restore production capacity to
the extent possible, repairs to the buildings and infrastructure damaged, and



- 14 -
replenishment of inventories. The agricultural component of the project con-
sists of credit to be extended to farms which have sustained serious flood
losses. It would include urgently needed rehabilitation and investments on
flood-damaged farms which would otherwise have to be deferred as a result of
the floods. The project also includes rehabilitation of damaged flood con-
trol, irrigation and drainage works noted in paragraph 38, and the procure-
ment and installation of the specialized flood warning equipment described in
para 43. The reconstruction of 120 km of national roads, including 18 bridges,
and 270 km of railroads, including 20 bridges, is also included in the project.
A Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III.
Eli2ible Beneficiaries
47.       Some 223 industrial enterprises (including power and mining) which
have sustained physical losses during the floods have been selected by agree-
ment between the Bank and the Investment Bank as eligible beneficiaries under
the project. Similarly, repairs to flood control, irrigation and drainage
works will be carried out at 285 locations agreed between the Bank and BAFI.
Farms with losses in excess of 20 percent of planned production for 1975 would
be eligible for assistance under the project. These farms will be unable to
generate internally the investment funds which are expected from such units
under the Romanian system, and a farm with losses equivalent to 20 percent of
production will lose a substantial part of the funds which it would otherwise
set aside for investment.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The estimated cost of the project is USS345.0 million, with an esti-
mated foreign exchange component of US$37.9 million or 11 percent of total
costs (Annex III). The cost: estimates are based upon current costs of im-
ported items and on local unit prices for civil works. The latter are well
doctunented and are stable in Romania.  It was not possible during appraisal
to prepare detailed estimates of the indirect foreign cost of the agricultural
credit component of the project, and the mission used average figures drawn
fromi the agricultural projects appraised by the Bank and approved earlier this
year. Price contingencies of 11.5 percnt in 1975 and 7 percent thereafter have
been used for imported materials and equipment. No price contingency is in-
cluded for local costs which are controlled under the Romanian pricing system.
49.       The proposed Bank loans totaling US$60 million would finance 17.4
percent of total project costs, including an estimated US$37.9 million in for-
eign costs and $22.1 million in local costs. Because of Romania's level of
industrial development, it is in a position to supply a large portion of goods
to the project as noted in paragraph 28 above. For this reason, the foreign
exchange components both of Romania's overall recovery effort and of the pro-
posed project are relatively small, and local cost financing will be necessary
if the Bank is to assist significantly in flood recovery.



- 15 -
50.       The loans would finance US$15 million (7.8 percent) of the cost of
industrial (including mining and power) rehabilitation; US$30 million (28.5
percent) of agricultural rehabilitation and investments; US$8 million (45 per-
cent) of the component for rehabilitation of flood protection, irrigation,
AND DRAinage works; US$2 million (100 percent) of equipment for the flood
warning and data collection system and US$5 million (9.4 percent) for equip-
ment to assist in rehabilitation of the national road and rail systems.
About US$5.3 million or 5 percent of the agricultural component would be
financed by farms. Because of the severe losses suffered by the farms under
the project, this amount would be less than the normal 25 percent contribu-
tion of eacharm which is set aside from net earnings for investment each
year. The remaining US$279.7 million of project costs would be financed by
the Government. The financing plan for the project is presented in Annex ITI.
The Government will also have to finance about US$133.8 million of rehabilita-
tion costs for local transportation works as well as the rehabilitation of
other losses which had not yet been quantified at the time of appraisal.
Lending and Relending Arrangements
51.       The proposed loans would be made to the Investment Rank of Romania
and to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) under separate loan
agreements with interest at 8-1/2% per annum. The US$20 million of the loan
for industrial and transport rehabilitation would be lent to the Investment
Bank for 20 years including three years grace. The USS30 million for agri-
cultural rehabilitation and investments and US$10 million for flood warning
equipment and rehabilitation of flood control, irrigation and drainage works
would be lent to BAFI for 20 years including five years grace. It is Romanian
practice to invest the major portion of funds in industrv, transportation,
agriculture and flood protection works through the Investment Bank and BAFI
without formal on-lending agreements, and to recover investment costs from
beneficiaries through a variety of financial mechanisms including net income
transfers from State enterprises, taxes, pricing differentials, and deprecia-
tion payments. 1/ For this reason, there will be no formal onlending of US$30
million in lending for industrial and transport rehabilitation, the flood
warning system, and rehabilitation of flood protection works. Agricultural
credit investments, however, are recovered by BAFI under loan agreements of un
to 20 years, including up to seven years grace, for the types of credit sub-
projects included in the project, at three percent per annum for cooperatives
and at four percent for State farms. These arrangements are identical to
those under the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project approved by the
Executive Directors in January 1975. The interest rates are considered now,
as they were then, to be positive because of the near-zero inflation in
Romania.
1/   Payments equivalent to annual depreciation of facilities.   They are
returned to the State budget.



- 16 -
The Borrowers
52.       BAFI and the Investment Bank are specialized agencies of the Govern-
ment for investment in their respective sectors of responsibility. Both in-
stitutions have large technical and economic staffs located in Bucharest, 39
county (Judet) branch offices and sub-branches throughout the country. Both
Banks are involved in all phases of project preparation, appraisal, execution
and supervision. All investment funds for the economy, except those generated
through retained earnings of producing entities, are channelled through the
two banks. As a result, both institutions rely heavilv on the State budget
for investment funds, and the Guarantee Agreement therefore includes a provi-
sion (Section 2.02) that the Guarantor will provide all necessary funds for
the implementation of the project.
53.       The Investment BPank acts as fiscal agent for the Government for all
investment in industry, transport, power and tourism. Its involvement in
investment projects begins with project preparation. The Investment Bank
staff conducts technical and financial appraisals of all major investment
projects. After a particular project and its financial plan have been ap-
proved by the Government, all major funds (budget allocations, depreciation
funds, share of planned benefits) are channelled through the Investment Bank
in accordance with the approved financial plan. All payments in Lei for the
execution of a project must be authorized by the Investment Bank which keeps
separate accounts for each category in the financial plan for each enternrise.
It is the Investment Bank's obligation to ensure that a project is executed
according to the financial and technical data included in the approved project
study. Its inspectors check whether the project is proceeding according to
the schedule approved in the Plan. The Investment Bank's supervision of the
proposed project will include review of investments to be made by the agreed
beneficiary enterprises to replace flood-damaged equipment and spare parts of
types which have been selected by agreement between the Bank and the Invest-
ment Bank.
54.       Similarly, BAFI acts as fiscal agent for all Government investments
in State agricultural units. It also receives interest-free funds from the
State budget for investment lending to cooperatives and repays the Government
as it receives repayments o,f sub-loans from the cooperatives. BAFI has thor-
ough review and approval procedures for all investment projects, and all sub-
projects for more than Lei 10,00o,000 (ITTS500,000) would he reviewed and a?-
proved by the Bank (Schedule 1 of the BAFI Loan Agreement). In addition to
its investment project xwork,, BAFI nrovides short-term credit to, and maintains
settlement accounts for, all cooperative and State a'nricultural enterprises;
it also acts as fiscal agent for the Government for collection of State
revenues from these enterprises.
Organization and Implementation
55.       The Investment Bank wqould have overall resnonsibility for execution
of the industry and transport rehabilitation elements of the project. BArJ
would have overall responsibility for execution of the agricultural invest-
ments and flood protection components. Actual works would be carried out by



- 17 -
the beneficiaries of each component of the loan, or by specialized agencies
working under contracts for the beneficiaries. Industrial enterprises would
be responsible for rehabilitation of their respective plants, and it is
expected that suppliers will assist with installation of specialized equip-
ment. Cooperatives and State farms would carry out all agricultural invest-
ments, and the construction of flood control works would be done by the
Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction (DIFCA) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. The several ministries involved
and related foreign trade enterprises would be responsible for procurement.
Transportation rehabilitation would be carried out by the construction trusts
of the Ministry of Transport and Telecommuncations.
Procurement
56.       The goods to be financed under the project would be procured in ac-
cordance with the Bank's guidelines. Contracts for US$18 million (all figures
include contingencies) including earth moving equipment needed to reopen mines
(US$5 million), transport rehabilitation equipment (US$5 million), and for
equipment to rehabilitate damaged flood control, irrigation and drainage works
(US$8 million), will be bulked for tendering in contracts of US$100,000 or
more, and will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(i.c.b.) under the Bank's guidelines. For purposes of bid comparison, local
suppliers would be accorded a preference of 15% or applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower. In the spring of 1974, a law was passed to allow bidding
between local and foreign suppliers; it is expected that about one-fifth of the
amount of theSe contracts would be won by foreign suppliers. Cost estimates
are based upon a conversion rate of US$1 = 20 lei. Since Romanian currency
is not freely convertible, international tender documents would state this
conversion rate to be used for bid evaluation.
57.       Another US$12 million of equipment would be procured under the Bank
guidelines without international competitive bidding. These include imported
industrial spare parts and industrial instrumentation, controls and electrical
equipment estimated to cost US$10 million which are either proprietary in nature
or are available from only a few international suppliers, and their timely sup-
ply is essential to restore production in the sector.   For these reasons, they
would be procured either from sole suppliers or on the basis of price quotations
from suppliers in at least three (whenever possible) countries. The USS2 mil-
lion of specialized flood monitoring equipment is available from onlv a limited
number of suppliers and would be procured on the basis of price quotations
from suppliers in at least three countries plus Romania (where applicable),
with Romanian suppliers expected to supply about US$200,000 of standardized
communications equipment under these procedures.
58.       The agricultural credit component of the project will consist of a
large number of small subloans for on-farm rehabilitation and investment. Be-
cause of the geographic dispersion, small sizes of individual subprojects and
diverse nature of the work to be performed, procurement for this component of
the project would not be suitable for international bidding and the necessary
equipment and materials would therefore be purchased from Romanian suppliers
under Romanian procedures.



- 18 -
Disbursement
59.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be clisbutrsed against:  (i) 1 nov
of the foreign currency expendituires for imported equipment and spare Darts;
(ii) 100% of the exfactory cost of locally procured equipment; and (iii) 30%
of the amounts disbursed by BAFI for eligible agricultural credit subprojects.
An estimated US$3 million would be disbursed under each of the Loan Agreements
as retroactive financing of expenditures made after August 1, 1975 for imported
industrial equipment and spare parts and for 30 percent of disbursements by
BAFI after August 1 for eligible agricultural credit subTprojects.   A schedule
of disbursements is included in Annex III.
Audit
60.       All transactions by BAFI and the Investment Bank are subject to
continuous control by auditors appointed by the Ministry of Finance and to
once-a-year audit by inspectors from the Court of Superior Control whose re-
ports may go to the Council of Ministers and the President himself, if neces-
sary. The accounting systemTs and the audits of the two Banks are satisfactory
and the audited operating and financial results of both institutions would be
reported to the Bank (Sections 6.01 and (d) of each Loan Agreement).
Benefits
61.       The proposed Flood Recovery Project will provide critically needed
support to Romania's immediate efforts to recover from the serious dislocations
of the floods. The industrial component of the project will restore production
and eliminate bottlenecks which if uncorrected would cause even greater pro-
duction losses than those already incurred. If not corrected immediately,
this situation could lead to even more serious second order effects as produc-
tion units exhaust raw materials supplies for which they depend upon other
sources. The project would also help seriously damaged farms to recover from
the floods and would repair damaged flood protection, irrigation, and drainage
works before the next flood and agricultural seasons in spring 1976. For the
longer-term, the project would provide the specialized equipment necessarv
both for data collection and for early warning of fuiture floods.   The trans-
portation component would provide for permanent repair of the national road
and rail systems.
62.       Because of the diverse nature of the pro`iect, it has not been possi-
ble to calculate an economic rate of retuLrn.  However, given the high sunk
costs of facilities which cannot now be fully utilized and the high incre-
mental benefits of putting these facilities back into use, industrial and
transport rehabilitation would have an extremely high return.    The agricultural
component of the project will help flood-damaged farms to continue a portion
of their investment programs which would otherwise have to be postponed as a
result of the floods and thus avoid further frustrating Romania's attempts to
improve performance of farms in this lagging sector. Tt is not possible to
calculate the rate of return of this component. However, the recent agri-
cultural credit project has shown that such investmTents yield satisfactory
returns typically between 12 and 17 percent.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANT AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Loan Agreement bet-ween the Bank and the Bank for Agri-
culture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and
the draft resolution approving the proposed loans are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.    The special features of the loan
documents are described above.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Director approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 22, 1975



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
ONDN?NTR DATA - ROMANIA
AREA                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPULATION                   IMNSITT
n7 eo .s                                         21-03     rui i  (aid-1974)
217 /4      Per beSof arable lard
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
Ronanla                   T.ognlavia  Italy   W. Geno..
____                    1970          1970         12 .
ON? PNR CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) a                ~~~330 /4      890 Z.E          890 Lc      1,960 /d      3,390 /d
DE9NIIRAPHIC
ra-'.__te .t  (per thousand)                                19           18.1               18 Z._      16.3 /d       10.2/1
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                    9            9.2  dd 4                      96/          1-1.8/5
Infant mortality rats (per thocaand live births)                  753               5              3                        240.  0.1,4
Life .OPsOteOcy at birth (years)                                  66             69 /468I/                    71.1          71.3 4
Dross reproduction rate /2                                       0.6 /i         1313h                          13~            .
Population growth rate                                           1.1             :                 0            .09
Population growth rate ~- rban                                     5A3/5..7
A9o Stn,L.re (p-ret)
lo-III                                                          20 gi         25 /              27 ~e      25,.~         2 30
15-61I                                                         65    i1       66 /465                a     6L.9   e      636
65 and over                                                      7    i         9/               80         10.7  e       13.1
Age depedency ratio /4                                           0.5/           0.5 10.5                       i.              .
Economic dependency ratio /4                                     0.7            0.7 0/9 .000
Urhac population as percent of total                              32A 45          2 /d.k          39 /e.1       95 /e.e     38.5 /n,o
Fam,ily planning. Na. ef a-cptors eusulative (theu.              *. 
No. of usere (% of married ecun) 
WDOWhNT
Total labor force (thousands)                                  9,600 /       10,100 /          8,900o/      19,600 /r     27,000 /41
Percentage employad in agliedtors                               66 /5           1               h455/         17           7. 3 4,
Pe'rcentage uneoployod                                           0              0              3.3/..          3 /a        1.   d
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of nat i.n1 in-uM. received by highest 5%                                 o                5 4I"y
Percent of ne ticeAl Inco.n r--ivad by highest 20%               ..              .                 2 7-j.
Percent of national income received by low,est 20%               *.c7 /.v
Percent of national i.cose receivd by loseet 40%                 1.             .
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 0WgR.SHIP
B  Wmaed by tcp 10% of ownrs                                     ...                             5.1/
% owned by ameslset 10% of ownrs....0                                                              9/4.
Pooaio  e  physiin                                       780 /4         830 /4950 /.                   510 Ze        561 /
Pepuiation per cursing person                                    300            200              380   c /4     20 /..       330 /c
Popoletion per hospital bed                                      150            120 /4170 /4                    90 /4        -90 /
Per capita esicrie supply as % of requiremnts /5                 105 /5         08               125           126           121
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per dayTL6                81 /4          92               92           100            80
Of which, animal end pulsa                                      24             28               29 /4         L2 Z.b        56'
Death rate 1-5 yearn /7                                            5 Li         2.5,             2.5 /4        1.0 /4       0.5 /
EDUJCATION
Adjus.Td /8primary nehool enrollment ratio                       97            l09               95           107           132
Adjueted     necc.odary school enrollment ratio                   52             62               55            59           61
lerarof schooing provided, first and second le..el                12         12-IL                12            13        12-15
Voca.tional enrolment an % of sac. schoci enrollment              5s             58 ao72                        26            48
Adul.t literacy rate %                                           ...85 /4                                       91            99 f, .c.od
HNOUSnIN
Average No. of pernons per room (urban)                          ..1.3              p1.3 /e                    1.1  cof      0.7 /'.of
Percent of occpied unite without piped water                     .088                  a.s        66            38  ca       0.3 3   -
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                 ..               9 /   n         88  eoc       96 /1~      100 
Perc...t of ,'oral pepulation conneted tc sleotriity             ..27 V.                          00
CONSUMPTION
*~~~F~eicere per 1000 population                              109            150 /d           i71 /4        23.0d         329 'd
Pascongor cars per 1000 population....5                                                              /d         30 2453/4a
Electric poser consumption (bo   p.c.)                           515         1,931 /4          1570 /       2,586 d4       L,6I7 /4
Newsprint coasumption p.c. kg per year                          2.1            2.8 /45./                      5.5 /4       00.5 /d
hotes,  Figorn rarer either to the latest periods or to               anccout of evrratltmeaue                 oywihs        n
the loteot yearo.   latent periode rarer in principle to              distribution by age and ea" of national populations.
the years. 1956-60 or 1966-70; the iateet yearn in pri-n-         /56  Protein standar.ds (requirmnents) for all countries   asteatb-
ciple t 1960 end 1970.                                                lished by USDA Econoolo R-eeareh Service provide for a minimnum
/I. ThePer C.pita SNP estimate is at na,rkrt pric-o for                all-sance of 60 grams, of total protein per day, an   20 gram  of
yeas   t18cr then 1960, calculated by the ,ame coorerelon         enimai. nd pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
technique no tin 1972 WcrId Bankc Atlon.                          protein.   Thee st-anards ar     -,mehat 1osse  than those of 25
/  gAvrage number of daughters, per omoc, of reprod-ctive           gram   of total protein and 23 gram   of animal protein as en
age.                                              ave~~~~~~~~~~~~,rage for the world, propoced by FAO in the Third World Food
/4  Pbpulation growth rates ore for the decodes ending in              Surre.
1960 cod 1970.                                                 7Son. studies hare euggeeted that crude death rates of children
/4 8R100 cf pepolaion under iS cOd 65 and over to popula-              ages 1 through 4 may be un.ed as a ftr.t appronimation indec of
ticc of oges 15-65 for ago dope,od-oY ratio cod to 1obor          malnutritio..
force of agec 15-65 for econo.mic dependency ratio.           /8  Peroentage enrolled of sorraponding population of school age
FAOP6  reference stand-rd   represet physiological cv-              as defined for each ooantry.
quirsoent,a for ,oreal activity and hamlth, tsking
/s 197h:   /b   In 1971 US$ converted at the rats of 20 tla per US$;      /-   1973;   /d  1972;    /-  1971;    If  1970-72;
7z    1970-71;- /h   1970-75;   A/   19,62;   /5  1960-72;    /k  Cities, twns and 183 other lo..li8ti.     haeing urban socio-
,conomic charocteriatico;    LI For the definition of urb-an se UNL        ~    i.Yt:b.             p. 129;   /.  Population
ove  2,000;  /c  Definitio.ncot available;     LL. 1969;    /4  1 966;,/ /4   mlm     t;     i     y-me  and over;   Is  Estimaete
based cc the renults of a labor foree sam,ple survy;       /t  Ratio of registered lob esekere to active population;
/0   -ccnhold.;   /v  1968;   /.   Share d total agriculture 1and owned by social aectr;         /4  Shareof total agricul ture
1and owned by private faYrser   (nize limit 10 hectares);     /4  Iccludes dentists;    /z   l96   ;/       Hospital p-sco,ue1;
lob  1969-70;    /cc  F.11-time edcation only;      /ad   15 years and over;    /ae  Pemrcetage_ of dwel.lings;   If    Total, urban
and rura;     Z.   P-rcatags of d.elligs without p1ped cater inside;       7-19A  Registered only;    /.i   Ratio of poplatio,
coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force.
oPercent of calaried   ..rb... earning acr   than 2,500 Lmi       i~       41
Percent of salaried   orkero eari,,g leoc than, 1,310 mLa         .       23.0
cc The Pederl Republic of Gerany has been     eleocted an an objective country hec...e it is an 1nd..trlui.d iu,opean
coutry with e.or- trade iie     with Ronanda.
RID August 22, 1975



AN.NEX I
Page 2 of 2 pages
ECONOMdC INDICATJt:
GRO'-S LATIONiAL  .GGODiiCT U0 1`710                         ANil;UAL HATE OF' *It0eoTH (f, constantl prices)
USb lri- . ,% of Ui.'3P     1 961 -65       1 66-70           1 97L4
; t . : : G ! ! ;, rk -. T1'W   20,908      1 00.           9.0 /1          7 .7 /1          12 .5 /1
; ros; FiF.12 U o { '... C  ent     6,205       30            11 .3           11 .2             1 8.5
Exports of Goods                    4,87L       23             9.0 /2         10.9 /2           30.4 /2
Imports of Goods                    5,100       25            10.7 72         12.7 75           46.8 75
LABOR FORCE IN 17L                                          GOVrENMLtVP FINANCE
iQl n .     ,                                                            General Government
(letbill.)      % of NNI/j
Egriculture                41                                                          19Th      19717    196.-73
ln(lustry        3.8       38
Services         2.2       22                                 Current Receipts        210.1      63.7       55.1
Current apenditure      207.3      62.9      52.8
Total       10.1       100                                Current Surplus           2.8       0.8        2.3
Capital Ecpenditures     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
BALANCE OF PAYPEZTS                                          REITAIL PRICES           1970      1971       1972 01
(rarl. us Z;) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(19i66 = 100)               1      -01.0    101.60
1971    1 9?    ___1973    i
Fxports of goods                2,10'   2,592   3,667    h,858       Pt'RCHANDILE EiPORTS
Imports of goods                2,102   2,615   3,042    5,049
LIS $ MLn.      %
Trade balornce                      C     -23     +2L3     -191
Net services                      -23     -31    -107     -168       Capital goods            1,011         21
Consutner goods            773         16
Balance on goods and services     -23     -50    t-136     -359      Foodstuffs                 990         20
Intermediate goods         546         11
Net MLT Capital                     5      22      83      642       Raw materials            1,554         32
Disbursements                  350    L060i    589    1,055          Industrial            1,205         25
Amortization                  -3L5    -0412)  -506      013          Agr-cultural            350           7
Residuail Ealunce                 -18     -32    -210     -283                Total           4,874         100
HATE OF' ETERNAL DEEr, DECEJIBER 31, 1974
US $? On.
Officil RatH: rcurist Rate:                                    Total                                     2,161
U',L1 .OQ    lei L.7        US$1.00   = lei 12.00           of which converuible currencies           2,089
1I 1.00      US$0.20         le  1.00  = US$).08
DEBT SL1VICI RATlO FOR 1974
National income conversion rate:                               ConvertCblen currencies only
_e 1;.00  -  41'J 0 4 O5,                                    J1RD/IMA LENDING, SEI'TEMBER 30,1     Million US
IBRD       ID
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        290
/ i  <.  Oion i    cci.:                                                   October 3, 1975
77  Caurt. price:s.                                                         EIENA Region



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of September 30, 1975)
Amount in $ millions
Loan                                                   Less Cancellations
Number     Year     Borrower     Puxpose    Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Ln 1020-RO     1974    Investment   Fertilizer 60.0       -          59.4;
Bank
Ln 1027-RO     1975    Investment   Special     70.0      -          70.0
Bank        Steel
Ln 1028-Ro     1975    Investment   Thermal     60.0      -          60.0
Bank        Power
Ln 1082-RO     1975    BAFlI/       Irrigation  70.0      -          69.9
Ln 1083-Ro     1975    BAFI         Agriculture
& Credit   30.0      -
290.0                288.9
Total
of which has been
repaid
Total now outstanding
Amount sold
of which repaid                    -
Total now held by Bank2/         290.0     -
Total undisbursed                288.9     -          288.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (As of September 30, 1975)
None
1/   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2/   Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXhCUTION
Ln. No. 1020-RO      Bacau Fertilizer.Project; US$60 million Loan of
June 28 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on June 27, 1974.
It was signed on June 28 and became effective on December 31, 1974. By agree-
ment between the Bank and the Borrower, the project site was changed from
Tecuci to Bacau which is more advantageous from the point of view of controlling
effluents. The project is currently in the early stages of procurement and
construction. After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1027-RO     Otelinox Special Steel Project: US$70 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on July 5, 1974.
It was signed on July 10 and became effective on April 3, 1975. Suppliers on
short lists of firms for the bar mill have submitted bids for which bid eval-
uation has been virtually completed. The bids for the rolling mill are ex-
pected in January, 1976.
Ln. No. 1028-RO     Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on July 5, 1974.
It was signed on July 10 and became effective Niovember 6, 1974. Physical
execution is proceeding smoothly. The project cost is likely to be US$377
million which is 6.6f above the appraisal estimiate and the foreign cost is
now likely to be US$100 million which is 12.3, over the appraisal estimate.
Delivery ti7ies for vital foreign supply components threaten to delay the
coImTissioning of at least the first of the four steam-turbine units.   Delays
in disbursement are attributable to Romania's unfamiliarity with i.c.b. pro-
cedures and changes in procurement packages dictated bv price and delivery
considerations. The Project is in general problem free.
Ln. No. 1082-RO     Giurgiu-Razmiresti:  Irrig,ation Project; US$70 million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Closinp Date:   December 31, 1978.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on January 23, 1975.
It was signed on February 5 and became effective on May 5, 1975.    The first
supervision mission was in June 1975.   Construction of two main pumping sta-
tions, several pressure pumping stations, power supply lines, canal excavation
and lining, and canal structures is proceeding. The rate of progress is slow
because of shortage of construction equipment for which procurement has not yet
been initiated pendinz appointment of consultants to assist with procurement.
Appointment of consultants is expected to be completed by the end of November.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Ln. No. 1083-RO     Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Pryoject; US$30 million
Loan of FebruarX 6, 1975; Closing Date:   December 31, 1979.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on January 28, 1975.
It was signed on February 5 and became effective on April 29, 1975. Progress
of project components is satisfactory. All subprojects except the premix
feed mill have been approved by the Bank, and the premix subproject is sched-
uled for submission to the Bank early in 1976. Procurement documentation for
purchasing refrigerated trucks, building materials, steel products, electrical
cables, and the premix feed mill has been completed and approved by the Bank.
Bids for all of these items except the premix feed mill have been received,
and bids for the premix feed mill are expected by the end of October.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 7
ROHANIA
FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
Loat and Project Summary
Borrowers:                Investment Bank and Bank for Agriculture and
Food Industry (BAFI).
Guarantor:                Socialist Republic of Romania.
Beneficiaries:            The beneficiaries will be industrial enterprises and
farms which suffered losses in the July 1975 floods;
DIFCA, the authority responsible for flood protection,
irrigation and drainage works: N.C, the entity re-
sponsible for the flood warning systems; and the
Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications.
Amount:                   Us$60.0 million equivalent, in various currencies,
including US$20 million to the Investment Bank and
US$40 million to BAFI.
Terms:                    Amortization in 20 years, including 3-year grace
period, for the Investment Bank; and in 20 years,
including 5-year grace period for BAFI.
Interest Rate:            Interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Project                   The project consists of:
Description:
(a.) investments in mining and industrial enter-
prises damaged by the 1975 floods, to replace
flood-damaged machinery and spare parts, repair
damaged buildings and infrastructure, reopen
mines blocked by silt, and replenish damaged
and lost inventories.
(b) rehabilitation of 285 irrigation, drainage
and flood control works which were damaged by
the floods,
(c) improvement of Romania's existing hydrological
data system by establishing an automated flood
warning system which will include the installa-
tion of remote sensing stations to record rain-
fall, temperatures and river flows, and facili-
ties to transmit and analyze this data.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 7
(d) investments (in crop or livestock production)
of farm enterprises which suffered losses as
a result of the floods in excess of 20 percent
of their respective annual production planned
for 1975.
(e) reconstruction of flood-damaged transport works
consisting of about 120 km of national highways,
including 18 bridges, and 270 km of railroads,
including 20 bridges.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 7
Cost Estimates:
Foreign
Category                              Local      Foreign     Total     Exchange
--US$ million--------               %
Industrial (including Mining
and Power) Rehabilitation           119.2         9.0      128.2        7
Agricultural Rehabilitation
and Investments                      89.5        15.8      105.3       15
Flood Protection, Drainage
and Irrigation Works                 12.2         2.2       14.4       15
Flood Warning Equipment                 0.2         1.8        2.0       90
Transport Rehabilitation               50.6         2.6       53.2        5
Sub-Total                    271.7        31.4      303.1       10
Physical Contingencies 1!              35.4         2.5       37.9        7
Price Increase 1/                       -           4.o        4. o     100
Total                        307.1        37.9      345.0       11
1/ Detail of Contingencies
Local      Foreign    Total
Category              ---------US$ million-------
Physical for   Industry              23.8         1.8      25.6
Agriculture            -           -         -
Flood Protection       1.3         0.2       1.5
Flood Warning          -           -         -
Transport             10.3         0.5      10.8
Total            35.4         2.5      37.9
Price for      Industry               -           1.8       ].J4
Agriculture            -           -         -
Flood Protection       -           2.0       2.0
Flood Warning          -           -         -
Transport              -           0.2       0.2
Total             -           4.0       4.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 7
Financing P'lan:
Item                                     Local       Foreign        Total
----------US  million----------
IBRD Loans                                 22.1       37.9           60.0
Farm Entities' Contribution
to Investments                        5.3        -              5-3
State Funds                               279.7        -            279.7
Total                              307.1       37.9          345.0



_r.X T TL
Page 5 of 7
Estirated Cumulative
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative
and Quarter                              Disbursements at End of Quarter
(LUS$ Million)
Flood 2/
ustry       Agriculture   Protection     Transport   Total
1976
December 31, 1975               3.0            4. c                                     0
Mlarch 31, 1976                 7.5            8.o         6.0             1.0       25
June 30, 1976                  11.5           13.0        10.0             2.0       36.6
1977
September 30, 1976             13.5           15.0          -              3.5       42.0
December 31, 1976              15.0           17.0          -              5.0       47.0
March 31, 1977                   -            21.0           -              -        51.0
June 30, 1977                    -            24.0           -              _        54.0
September 30, 1977               -            28.0           -              -        58.0
December 31, 1977                -            30.0          -               _        60.0
1/ Including mining and power.
2/ Rehabilitation of flood damages to irrigation, drainage and flood
protection works; and specialized flood warning and monitoring
equipment.
Estimated Disbursements
by Calendar Year:
Cailendar Year                                  Amount (US$ million)
7.0
1976                                               40.0
1977                                               13.0



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 7
Procurement               The goods to be financed under the project would
Arrangements;            be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Contracts for US$18 million (all figures include con-
tingencies) for earth moving equipment needed to
reopen mines (US$5 million), transport rehabilitation
equipment (US$5 million) and for equipment to reha--
bilitate damaged flood control, irrigation and drain-
age works ($3 million), will be bulked for tendering
in amounts of $100,000 or more, and will be axwarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding
(i.c.b.) under the Bank's guidelines. For purposes
of bid comparison, local suppliers would be accorded
a preference of 15% or applicable customs duty, which--
ever is lower. In the spring of 1974, a law was
passed to allow bidding between local and foreign
suppliers; it is expected that about one-fiftlh of
the amount of i.c.b. contracts would be won by foreign
suppliers. Cost estimates are based upon a conversion
rate of US$1 = 20 lei. Since Romanian currency is not
freely convertible, international tender documents
would state this conversion rate to be used for bid
evaluation.
Another US$12 million of equipment would be procured
under the Bank guidelines without international com-
petitive bidding. These include imported industrial
spare parts and industrial instrumentation, controls
and electrical equipment estimated to cost US$10 mil-
lion which are either proprietary in nature or are
available from only a few international suppliers,
and their timely supply is essential to restore pro-
duction in the sector. For these reasons, they would
be procured either from sole suppliers or on the basis
of price quotations from suppliers in at least three
(whenever possible) countries. The US$2 million of
specialized flood monitoring equipment is available
from only a limited number of suppliers and would
also be procured on the basis of price quotations from
suppliers in at least three countries plus Romania
(where applicable) with Romanian suppliers expected
to supply about US$200,000 of standardized communica-
tions equipment under these procedures.
The agricultural credit component of the project will
consist of a large number of small subloans for on-farm
rehabilitation and investment. Because of the geo-
graphic dispersion, small sizes of individual sub-
projects and diverse nature of the work to be per-
formed, procurement for this component of the project



ANNEX ITI
Page 7 of f
wouLd not be suitable for international bidding and
the necessary equipment and materials would therefore
be purchased from Romanian suppliers under Romanian
procedures.
Economic Rate             Because of the diverse nature of the project, it has
of Return:               not been possible to calculate an economic rate of
return. However, given the high sunk costs of in-
dustrial and transport facilities which cannot now
be fully utilized and the high incremental benefits
of putting these facilities back into use, industrial
rehabilitation would have an extremely high return.
The agricultural component of the project will help
flood-damaged farms to continue a portion of their
investment programs which would otherwise have to be
postponed as a result of the floods and thus avoid
further frustrating Romania's attempts to improve
performance of farms in th-is lagging sector. It is
not possible to calculate the rate of return of this
component. However, the recent agricultural credit
project has shown that such investments yield satis-
factory returns typically between 12 and 17 percent.
Mission Report:           "Romania - Flood Recovery Project, Evaluation of
Flood Damages" Report No. 876a-RO, dated October 21,
1975 EMENA Region and Industrial Projects Department.



22-                         t V
CZ ,J?PAIAMARE0                                                    @                                                                 SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
- -HOPE-l" HIGHWAYS
4 t t_A_yX S X B 175 T R I  A_ _        MAJOR NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
OUty 9OUNSARIES
m                  aA-                                                                               INTER.AHTONAL 0OINAIIIES
  COUNTY CAPITALS
MTRA  ROMA                            ~~~~~~~~~~0 MUN ICI 'AL IT IES
X                                                                                         /  TURC  /  H  A  R G  [ \  )  2  KLNETER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOETR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V R-z A X ,<tA4 
1.        --/, -15-IA                                                       0 1czRXz 
0   _gf,Cl Wm,                  \                 8       ,,o  U           L               i'OV!L/tD iVO  $     R            t                       3r   R>v^    bbrUatitetlgnsE/ko       b 7D
ul                 0 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    0     I        S
DO  I  J                                 H~~~~~~~J                      -\5,Q~~~~~~~ST   NIA/~~ES
I&~~~~                        8            U            L  ~~~~~~~~                 ~~~      R                        AT LE  RM 



