CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1170 RO
Loan Agreement
(Flood Recovery Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA DE INVESTITII
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1170 RO
Loan Agreement
(Flood Recovery Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA DE INVESTITI
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCA DE INVESTITII (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist Republic of
Romania;
(b)   "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade,
established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c)   "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as approved by Decree
No. 314 of 1971 of the Council of State of Romania, and Decree No. 125 of
1970 concerning the organization and operations of the Borrower, ratified by Law
No. 22 of 1970 of Romania, as amended by Decree No. 314 of 1971 of the
Council of State of Romania, as amended from time to time; and
(d)   "Project Enterprise" means any State Enterprise whose facilities shall
be or shall have been reconstructed or repaired under the Project.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services selected by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may designate the Foreign Trade Bank as repiesentative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods and for the carrying out of works or services
(other than consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1977, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices, and shall cause the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to be made for
the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order to realize
the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary for each Project Enterprise to
manage its affairs, to carry on its operations, and to operate and maintain the
installations and other property managed or operated by that Enterprise, all in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
The Borrower shall to the extent that it is authorized under the laws of
Romania ensure that each Project Enterprise will conduct its operations in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this Section.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial standards and
practices and in accordance with the Charter.


﻿6
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to create liens as
security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a lien shall be
created on any of the Borrower's assets as security for any debt, the Borrower
undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall
create the lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank, and (ii)
if the lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carrying out the
provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take such measures as shall be
necessary according to the State Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order
to achieve the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end:
(a)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from      time to time at the request
of either party exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, the performance
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan, and, until the Closing Date, the Borrower shall enable
the Bank's representatives to exchange views with representatives of each Project
Enterprise with regard to its activities under the Project;
(b)   the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and


﻿7
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank within
forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the
Project during such quarter;
(c)   the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit and
examine: the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; the plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings and equipment of each Project Enterprise; the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project; the records and documents
of each Project Enterprise; and the other records and documents relating to the
Project:
(d)   the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later than three months
after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the completion
of the Project certified copies of its records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section recording the cost of the Project, for such fiscal year submitted to an
independent audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the before-mentioned financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(e)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time furnish to each
other such additional information as the other party shall reasonably request with
regard to the progress of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations, resources
and expenditures of any Project Enterprise, the benefits derived from the Project
and the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance
of the service thereof or the performance by either party of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date January 2, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banca de Investiti
Str. Doamnei No. 4
Bucharest, Romania
Telex No:
011288 BINVR
011289 BINVR


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By /s/ Corneliu Bogdan
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              %o of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and                 8,000,000          100% of foreign
spare parts                                       expenditures
for industrial
rehabilitation
(2)  Equipment for                  9,000,000          100% of foreign
rehabilitation                                    expenditures and
of mines and                                      100% of local ex-
transport                                         penditures ex-
factory
(3)  Unallocated                    3,000,000
TOTAL        20,0000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory and in the currency of any country other than
Romania; and


﻿11
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
Romania and for goods and services supplied from the territory of Romania.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, Romania on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures incurred before August 1, 1975, on account
of items included in Category (1), and other expenditures incurred prior to the
date of this Agreement.
5.    Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be accompanied
by a certificate issued by the Borrower by which the Borrower certifies that the
withdrawal is requested on account of an investment included in the Project and
that such investment has been approved by the authority competent to give such
approval under Romanian law; the certificate shall be in a form agreed upon
between the Bank and the Borrower.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿12
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
1. technically feasible and economically justifiable investments in mining and
industrial enterprises selected by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower, comprising replacement of flood-damaged machinery and spare
parts, repair to damaged buildings and infrastructure, reopening of mines
blocked by silt, and replenishment of damaged and lost inventories, all as
required to repair the production and marketing facilities that were damaged
as a result of the floods that occurred in mid-1975; and
2.    reconstruction of transport works damaged by said floods, consisting of about
120 km of national highways (including 18 bridges) to be reconstructed to
7-meter paved standards and about 270 km of railroads (including 20
bridges).
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1978                                     275,000
May 15, 1979                                          285,000
November 15, 1979                                     295,000
May 15, 1980                                          310,000
November 15, 1980                                     320,000
May 15, 1981                                          335,000
November 15, 1981                                     350,000
May 15, 1982                                          365,000
November 15, 1982                                     380,000
May 15, 1983                                          395,000
November 15, 1983                                     415,000
May 15, 1984                                          430,000
November 15, 1984                                     450,000
May 15, 1985                                          470,000
November 15, 1985                                     490,000
May 15, 1986                                          510,000
November 15, 1986                                     530,000
May 15, 1987                                          555,000
November 15, 1987                                     575,000
May 15, 1988                                          600,000
November 15, 1988                                     625,000
May 15, 1989                                          655,000
November 15, 1989                                     680,000
May 15, 1990                                          710,000
November 15, 1990                                     740,000
May 15, 1991                                          770,000
November 15, 1991                                     805,000
May 15, 1992                                          840,000
November 15, 1992                                     875,000
May 15, 1993                                          910,000
November 15, 1993                                     950,000
May 15, 1994                                          990,000
November 15, 1994                                    1,035,000
May 15, 1995                                         1,080,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿15
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          7-1/2%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                             8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for equipment for rehabilitation of mines and transport shall be
awarded under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Other contracts. All other equipment and spare parts shall be of at least
the same technical standards as those which they shall replace. Contracts for such
items shall, after solicitation of bids from potential suppliers from at least three
countries other than Romania on the basis of bid invitations consistent with the
provisions of the Guidelines, be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 4.3 through 4.10 of the Guidelines, unless this would be technically
impossible, in which event such items shall be procured by prudent shopping.
3.    Grouping of bids. Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose of bidding and
procurement.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿17
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Romania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction- of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Romania.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside Romania.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15%/c of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Romanian foreign trade enterprise
concerned shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the procedures to be followed for the bidding, and, under the


﻿18
procedures described in Part A.2 of this Schedule, a list of the suppliers from
which bids are to be solicited, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been evaluated, the foreign trade enterprise concerned
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the names
of the bidders and the respective amounts of their bids and of the name of the
bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the foreign
trade enterprise concerned and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not without the Bank's
concurrence materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification was invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Ba-.nIk of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the foreign trade enterprise
concerned shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with an analysis of all bids received, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the foreign trade enterprise concerned
and state the reasons for such determination.


