FILE COPY                          o     RE§UtED 10 R
lDOCUMENTO;NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1612a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia)
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
and
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE
(Self-Managing Republic Interest Community for Roads of-the Socialist Republic of Montenegro)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 25, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                    Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                             Din. 16.00
Din. 1                           us$o.0625
Din. 1,000                       US$62.50
Din. 1,000,000                   US$62,500.00
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13,
1973. The currency equivalents given above are as
of September 30, 197h. The Yugoslav Central Bank
established on October 29, 1974 a new intervention
rate of US$1.00 equal to Dinars 17.23.
Fiscal Year                      January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia),
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Serbia)
and
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE
(Self-Managing Republic Interest Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Montenegro)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, the
Association of Enterprises for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Serbia, and
the Self-Managing Republic Interest Community for Roads of the Socialist
Republic of Montenegro, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$40.0 million to help finance a seventh
highway project. The loan would have a term of 23 years, including three and
one-half years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.    Of the
loan, $100,000 would be set aside for technical assistance; a portion of this
sum would be held by the three Borrowers for their share, and the balance re-
lent to the other republican and provincial road organizations, or subsidiary
borrowers. 1/ The portion relent to the subsidiary borrowers would be deter-
mined by the expenditures in this category incurred for their benefit or for
institutions located in their territory. The relending terms would be the
same as those of the Bank Loan.
1/   These are:
(i)  Republicki Fond za Puteve S.R. Bosne i Hercegovine, Sarajevo
(Republic Road Fund of Bosnia and Herzegovina);
(ii) Republicki Fond za Ceste S.R. Hrvatske, Zagreb (Republic Road
Fund of Croatia);
(iii)  Republicki Fond za Patista S.R. Makedonije, Skopje (Republic
Roa:d Fund of Macedonia);
(iv)  Saviet az Puteve ASP Vojvodine, Novi Sad (Provincial Road
Council - Vojvodina); and
(v)  Preduzece za Puteve ASP Kosovo, Pristina (Provincial Road
Enterprise - Kosovo).
The use in the text of "road organizations" refers to both the borrowers
and these subsidiary borrowers.



PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" tR74-1) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic updating
mission visited the country in October 1974 and its findings are reflected
in this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth and significant
structural change during the past two decades. GDP at constant prices in-
creased by about 5.5 percent per year and per capita GDP by over 4.5 percent
per year. Average per capita GDP is estimated at around US$890 (1973). The
number of people engaged in agriculture has decreased both absolutely and as
a percentage of the labor force, while the number engaged in industry and
services has correspondingly increased. However in 1971 nearly half of the
labor force was still engaged in agriculture, most of it on small private
farms. Industry accounted for 23 percent and services for 22 percent of the
labor force. About 10 percent were working abroad or unemployed.
4.        Two important features of the economy have been strengthened by the
recent constitutional changes. Self-management, whereby the means of produc-
tion used by different workers' collectives are given to them to manage, has
emerged as the fundamental right and obligation of every basic unit of orga-
nized labor in whatever sector. Second, the responsibility for most important
economic and social policy decisions has been delegated to the Republics and
Provinces. Against this background, Yugoslavia has placed increasing reliance
on the market mechanism and the opening-up of the economy to international
trade.
5.        The leading role in economic and social development has been played
by the social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and institu-
tions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, and which accounts
for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. All
the enterprises and institutions are under workers' self-management and re-
sources are under social ownership. There is a private sector predominantly
comprised-of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit on land holdings) and
small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of non-family workers),
mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport and tourism. In the
past the private sector has been relatively neglected by government policy.
However, the government has lately been devoting more attention to private
farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural production.



- 3 -
6.        Despite a policy of fostering accelerated growth in the less-
developed regions, major differences persist in the levels of development
among Republics. The more-developed regions are located in the north and
include 65 percent of the population. But even this area includes sizeable
pockets of poverty, particularly in private agriculture. The less-developed
regions are in the south and are generally more mountainous and less densely
populated. This makes agriculture and transportation more difficult. The
southern regions are rich in minerals, coal and hydro-power generating poten-
tial. The development of these resources has provided the major stimulus for
growth.
7.        Although the economy of the less-developed regions has been growing
at almost the same rate as the more advanced areas, per capita income has
lagged behind because of faster population growth (1.6 percent per year as
compared with 0.7 percent in the more-developed regions). Consequently,
regional inequalities have widened. Average per capita GDP in the less-
developed regions now amounts to about 50 percent of that of the rest of the
country. Yugoslavia's development policy aims at reducing regional inequal-
ities by transferring investment funds from the more advanced to the less-
developed regions. In 1972 these transfers amounted to almost US$300 mil-
lion, about one-third of the less-developed regions' total investment ex-
penditure.
8.        In addition to significant regional income differences there are
substantial sectoral income differences. For example, per capita GDP in pri-
vate agriculture in Kosovo (by far the poorest region), is just over US$100
or about one-ninth of the national average. Many private farmers there sup-
plement their incomes by working in the social sector but are, nevertheless,
unable to maintain an adequate standard of living. Although incomes in pri-
vate agriculture are somewhat higher in other parts of the country, they re-
main far below those obtaining in non-agricultural activities.
9.        Thus far, the employment situation in Yugoslavia has remained man-
ageable not least because of the sizeable temporary migration abroad which,
since 1972 has stabilized at a level of about 1.1 million. Open unemployment
was estimated to be around 3.5 percent of the resident active population in
mid-1974, and in the private agricultural sector there was severe underem-
ployment. There is considerable public concern about the size and composi-
tion of the emigrant labor force. The Government expects that the economy
has now reached a level and momentum of development which should create an
annual increase of domestic employment exceeding the natural increase in
the labor force and policies are being introduced to encourage the return
of skilled and educated workers and those who have been abroad for some
time. However, due to an economic slowdown in major recipient countries,
job opportunities abroad may decline and migrant workers may return faster
than intended with potentially negative effects on domestic unemployment
and on the balance of payments.



-4-
Recent Developments
10.       Rapid economic growth since 1968 was accompanied by inflation and
balance of payments problems. Many enterprises experienced financial diffi-
culties primarily as a result of over-zealous investment programs and a lack
of financial discipline. To counter inflation and improve the external pay-
ments position, the Government, in 1972 and 1973, adopted measures aimed at
restricting monetary expansion, limiting public expenditure, temporarily
strengthening price controls, reducing the growth of personal income, im-
proving the financial structure of enterprises and imposing limitations on
external borrowing. In addition, to neutralize the inflationary pressure on
the balance of payments, the dinar was devalued by 16.6 percent in January
1971, and again by 18.8 percent in December 1971. The dinar has been floating
since July 1973 and on October 29, 1974 the Yugoslav Central Bank established
a new intervention rate of US$1.00 equal to Dinars 17.23, an effective deval-
uation of 7 percent.
11.       As a result of these measures economic growth slowed from 8.8 per-
cent in 1971 to 4.4 percent in 1972 and 5.1 percent in 1973. Exports in-
creased during the same period at significantly higher rates than imports.
Aided by a sharp rise in workers' remittances (up 36 percent in 1972) the
current account showed a surplus of US$419 million in 1972, the first sur-
plus since 1965. A current account surplus was again achieved in 1973 ($464
million). Foreign exchange reserves increased from the equivalent of about
one month's merchandise imports in 1971, to nearly 4 months by the end of
1973. There was no slowdown in the rate of inflation, however, and most
prices continued to rise at the rate of 15-20 percent per year through 1973.
12.       In 1974 economic growth picked up again (reaching an estimated an-
nual rate of 81percent). This higher growth rate was accompanied by a recur-
rence of the difficulties associated with rapid growth, further amplified by
the changes in the international trade situation. The pace of inflation
accelerated and the annual rate of increase in the leading indicator--the
overall producer price index--rose to approximately 30 percent. Liquidity
problems in enterprises associated with the rapid increase of the invest-
ment rate began to reappear. The balance of payments deteriorated due to
the coincidence of worsening terms of trade, slow growth of commodity ex-
ports to countries in the convertible currency area, and stagnation of real
net exports of invisibles. As a result, a current account deficit of about
$1 billion is estimated for 1974.
13.       The Social Development Plan for 1971-75 projected an average GDP
growth of 7.5 percent per year in real terms but it is clear that this will
not be realized. Even if economic growth in the last two years of the period
reached that level, average growth during the five years would amount to
around 6.8 percent, due to the slowdown associated with the 1972/73 stabil-
ization measures. Given the slow population increase this would still be
rather high, and would compare well with growth during the preceding five-
year plan period (4.7 percent per year).



-5-
The Energy Sector
14.       On a caloric basis abouit two-thirds of Yugoslavia's energy needs in
1973 were met from domestic sources. Domestically-mined coal remains an im-
portant source of fuel. Practically all thermal power plants are coal-fired.
About one-third of the oil consumed is of domestic origin. Yugoslavia gen-
erates more than half of its electricity from hydro plants despite the fact
that only about 30 percent of its hydro power potential has been developed.
The shortages of electricity that are emerging are not due to the lack of
hydro generation potential, coal or oil, but rather to insufficient plant
capacity and delayed construction. National energy policy emphasizes maximum
development of domestic resources to curb the need for imported energy.
Federal agencies are preparing studies to coordinate this development for
the most efficient use of resources.
15.       In spite of Yugoslavia's relatively low dependence on imported oil,
increases in the price of oil are bound to affect the government's efforts
to improve the external payments position. In 1973 oil imports amounted to
US$259 million, or 6 percent of commodity imports. For 1974 oil import pay-
ments were of the order of US$900 million, at an average c.i.f. price of
US$100 per metric ton - m.t. (US$13 per barrel), equivalent to about 13 per-
cent of imports of goods and services. The impact on the balance of payments
has been to contribute to a substantial current account deficit in 1974, which
will continue in later years, instead of the surpluses Yugoslavia has enjoyed
recently.
16.       The indirect consequences of the world energy crisis are unclear.
On the positive side the availability of coal and hydropower resources should
improve the country's international competitive position, although their de-
velopment would require heavy investment with long gestation periods. On the
other hand job opportunities for Yugoslavs working abroad may diminish as eco-
nomic growth in Western Europe slows down. Returning migrant workers would
exacerbate unemployment and housing problems and workers' remittances, which
have played a dynamic role in the economy, may suffer. Moreover, stagnation
in economic activity abroad could affect Yugoslavia's exports. Although the
rise in the cost of automobile and air transportation might unfavorably in-
fluence tourism, preliminary 1974 data show foreign tourist visits about equal
to 1973 and foreign exchange earnings slightly higher. These conflicting
trends are being watched carefully by the Yugoslav authorities and the Bank.
Capital Requirements
17.       Yugoslavia is dependent to a large degree on imported equipment for
its economic development and the country has borrowed substantial amounts
abroad. Gross capital inflows have more than tripled during the last five
years, reaching US$1,186 million in 1973, mostly in medium-term commercial
credit. However, due to rapidly rising amortization payments, an increase
of US$746 million in gross inflows between 1967 and 1972 resulted in an in-
crease in the net inflow of only US$224 million. The growing discrepancy



- 6 -
between gross and net inflows reflects a shift, following the 1965 Economic
Reforms, from long-term official loans to medium-term commercial credits as
a result of the limited availability of official capital and the liberaliza-
tion of foreign trade and borrowing. The United States, the Federal Republic
of Germany, Switzerland, Italy and the United Kingdom have provided most of
the commercial credits. IBRD, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the USSR
have been the principal sources of long-term official capital.
18.       Until recently it was thought that much of the foreign exchange
needed to finance inmports would come from the growth of exports of goods and
invisibles.  However, deteriorating terms of trade - adversely affected by price
rises for petroleum and other basic raw materials - and the slowdown in Western
Europe, make it doubtful whether this source will continue to expand at its
previous high rate and the country will, therefore, need to maintain a high
level of foreign borrowing. Its gross medium- and long-term capital require-
ments are tentatively estimated at between US$2.0 and 2.5 billion per year
during 1974-79. Around US$500-600 million of this may be provided in the form
of official development assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources.
The remainder will come mainly from foreign banks and suppliers. Raising such
large sums will be a formidable challenge, but Yugoslavia's success in the
past in obtaining the funds it requires from the capital markets, and its con-
tinued good credit standing, give grounds for confidence that it will be able
to obtain the capital inflow required to finance its development efforts.
Creditworthiness
19.       In spite of the present unsettled international conditions, the
prospects for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade
are good. The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its rela-
tively low dependence on imported energy sources, its pragmatic approach to
economic problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, com-
bine to give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects.
20.       External public and publicly-guaranteed debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1973 was US$1,912 million. In addition there was US$2,407 mil-
lion non-public external debt outstanding. Total (public and non-public) debt
service payments in 1973 were equivalent to 13.5 percent of foreign exchange
earnings i'ncluding workers' remittances. With external borrowing projected
at around US$2 billion per year during 1974-76 with a rising trend, the debt
service ratio (public and non-public) is expected to gradually increase over
the next few years. Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and
the measures taken in the past to control balance of payments problems, as
well as the prospective growth of production and foreign exchange earnings,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
21.       Many of the high priority projects in Yugoslavia have a low foreign
exchange component due to the relatively advanced state of Yugoslav industry
and the competitiveness of Yugoslav contractors. Were the Bank to confine



its lending to the foreign exchange costs of projects, an adequate contribu-
tion to Yugoslavia's external capital needs could be made only by spreading
the lending over a large number of projects, including some of lesser prior-
ity. Therefore it seems reasonable to provide for some measure of local ex-
penditure financing in the Bank's lending program, especially for projects
concentrated in the less developed regions. The proposed project includes
a small element of local cost financing which is described in more detail in
paragraph 43.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
22.       The Bank has made 34 loans totalling about US$1,141 million to
Yugoslavia. Of this amount approximately 50 percent (US$531.4 million) has
been for 12 loans for the transportation sector - six for highways totalling
US$180 million, four for railways totalling US$248 million, US$59.4 million
for the Naftagas pipeline and $44 million for the Port of Bar Project. Bank
lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition
to the transportation loans, power (four loans totalling US$198 million)
telecommunications (one loan for US$40 million), three multipurpose projects
totalling US$103 million and US$6 million for the Dubrovnik Water Supply and
Wastewater project. Nine loans have also been made for industry, two for
tourism and two for agriculture (one for agricultural industries in Macedonia
and the other for agricultural credit). IFC has made eight investments in
Yugoslavia totalling about US$80 million.
23.       In the past few years delays in loan effectiveness have hampered
project implementation. To some extent delays are inevitable since the
clearance of loan documents involves all the Republics and Provinces in every
case. Thus conditions of effectiveness can rarely be met speedily regardless
of how well the ground is prepared. Following the adoption of a new constitu-
tion last year, the Federal Government is drawing up plans for revised proce-
dures which would simplify the loan ratification process and enable project
implementation to get underway more quickly. In the meantime steps have been
taken to speed up the existing clearance procedure. All six loans approved
in FY74 have been declared effective and disbursements have started under all
of them. Disbursements generally have picked up substantially and have been
running at a rate in excess of $100 million per annum over the past six
months. There have been delays in the execution of several projects particu-
larly the Belgrade-Bar railway project and the Bernardin and Babin Kuk tourism
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of May 31, 1975 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
24.       The major objectives of Bank lending to Yugoslavia are to accelerate
development in the less-developed regions of the country; to promote agricul-
tural development, particularly among the small private farmers by providing
basic infrastructure credit for the financing of farm development, equipment



- 8 -
and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms in major sectors of
the economy through improved coordination and the strengthening of institu-
tions; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external capital and thus
reduce the country's dependence on short-term external borrowings.    These
objectives are basically the same as those which have guided Bank lending in
previous years, but efforts to give special support to the less-developed
regions and the small farmers are being strengthened.
25.       Over the next two years loans envisaged for less developed areas
include an urban pollution control project for the city of Sarajevo and two
major multipurpose projects. Highway, railway, power transmission and oil
pipeline projects during the same period will both assist the less-developed
regions and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy sectors.
IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encour-
age joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing
expertise as well as long-term capital.
26.       In addition to substantial assistance given in identifying and pre-
paring projects for Bank financing, the Bank is providing technical assistance
in several areas. A series of regional studies of the four less-developed re-
gions of Yugoslavia was initiated two years ago and two studies, covering
Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina, have been completed. A third study, of
Macedonia, was commenced in April this year. This series, when completed,
will contribute to better assessment of development programs and will assist
in formulating development strategies for these regions. Other current ac-
tivities include assistance with a study on the Yugoslav capital market de-
signed to help improve resource mobilization and allocation, and assistance
for a training program for auditors of the Social Accounting Service, which
audits all enterprises and Government activities, including Bank financed
projects. Assistance from EDI, as well as the Bank, has been directed
towards the improvement of project evaluation; this objective is also im-
plicit in most Bank loans to Yugoslavia.
27.       The level of Bank lending has risen substantially and is expected
to average about US$200 million during the period FY74-76. Although this
represents only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance,
it would be equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official
capital inflow in convertible currencies. The outstanding debt to the Bank
is expected to remain at less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external
debt. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service would in-
crease from 3.2 percent in 1973 to 4.8 percent in 1976.



PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
28.       The development of Yugoslavia's transport system was shaped by
the country's topography. The major routes developed along the Sava-Danube
valley in the north and avoided the mountains in the central and southern
regions. This influence, together with different historical development
between the northern and southern regions, had resulted by the early twentieth
century in an unbalanced distribution of transport infrastructure: while the
northern regions already had a sound transport system, the system in the
southern regions remained underdeveloped. The transport system was heavily
damaged during the Second World War and its reconstruction was a major task
during the first postwar decade. Since then the transport networks have been
substantially expanded, through construction and modernization of the national
trunk routes, both for railways and highways, and through expansion of port
facilities on the Adriatic coast. Today Yugoslavia has a well-diversified sys-
tem comprising 10,400 km of railways, 98,000 km of roads, 15 airports, 5
major seaports and a sizeable network of inland waterways. The roads and
railways are the backbone of the transport system, together carrying some 90
percent of the total freight and 95 percent of passenger traffic in 1972.
29.       In spite of many physical improvements during the last decade, the
development of transport infrastructure in general has not been adequate to
meet the rapidly growing demand. The railways offer slow service; many of
the roads are below standard; and the capacity of some ports needs to be
expanded. These deficiencies are partly due to the relatively low priority
given to the sector by Government authorities and inadequate investments in
transport infrastructure. The administration and development of the sector
have been also affected by the political and economic decentralization in the
1960's in which the responsibility for the sector was transferred from the
Federal Government to the Republics and Provinces. The regional authorities
could only gradually strengthen their own institutions to meet their respons-
ibilities, particularly for institutional arrangements for financing the sector.
The decentralization weakened transport administration, coordination and plan-
ning. It also aggravated the difficulties faced by many enterprises in the
sector, particularly the railways, in mobilizing funds for investment.
30.       The economic reforms of the 1960's facilitated the liberalization
of the transport industry. From 1960 to 1970 passenger and freight traffic
grew at annual rates of about 10 and 7 percent, respectively. While the
reforms encouraged growth, they brought about structural changes. Passenger
and freight traffic on the roads, benefiting greatly from the liberalization
policies, grew at 23 and 20 percent, respectively, while for railways the
comparable figures were 0 and 2.5 percent. Today the roads carry 51 percent
and 77 percent of the freight and passenger traffic, respectively, compared
to the railways' 39 and 18 percent.



- 10 -
31.       The Yugoslav system, characterized by decentralization of the econ-
omic and social units, has made it difficult in recent years to coordinate
policy for the development of the transport sector as a whole. The policies
that are pursued, such as the freedom of choice by users to select their
transport mode and competition in a market economy among autonomous transport
enterprises, reflect the nation's prevailing economic climate. In 1971 a
Federal Secretariat for Transport and Communications was established to facil-
itate more coordinated development of the sector, but it has been unable,
with its limited authority, to perform this role effectively. While the
Yugoslav authorities are increasingly aware of the need for more coordination
in highway development, the rapid constitutional changes have made it difficult
to find a suitable formula which would provide effective coordination at the
national level and which is also acceptable to the Republics and Provinces.
The Federal Government agreed in the sixth Highway Loan to take steps to co-
ordinate planning and investments in the highway sector and among transport
modes, but the specific actions that can be taken depend on agreement between
the Republics and Provinces and various transport organizations concerned.
At present the structure of the road organizations within Yugoslavia is still
under discussion and subject to change. The former Road Funds (see paragraph
35) are becoming road communities, which involve greater participation by
consumers in decision making, and other changes that are expected to affect
the coordination of planning and investments are anticipated by the end of
1976. In the meantime the Bank continues to emphasize the need for coordina-
tion with the Yugoslav authorities. In the proposed loan it has been agreed
that the Council of Republic and Provincial Road Organizations (CRO), formed
in 1971, would act as fiscal agent for the loan and would administer the
training component, as under the Sixth Highway Loan, as well as coordinate
procurement (Sections 2.10, 4.01, and Schedule 8 of the Loan Agreement). The
organization of CRO and its role in coordinating highway development are
described more fully in paragraphs 36 and 37. Within various transport modes
coordination is improving, primarily through voluntary and informal associa-
tions among the enterprises, and among the Republics and Provinces. Although
the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) and the CRO are not comparable in
status and role, the development of CYR offers an encouraging example for the
highway and port sub-sectors.
32.       Bank lending to the transport sector has aimed at providing finan-
cial assistance for priority infrastructure projects, for which funds are
generally scarce. Another important objective has been to improve coordina-
tion of sector investment and planning through bodies like CYR and CRO. The
present loan would contribute to this goal, as did the Fourth Loan for rail-
ways and the Loan for the expansion of the port facilities at Bar, both made
in the first half of FY75.
The Hlighway Sub-Sector
33.       Prior to 1955, the development of road transport was rather limited
under a Government policy which accorded priority to the railways. Since
then, both the vehicle fleet and traffic have grown rapidly, reflecting
steady economic growth and encouraged by the liberalization of the transport



- 11 -
sector: road traffic trebled between 1960 and 1965, and doubled again
between 1967 and 1972. The highway network has also increased from 82,000
km, in the late 1950's, to 98,000 km by 1973, and paved roads increased from
5,000 km in 1958 to 33,000 in 1973. Despite these rapid improvements, the
highway network is still characterized by low density of paved roads, par-
ticularly in the less-developed regions; it is, for the most part, inadequate
for the current and projected traffic volume. Many paved roads, having
evolved from gravel roads, are sub-standard and without adequate foundations.
Other paved roads are already congested.
34.       Highway expenditures for investment and maintenance have increased
steadily over the last decade, but they have not been sufficient in view of
the existing backlog and the rapid expansion and modernization of the econ-
omy. Highway expenditures increased from about US$100 million per annum
during 1966-70, to an average of about US$250 million per annum under the
current 1971-75 five-year plan. Actual annual expenditures during 1972
amounted to US$230 million and in 1973 to US$250 million. However, these
increases are modest compared to the need. Since the mid-1960's, when the
Federal Government's responsibility for financing highway expenditures was
transferred to the Republics and Provinces, highway financing has tended to
depend to some extent on ad hoc resource mobilization. The main sources of
highway financing are the earmarked revenues from fuel taxes, which provided
about 54 percent of the total highway expenditures in 1973. The other
sources include contributions by the Republics, Provinces and Communes, the
Federal Fund for Financing the Accelerated Development of Less-Developed
Regions, and loans from the local banks and the World Bank.
35.       Administration of the highway sub-sector underwent drastic changes,
from a centralized system to a decentralized one, as the responsibility of the
Federal Government was transferred to the Republics and Provinces in 1968.
Since then, Road Funds, Road Councils or Road Enterprises (Serbia and Kosovo)
were established as the responsible agency for planning, design, construction
and maintenance of all public roads in their territory, except those local roads
which are constructed and maintained by communes. The Road Funds, now being
called Communities, have generally large staffs and are directly involved in
highway planning, project preparation and supervision. The Road Councils,
with more limited staffs, do some planning, but their primary function is
supervision of road maintenance. The Road Funds, Councils and Enterprises
are managed by boards, whose members represent trading and business enter-
prises, consulting firms, individual exporters, and the republic and local
governments. They generally function as administrative and supervisory
agencies, employing consultants for pre-investment and engineering studies,
and contracting out construction work and maintenance.
36.       The CRO, established by the Road Funds, Councils and Enterprises
to deal with technical and financial matters of common interest, has been the
principal coordinator of the highway sub-sector since its founding in 1971.
It is an informal association with no permanent secretariat of its own, but
it has been active in standardization of engineering design, data collection
and other technical matters. It has also been instrumental in the preparation
of uniform guidelines for feasibility studies. The current five-year highway



- 12 -
development plan (1971-75) was prepared by the CRO, but it is essentially a
consolidation of the individual plans of the Republics and Provinces, since
CRO has no independent authority in formulating policy or establishing plans
for highway development.
37.       Since the first loan in 1963, the Bank has made six loans for high-
ways. The first three projects (Loans 344-YU, 485-YU and 608-YU) were com-
pleted in 1966, 1971 and 1974 respectively. The others (Loans 678-YU, 751-YU
and 990-YU), are under construction (see Annex II). Implementation of all
these projects has been satisfactory, although the third, fourth and fifth
projects have experienced cost increases ranging from 8 to 12 percent due to
inflation. Since the Third Highway Project in 1969, the Bank has maintained
a close dialogue with the Yugoslav authorities concerning the institutional
problems, and has played a role in the establishment of the Federal Committee
for Transport and Communications and the CRO. In order to improve project
preparation and to provide a sound basis for planning, the Fifth Project in-
cluded a staff training component, as do the Sixth and the proposed project,
aimed at improving the capacity of the road organizations' staff to prepare
highway studies. The Federal Government agreed under the Sixth Highway Loan
in 1974 that uniform guidelines would be applied in the preparation of
feasibility studies for major highways and that a competent institution would
be charged with screening these feasibility studies. These guidelines were
used for the preparation of feasibility studies for the proposed loan; and
the studies were screened by the CRO. The present highway project was better
prepared than the previous ones, although the quality of feasibility studies
still needs to be improved. The goals of improved project preparation and
provision of a sound basis for planning will continue to guide future Bank
lending for highway projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       In April, 1974 the Federal Government requested Bank assistance in
financing the construction of about 235 km of highway in the Socialist
Republics of Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, and Slovenia, and in the
Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo. All of these were top priority road
sections featured in the 1971-75 Middle Term Highway Plans of the respective
Republics and Province. From these sections the Bank has selected 90 km of
highways in Montenegro, Serbia, and Slovenia as the most suitable for Bank
financing at this juncture. The others were not included because of sub-
marginal rates of return and need for further preparation. The feasibility
studies for the highways in Montenegro and Serbia were prepared by the Road
Research Institute of Belgrade and the study for the Slovenian Highway was
carried out by the consultant firm Dorsch-Berger of the Federal Republic of
Germany and the U.S. Following a pre-appraisal mission in May-June 1974,
the project was appraised in November/December 1974. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. in May 1975. The Yugoslav Delegation was led by Mr. Lojze
Blenkus, President of the CRO and Director of the Republic Community for Roads



- 13 -
of Slovenia, and included representatives of the Governments and road organi-
zations of Slovenia, Serbia, and Montenegro, as well as the Federal Secretar-
iat for Finance and the Federal Committee for Traffic.
39.       The purposes of the project, which is described in detail in the Ap-
praisal Report entitled "Appraisal of a Seventh Highway Project, Yugoslavia,"
dated June 17, 1975, and summarized in Annex III to this report, would be
to:
(a) relieve congestion on two highways of international
importance in Slovenia and Serbia by upgrading the pre-
sent two-lane highways to four-lane divided highways;
(b) upgrade the highway between Titograd, the capital of
Montenegro, and Niksic, an important industrial center; and
(c) provide training to improve the preparation of highway fea-
sibility studies.
Borrowers and Project Execution
40.       The Borrowers would be the road organizations of Slovenia, Monte-
negro, and Serbia, each being responsible for the amount of the loan allocated
to it. These organizations operate on the basis of annual work programs
derived from the five-year programs and financial plans that have been approv-
ed by the Republican and Provincial Assemblies. They are responsible for all
public roads in their respective jurisdictions, except those local roads
under the jurisdiction of the communes, and accordingly the respective organ-
izations would be responsible for construction and supervision of the project
road sections. All have participated satisfactorily in previous Bank loans.
Supervision of construction would be carried out by Yugoslav consulting en-
gineers and technical institutes that have already done the detailed engineer-
ing for the project.
41.       The CR0 would act as fiscal and coordinating agent for the loan.
As under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Loans, the CR0 would also carry out staff
training in the preparation of highway feasibility studies. About 12 man-
months of services by expatriate transportation economists would be provided
to assist the staff of the road organizations and related institutes with the
application of the "Guidelines" (see paragraph 36) and to assist in overall
highway planning. The portion of the loan set aside for training would be
allocated through a Relending Agreement between the Borrowers and the other
participating road organizations and the CR0. The execution of a satisfactory
Relending Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment (Section 8.01 (c)).
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties, is es-
timated at US$117.4 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$37.0



- 14 -
million. The costs of the road sections (not including contingencies) are
as follows: Slovenia - $25.1 million, Serbia - $30.7 million, and Montenegro
- $24.9 million. A price contingency of 32 percent for construction assumes
annual price increases of 17 percent in 1975, 14 in 1976, and 12 percent in
both 1977 and 1978 for both foreign and local costs. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10 percent.
43.       The foreign exchange cost estimate is based on the assumption that
local enterprises would win all the construction contracts under internation-
al bidding, as under previous loans. The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million
would finance 34 percent of total project costs, including US$3.0 million of
local costs. Twenty-seven percent of the loan would go to Slovenia, thirty-
six percent to Serbia, and thirty-seven percent to MIontenegro, thus allocat-
ing 73 percent to the less developed regions. Since Montenegro is one of the
least developed areas in Yugoslavia, it would receive the US$3.0 million of
local cost financing, which would be used for civil works. This is in accord
with the Bank's policy of special support for the less developed republics.
Montenegro is currently heavily committed to mobilizing resources for trans-
portation projects, including the Belgrade/Bar Railway and the Port of Bar.
Each Republic would finance its share of the remaining local costs estimated
at US$77.4 million. Local costs of construction would be met by the road
organizations of the Republics of Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro, and the
local costs of the training component of the project would be financed by
them and the other participating road organizations. A condition of effec-
tiveness would be that the three Republics have each given guarantees to pro-
vide funds for their individual parts of the project, including cost over-
runs (Section 8.01 (a)). An additional condition of effectiveness would be
that for all three Republics the necessary regulations authorizing the con-
struction of the road sections and providing financial resources for the ex-
ecution of the project are in full force and effect (Section 8.01 (b)). The
proposed loan would include retroactive financing of US$140,000 for the pre-
paratory works for a tunnel, which is part of the subproject in Montenegro.
Completion of these preparatory works in advance of the major tunnel works
will shorten the construction period by about nine months.
Procurement
44.       Construction contracts on the basis of unit prices would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines for Procurement. Prequalification procedures for all three subprojects
began in June 1975. Bids for the construction contracts would be invited in
August 1975 and contracts are expected to be awarded in December 1975. The
contracts would include price escalation clauses.
Disbursements
45.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would finance:     (a) 30 per-
cent of the civil works contracts in Slovenia, 32 percent of those in Serbia,
41 percent of those in Montenegro, and (b) 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of technical assistance. The higher percentage for Montenegro again
reflects the Bank's policy of special support to the less developed republics.



- 15 -
Environmental Impact
46.       None of the three project roads would adversely affect the environ-
ment. The alignment of the new Titograd-Niksic road would allow traffic to
Niksic from the Adriatic coast and from Albania to bypass Titograd, thus re-
lieving the urban area from traffic noise and air pollution.
Justification
47.       The project road sections would help to meet the heavy transporta-
tion demand generated by Yugoslavia's growing manufacturing and tourism in-
dustries. The existing highways in the project areas are inadequate for both
present and forecast traffic volumes, and without the improvements provided
for in the project, bottlenecks would arise. In Slovenia, the subproject is
part of the country's primary highway network, serving both internal and in-
ternational traffic. Traffic on this road is expected to grow at between
5-9 percent annually over the next 20 years. The economic rate of return
for this subproject would be 20.5 percent. The Serbian subproject would
also form part of Yugoslavia's primary highway network, serving not only
domestic traffic but the transit of major commodities across Europe. These
sections in Serbia are already badly congested, and traffic on them is ex-
pected to grow at annual rates between 4 and 11 percent over the next twenty
years. The economic rates of return on the Serbian section would range be-
tween 19 and 49 percent. The project road in Montenegro is a main artery of
that Republic, leading partly over very rough terrain. The road and the ad-
jacent railway handle most of the traffic for four major local industries -
a bauxite mine near Niksic, an aluminum plant in Titograd, and an iron and
steel plant and a brewery at Niksic, that are, to a considerable extent,
export-oriented. The railway is of low standard and limited capacity and its
improvement would require a substantial investment. The present road and
railway cannot cope with the projected expansion of the local industries.
The new road would offer considerable economies for the transport of bauxite,
the major freight component between Niksic and Titograd, which can be trucked
directly from the mines to the refinery at Titograd. Total traffic would
double between 1973 and 1980 and by 1985 traffic is expected to increase by
another 50 percent over 1980. The benefits from the improvements derive
largely from savings in vehicle operating costs and time savings. The econo-
mic returns are 15 percent and 19 percent for the two subsections of the road.
48.       Benefits accruing from the staff training are not quantifiable.
They would be of a long-term nature, arising from improvements in highway
planning, project preparation and administration of the sub-sector. The
participation of CR0, as the coordinator and executor of the training under
the project, is expected to reinforce the contributions of earlier Bank loans
to institution-building in this sub-sector. In particular the CRO's partici-
pation in the project would help improve overall highway planning.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic Community
for Roads of Slovenia, the Self-Managing Republic Interest Community for Roads
of Montenegro, and the Association of Enterprises for Roads of Serbia, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic and the Bank,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
50.       The draft Loan Agreement contains the Borrowers' obligation to enter
into a Relending Agreement with other road organizations of the participating
Socialist Republics and Socialist Autonomous Provinces for relending a portion
of the proceeds of the loan allocated for staff training. A feature of the
Loan Agreement of special interest is the role of the CRO, particularly in
relation to coordination of highway development, referred to in paragraphs
36, 37 and 41.
51.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) Republic regulations authorizing the construction and providing
financial resources are in full force and effect (paragraph 43,
Loan Agreement Section 8.01(a));
(b) Republics have given guarantees to provide funds for their part
of the project, including cost overruns (paragraph 43, Loan
Agreement Section 8.01(b));
(c) The execution of a satisfactory Relending Agreement for the
portion of the loan set aside for training (paragraph 41,
Loan Agreement Section 8.01(c)); and
(d) All necessary consents and approvals have been given for the
CRO to act as fiscal agent, administrator of the training com-
ponent, and coordinator of procurement (paragraph 31, Loan
Agreement Section 8.01(d)).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachments                                    President
June 25, 1975



Amnex 1
Page 1
COAJNTRI DIATA - 7000SIA 8I.
AREA                                                  POPULATrON                                    EE90ITT
2    I8ceS.                                      20.77    mlllino  (mid-1972)
202      Per ka2of arable land
SOCIAL. INDICATORS
Reference Countries
'2L Y"" I"ia           Portugal RM_M anlcGr. Fed.Ret
-97               1970         1970         1970
SlP ER   APT   u     A   sRAh      /I                              375              890 L.           780 Is       810 I.     3,390 I.
DFI4OIPAPH'IC
rate (Par thousand)                                  21,              18               20 I.        18    ~    10 .2Li
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                   10               9 L               i     ~      9   ~     1
Inant sorteilty rate (per thoveen     live births)                88              4.3 9i1                         8L    ~   2  L~
Life expectancy at birth (yearn)                                  62               8                6            6938        03   R
Ocone reprodection rat     2                                       .3            1.3                .             3
Popolatton growth rate Z                                         1.2               .               1   P.       10.9/
Population growth rate - urbant
Age structure (percent)                                           3                7   f          2.    a        2   a      2    /
65-6 6n v3                                                                      65             61.    j        6          63
Age dependency ratio /4j                                         0.6                            0   .5~ 06 ~    05L             Z
65an-d~ ovenency-6         84                                                                     9.8.           90        112
Ecoeneic dependency retin ~~~~~~~~~~             1.0             0.9              1.2          0 7     ~     0.
Urban popul.tion us percent of total                              28 /d           39 Itfd          ..12/0.e                 38.1 /h.i
Family plahning~ No. of acnptcr-     uuaie      to,3..
Ne. of users   % of married oceen)            *..
fR.   orce-r   (thounande)                                8,300           8,900 /f         3,100 LI     990         27,        k
Prerentage employed in agriculture                              57              4571              30       9e9             17~:  a
Percentage unnepl.yod33fad7a                                                                       1            0
Pecn  ntRio l Inco... received by highest 5%               17 LO           1    n           ..6ZLi
Percent of national income received by highest 20%                 .1 ~            2 L-.
Percent ot national income received by loest 20%                   7 L      ~       7 L,            .21 zi
Percent Of nr.iOo.ua income received by lowest 40%                19 LB           .19 /n
MSTRINUTION OF LARD o1IIERHip
% owmud by top 105 of owners                                      ..
5 ond by anlleet 10% of owners                                    ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
FbPul.atio  Per phyiciian                                      1,400 a         1,010             1,100          81.0 41      Sic
Population per -.raig person                                     500             L 11              900          200    ~     350
Population per hospital bed                                      190a            180               160          120           90
Per caPita celorie nupply as % of requiremats ~                  115              121              1,18         118          121
Per caPita protein eupply, total (grass per dayyL                 91               912              85           92           80
Of which, Mote1 and pulse                                       27 L29               p0086
Death rate 1-4. Yearsra                                           .   a7          25                                          56. . 21  .
EDUICATION
Adusted /B prboay school enrollment ratio                        91               9195                         109          132
Adjueted Z   eaCorolary school enrollment ratio                   31              45                65           62           61
TeasftIShoolin      Pravided, first and secod level               12               12               13        12-11.       12-15
Vocational en'ollwent as % of sac, school enrollsonnt             72               72               32           58 /.C       48
Adult literacy rnte %                                             77               85A    ~         65 /i       .             9'9 /8.v
7 aaeNo. of persons per roes (urban)                         1.~7 ~            .3  f    ~                   1.3 ~        0.
Percent of oncopied units withmut piped water                     58        e      6         b     .             8                    b 3,
Accesstofelentrinity (as S of total population)                   55   8.j         88     a         85           4.9    ma   i10
Percent of    lal populatim, connected to electricity             36 wa           80     sa         .2              L.8
per' P.   10  population                            81,             171              169/         150 /I       309 
Passenger ca    pr   1~ppltion                                     3               189 1Li                      .             5 
Electrcpsscnutin(wp.)                                            529 L         1,570 Li          1026         1,9314L ,617L
Ne.sPrint consumPtiOn p.c. kg per year                           2.               .2i39                         28L          85L7
Not-s    Pigurse refer elther to the latest periods or to              acon      fento     etal. tsqmprature, body weigtta, an
the latest yearn.   Latest periods refer i. principle to               di.tribotlon by age and a"a of    atinna   PoPolatiana.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in pr~i..           /6   Protein standards (requiremasee) for all sountrias as attb-
cipl. to 1960 and 1970.                                                 liabhd by USDA Eoomnlo Research Serrice prov-ide for a cioic-
a1  The Per Cepite GO   entimate is at market prices for                allowance of 60 greas of total protein per day, and 20 gams of
year   other than 1960,calculated by the eae convernion            animal and pol1s protein, of which 10 grass should be aninal
technique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                            protein.   These  tiandarda are ascawbhat 1eer than those of 75
/2 Average nonber of daughtere per wonen of reproductive                gram  of total protein and 23 gras    of animal protein as an
age.                                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Faud
Z2  Populetion growth raten ar    for the decodes ending in             Surey.
1960 and 1970.                                                 P     osO.  studice have suggested that crude death rtate  of chi dren
Ai  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to popula.             agen 1 thmnogh 4 ma be used as a first appenalmation index of
ticm o      g 15afor                     ra eenec   tio and to laborcton
for.f ages 15-61      age depen dency               laborio  /8aPercentage enrolld of corresponding population of       oh-o1 age
FAO rferece standards represent physiological re-                   as defi-ed frc .ch enutry'.
quirenents for normal actinity and health, taking
/a    1972;   lb   1965-70, UN eatimate;    I.   1973;   /d   For tIe definitio- of urban, Bae U'.KkpD)(hl ~Yearbook ~1971,' page
157;    Ie  Cities, townas and 183 oth~er localitieThaving urban Coi-cnmoch.-. eieIc                      Li19    1.     Rat1o   of
PoPuIlato-n under 15 and 65 end over to Itetl labor force;       /bh  1969;   Li   DefinitIon not available;      I  Esint.nt;
1  E ttL.at  boned on the results of a labor force sample sur~vey;      /I. 1962;    /m   1963;    In  H .useholds;   /.  1960;
Percen t of salaried workers eareiog morn than 2,500 lei;       4a  Porcut of salaried worker      comcing lea. than 1,100 Io,;
7/ Incoodlng eldwives, assitant ru.urce    and aenistant midwives;     L   Includes midwives;     It   1960-72;   /u   1970171;
77    15 yearn and over;    Iw   1961;   /x   1966;   LX  Urban only;     LjUrban end rural;            Pretg        fdelns
7    eturpiped inside;          Fulj_tiL   education;    /Ld  Ratio of   eglotoe-d job nachero to active population;       I.e   1970-72;
7a?   I96-70;    /.I   Including enigsation.
aAlthough RonianisI in the man,e per capita GNP group as Yug-1-ivl, it hoe bean s.eleted aoes the social de-clpocort
pioccing poLciee and population siec arc simila.r in both. Moreo-r, both countries have mj.cr t,Rade tie. with one
SoIcec-ti- of the Federal Rpublic of Ger .my aso - objective country is booed on the close economic ties maintaied by
thetocuris          an well an no the &ot that the greater pert of Yuguslovis'. 800,000 wokrker, who wor            broad, hove
forvd -pc.ply-nt in the Feder.l Republic of Gcr-mo.
R9 June 21. , 1975



ANNEX I
II4PORT DiTAIL                   Page 2
(million US$)
Av.                             1/       2/2
A.   Constant (1972) Prices              1967-69    1972     1973     1974-     1975-    1976-
1.  Food                               131      207      228      259       250      250
2.  Other consumer goods               309      296      295      348       345      370
3.  Petroleum                           83      161      182      205       217      230
4. Other intermediate goods          1,262    1,875    2,116    2,391    2,151     2f76
5. Capitel goods                       547      689      833      922       987    1,056
6. Total goods c.i.f.                2,332    3,227    3,654    4,125     4,303    4,582
7.  Non-factor services                299      594      522      602       638      676
8.  Total goods and NFS              2,631    3,821    14,176   4,727    4,981     5,258
B.   Price Indices (1972 = 100)
1.  Food                              83.9      100    150.6    187.6    197.0     206.9
2.  Other consumer goods              78.9      100    120.5    147.0    163.1     1.79.h
3. Petroleum                          81.1      100    142.5    455.5    505.5     542.5
4.  Other intermediate goods          81.b      100    120.5    167.8    184.2     197.2
5.  Capital goods                     78.9      100    120.5    144.6    160.4     173.5
6. Non-factor services                78.9      100    123.5    154.9    169.6     183.0
C.   Current Prices
1. Food                                110      207      343      486       493      517
2.  Other consumer goods               244      296      356      512       563      664
3.  Petroleum                           68      161      259      934    1,097     1,246
4. Other intermediate goods          1,027    1,875    2,550    4,013    4,686     5,278
5. Capital goods                       432      689    1,004    1,333    1,583     1,832
6. Total goods                       1,880    3,227    4,511    7,278    8,422     9,538
7.  Non-factor services                236      594      657      932    1,082    1,237
8.  Total goods and NFS              2,116    3,821    5,168    8,210    9,5oL   10,774
1/  Estimates.
2/  Projections.
Iay 1, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 3
EXPORT DETAIL
(million US$)
Av.                             1/      2/
A.   Constant (l972) Prices              1966-69    1972     1973     1974-   1975-/   1976-
1.  Meat                              245       247      193       67     100      150
2.  Other agricultural products        54       21        34      40       60       60
3.  Wood                               69        83       68       70      71       72
4.  Steel                              65        51       74       76      79       81
5. Copper                              37        53       33       33      33       33
6.  Other primary metals               71        82       80       81      83       84
7.  Machinery and equipment           375       544      603     664      717      774
8.  Fabrics and clothing              203       274      259      261     296      313
9. All other goods                    597     1,019      918    1,085   1,150    1,253
10. Total goods                     1,714     2,237    2,264    2,377   2,589    2,820
11. Non-factor services               743     1,188    1,249    1,303   1,381    1,464
12. Total goods and NFS             2,457     3,425    3,513    3,680   3,970    4,284
B.   Price Indices (1972 = 100)
1.  Meat                             62.9       100    127.7    140.9    160.4   169.2
2.  Other agricultural products      83.5       100    150.6   186.5     205.2   215.5
3.  Wood                             77.9       100    204.0    218.5    229.4   240.8
4. Steel                             51.3       100    132.0   152.2     165.5   172.2
5.  Copper                           120.5      100    168.9    229.0  ,218.0    221.6
6.  Other primary metals            103.6       100    144.7    205.3    201.0   207.2
7. Machinery and eouipment            78.9      100    120.5    145.6    161.1   173.5
8.  Fabrics and clothing             78.9       100    120.5   137.3     152.3   163.6
9. All other goods                   78.9       100    120.5   171.0    187.9    144.8
10. Total goods                       77.6      100    126.0   162.5     176.9   188.1
11. Non-factor services               78.9      100    123.8   154.9     169.6   183.0
C.   Current Prices
1.  Meat                               154      247      247      94       160     254
2.  Other agricultural commodities      45       21       52       75      123     129
3.  Wood                                53       83      139     152       163     173
4.  Steel                              33        51       98     116      130      139
5.  Copper                              44       53       56      77        73      74
6.  Other primary metals                74       82      115     167      166      175
7. Machinery and equipment             296      544      727     966    1,155   1,343
8.  Fabrics and clothing              160       274      313     358      450     513
9.  All other goods                    471    1,019    1,107   1,855    2,161   2,504
10. Total goods                      1,330    2,237    2,853   3,860    4,581   5,304
11. Non-factor services                586    1,188    1,546   2,019    2,342   2,679
12. Total goods and NFS             1,916     3,425    It,399  5,879    6,923    7,983
1/   Estimates.
2/   Projections.
May 1, 1975



LiNEX I
Page 4
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(million US$')
Av.                               3/       V4        4/
1967-69      1972     1973     19714-    1975-    1976t-
1.  Imports (inc. NFS)                2,116     3,821     5,168    8,210    9,509    10,774
2.  EXports (incl. NFS)              1,916      3,425     4,409    5,879    6,923     7,983
3.  Blance of goods and NFS            -200      -396     -759    -2,331   -2,586   -2,791
4.  Interest                            -62      -138     -155      -261     -321      -406
a.  On public debt                 -56        -63      -76      -126     -150     -169
b.  On other debt                    -6       -75      -79      -138     -171     -237
5.  Workers' remittances                139       889     1,310    1,500    1,673     1,837
6.  Other factor services (net)         -17       -10       -19       -8      -14       -23
7.  Current transfers (net)              38        74        87      140      110       140
8.  Balance of current accounts        -101       419      464      -963   -1,108    -1,243
9.  Official capital grants               -         -         -        -        -         -
10, Public M & LT loans
a.  Disbursements                  185        538      400       450      500      600
b.  Repayments                     -172      -415     -293      -333     -369      -396
c.  Net Disbursements                13       123      107       117      131       204
11. Other M & LT (net) 1/
a.  Disbursements 17                234       300      620       949    1,506     1,728
b. Repayments                       -38       -92     -323      -494     -528      -689
c.  Net Disbursements 1/           196        208      297       455      977     1,039
12. IMF Drawings                         -7        22         -        -         -        -
13. Other short term                    -69      -350      -307       35         -        -
14. Use of reserves                     -33      -422      -561      356         -        -
Memo Items
15. Reserves (net), end period         -120       145       689      481      481       481
16. Debt service ratio: 2/
Public                          11.1       11.1      6.5      6.2       6.0      5.8
Total                           13.2       15.0     13.5     14.8      14.2     15.2
17. External debt outstanding
and disbursed, end period:
Public                         1,191      1,730    1,912    2,029     2,160    2,364
Total                          1,785      3,552    4,319     4,816    5,824    6,937
IBRD                             212        358      430      495       574      674
18. IBRD service as % of:
Public debt service              7.6      A14.6      9.0      9.6      10.9     12.7
Total debt service               6.4        814      3.2       4.0      4.6      1.8
1/ Includes private direct investment.
2/ On exports (incl. NFS) plus workers' remittances.
Estimates.
JT/ Projections.
May 1, 1975



ANNEX I
Pagr S
SELSCTED ECOIIOPIC DSVELOPMENT DATA
AV.          Actuals           Pmjections                Growth Rates                      As % o Grjy
197-69     1972       19    1974    1975   1976     1965-7C    1970-73   197376-      1972     1971,     1?76
National Accounts
(average 1967-69 prices; million U5S$)
GDP                                     10,542    13,491   14,375  15,450 16,704 17,957       4.7       6.1        7.6       100.0    101.0     101.2
Gains fror tens of trade                     1        -7     -18     -155    -174    -211                                      -       -1_. -1.2
Gross Domestic Incore                   10,543    13,484   14,357  15,295 16,530   17,746     4.7       6.1        7.3       100.0    100. 3    100.C
irpo-ts (incl. NFS)                      2,116     3,270    3,377   3,681   4,°00   45o00    11.5       6.4      1(.0         2h.3     2L.1     ?2.!.
FXnorvs (irport capacity, incl. NF5)     1,918     2,647    2,810   2,829   3,022   3,346     7.7       8.3        6.0        19.o     18.5      1-*P
Resource gap                               198       623      567     852     983   1,159                                      4.7      5.o
Cnns,irption                              7,628    9,861   10,257  10,953  11,688  12,591     6.2       5.1        7.1        73.1     71.6      71..0
Investment (incl. stocks)                 3,113    4,2146   4,667   5,194   5,825   6,309     4.0       7.4,      10.6        31.5     34.o      :-
Noti.onsol Savings                        3,013    4,364    4,887   5,279   5,758   6,161     3.0      11.4        8.0       32.4     13.5       3L.7
Domestic Savings                         2,915     3,623    4,100   4,342   4,842   5,155     1.1       8.9       7.9        26.9      29.b     29.0
Price Indices (1567-69 * 100)
Import price index                          98.3     122.4    147.0   173.0   203.6   239.7   2.8       9.7      17.7
Export nrice index                          98.3     121.6   146.1    163.3   182.6  204.0    2.8      15.0      11.8
Terms of trade index                       100.0      99.3    99.4     94.4    89.7   8595    0.0       0.2      -5.2
Public Finance
(current prices; million US$)
Current receipts                                   5,206    6,560   7,819   9,320  10,624      .       12.5      19.2
Current expenditures                               4,382    5,521   6,581   7,844   8,942       .      16.3       19.2
Budgetary savings                                    824    1,039   1,238   1,476   1,682       .      -1.7       19.2
Other public saving                         8               1       1        ,      1                   1         1
Public sector investment                    848      841    1,039   1,238   1,476   1,682               1.6      19.2
May 1, 1975



ANNEIX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUi' OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at May 31, 1975)
USS million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year           Borrower               Purpose          Bank   Undisbursed
Thirteen Loans fully disbursed                                 326.2
531     1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank       Railways          50.0      0.9
657     1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank       Telecommuni-
cations       40.0       1.6
678     1970   SFRY                           Roads             40.0      2.6
751     1971   SFRY                           Roads             35.0      7.2
752     1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran       Tourism           10.0      6.7
777     1971   SFRY                           Multi-purpose
Water         45.0      38.9
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" lHotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                      Tourism          20.0      16.8
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia      Power            75.0     44.7
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries    31.0      19.2
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline      59.4     51.0
947     1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry      14.5      9.1
965     1974   IMT                            Tractor Factory   18.5     15.5
966     1974   FOB                            Iron Foundry      15.0     12.6
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina Road Fund   Roads            30.0      18.7
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial.
Credit        28.0      27.6
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo       Industrial
Credit        22.0      21.9
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                      Railways         93.0     90.1
1060*   1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion 44.0     44.0
1066*   1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply
and Waste-
water            6.0      6.0
1129*   1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit        50.0      50.0
Total (less cancellation)                            1071.1    485.1
of which has been repaid                            119.4
Total now outstanding                                 951.7
Amount sold                              7.7
of which:  Amount repaid               6.1            1.6
Total now held by Bank                                950.1
Total undisbursed                                              485.1
*    Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTME.NTS (as .:t May 31, 1975)
Type of         Amount in US$ million
Year            Oblipgor                       Business        Loan   Equity    Total
1970      International Investment Corpora-    Investment        -       2.0     2.0
tion for Yugoslavia            Corporation
1970      Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.    Automotive       5.0      3.0    13.0
Industrv
1971      Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev      Automotive       7.5      2.3     9.8
Maribor (TAM>)/Klockner-        Industry
Humboldt Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972      FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler           Automotive      13.07     3.0    16.0
Benzz A.G.                     Industry
1972      Sava/Semperit                        Tires            4.0      1.5     5.5
1973      Belisce/Bell                         Pulp and Paper 13.4        -     13.4
1974      Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMiCO            Special Steel   10.0       -     10.0
1974      Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant    10.0       -     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                   62.9     16.8    79.7
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                                   9.3      2.4   11.7
Total Commitments held by IFC                             53.6     14.4    68.0
Total Undisbursed                                         19.6      6.3    25.9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -t
Loan 531 Belgrade-Bar Railway:    US$50.0 million Loan of March 22, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The completion of this project was originally scheduled for 1973
but geo-technical and other construction difficulties in mountainous terrain
are expected to delay operation of the line at least until 1976. The Closing
Date will be adjusted when the final completion date is known.
As a result of inflation and cost overruns, the total project cost
has increased from $225.5 million to $350.0 million. Supplementary finance
authorized under existing legislation was exhausted at the end of 1974.     How-
ever, a further US$59 million, approved in principle, is awaiting completion
of the legislative process and adequate interim finance is being provided by
local banks.
1/   'Thse notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of stmnrnths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
Delays in civil works have occurred which will delay completion of
the project until late 1975. With the exception of the earth satellite sta-
tion, only preliminary works have been completed. A cost overrun of US$5.1
million for orders already placed is expected due to currency revaluations.
Following a revision of the disbursement schedule, disbursements are now in
line with the revised projections.
Loan 678 Fourth Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of May 28, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
After an initial delay of about one year in starting work on the
Sarajevo-Zenica section because of difficulties in acquiring the right-of-way,
and delays due to inclement weather in 1974, work on this section has been
proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected to be completed in the fall of
1975. All other road sections are open for traffic. The Closing Date has
been postponed from June 30, 1974 to December 31, 1975.
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date: September 1, 1976.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the
conditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections
has progressed well. All road sections but one are open for traffic. The
remaining section is expected to be completed by the end of 1975. An 8 per-
cent increase in the appraisal cost estimate is expected. Disbursements
under the Loan are about one year behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date; June 30, 1976.
There have been delays in implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective, appointing consultants, providing the
necessary infrastructure and approvals by local authorities. As a result
disbursements are behind schedule. Bids received in July 1974 indicated that
the project, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds)
would cost approximately 100 percent above the originally estimated cost of
US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly due to rapid inflation in construc-
tion costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a
reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds. The total cost would be US$35.8
million, requiring additional financing of about US$10 million. Financing
for the revised project has been arranged and construction has begun.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. However,
construction is now well underway with the main dam scheduled for completion
in 1976 and the irrigation networks in 1977. Project costs are currently
estimated to be about 17 percent above the appraisal estimate. Additional
funds are being provided by the Province of Kosovo. Disbursements are
proceeding in line with the revised schedule. Arrangements for land consolid-
ation and agricultural extension services have been delayed but proposals are
now being studied.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971;
Closing Date: July 31, 1976.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. According-
ly disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have now been
largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule. Bids for
civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million).
This increase is largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The
Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a reduced complex con-
taining some 2,034 beds.  The total cost would be US$51.5 million requiring
additional financing of about US$1.6 million. Financing for the revised
project has been arranged and construction has begun.
Loan 836 Power Transmission:   US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1977.
Project execution began about one year behind schedule mainly
because of coordination difficulties and inherent delays in reaching agree-
ment among 12 borrowers. (This is the first attempt at countrywide coordina-
tion in the sector). All main contracts have been awarded and construction
is proceeding satisfactorily. Action on appointment of Management consultants
to help improve planning, operation and management of the interconnected
power system is lagging and reporting, especially on financial matters, has
been deficient; accordingly, financial performance of some of the borrowers
is in doubt. Also, in response to the principles of self-management, certain
of the borrowers have reorganized and further reorganizations may be expected,
complicating the task of assessing financial performance. Cost overruns of
about 50 percent are expected to be met from loans from the Federal Republic
of Germany and the borrowers' own resources.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31 million Loan of May 25
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Forty-two of the expected 43 social sector subloans, and 35 private
sector subloans (81 percent of the amount allocated) have been approved by the
lending institution. Private sector demand for subloans already exceeds fi-
nancing available under the project. Four social sector sub-projects have been
completed and twenty-nine are under construction. Progress is being made on
the three studies encompassed by the project.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 916 Naftagas Plpeline:   US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This loan became effective on March 22, 1974, after about four
months' delay. Bids received on pipes and equipment exceeded appraisal es-
timates and civil works costs have increased so that project costs are now
about 93 percent above the appraisal estimate.    Additional local finance for
civil works is being arranged but little additional foreign finance for pipes
and equipment is available. Discussions continue with the Borrower to trim
the project of its less essential items and to revise the implementation
schedule for the reduced project.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective oi-i May 28, 1974 after four months
delay, which was primarily due to the extra timne required for the ratification
of the Guarantee Agreement by the Federal Assembly.    Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry:   US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan became effective on May 28, 1974. Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule and disbursements are underway.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factor Expansion:    US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan became effective on June 11, 1974. Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule and disbursements are underway.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of I1y 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on December 10, 1974. Project
implementation is proceeding on schedule and disbursements have begun.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Closing date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on December 19, 1974 and five
subprojects including three below the free limit have been approved for dis-
bursements.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1013 Bosnia Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Closing date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on December 19, 1974 and six sub-
projects (including three below the free limit) have been approved for dis-
bursements.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93 million Loan of July 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on February 12, 1975 and disburse-
ments have begun. Only about half the investment expenditures planned for
1974 were incurred, due partly to delays in Loan effectiveness and delays
in deliveries of traction and rolling stock. However, physical execution is
ahead of expenditures due to good progress in track overhaul.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on June 13, 1975.



AN1NEX III
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:           The Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic
of Slovenia, Association of Enterprises for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Serbia, Self-Managing Republic
Interest Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic
of Montenegro.
Guarantor:           The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:       An appropriate share of the US$100,000 for training in
the preparation of highway feasibility studies (Part II
of the project) would be relent to the other road or-
ganizations that are not borrowers. The proposed bene-
ficiaries' shares would be determined by the expenditure
in this category incurred for their benefit or for insti-
tutions located in their territory.
Amount:              US$40.0 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 23 years, including a 3-1/2 year grace
period, with interest at 8-1/2 percent.
Relending Terms:     Same as for Bank loan.
Project              The project would comprise:
Description:
(a) the construction and supervision of the following
highway sections:
(i) in the Republic of Slovenia, a four-lane divided
highway between Dolgi-Most and Vrhnika (11.4 km);
(ii) in the Republic of Serbia, a four-lane divided
highway between Surcin (airport) and Belgrade
(8.0 km) and between Belgrade (Ring Road) and
Mali Pozarevac (21.5 km);
(iii) in the Republic of Montenegro, a two-lane high-
way between Titograd and Niksic (49.4 kim).
(b) the provision of 12 nianmonths of training in the
preparation of highway feasibility studies.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:                                        US$ '000
Local   Foreign    Total
Construction of Highways
Slovenia                                17,604     7,545   25,149
Serbia                                  20,864    9,818    30,682
Montenegro                              16,886    8,050   24,936
Subtotal                             55,354   25,413   80,767
Training                                      23       87       110
Contingency Allowances
Physical                                 5,536    2,541     8,077
Price                                    19,487   8,959    28,446
Subtotal                             25,023    11,500   36,523
Total Project Costs                       80,400   37,000   117,400
Financing Plan:                         US$ Million              Percent of
Equivalent                 Total
Road Organizations           77.4                      66
IBRD Loan                    40.0                      34
117.4                    100
Estimated Disbursements:
Amount (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year Annual            Cumulative
1976          3.8                3.8
1977          9.2               13.0
1978         17.0               30.0
1979         10.0               40.0
Procurement         Construction contracts on the basis of unit prices would
Arrangements:      be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
Prequalification procedures for all three subprojects
began in June 1975. Bids for the construction contracts
would be invited in August 1975 and contracts are ex-
pected to be awarded in December 1975. The contracts
would include price escalation clauses and are expected
to be won by Yugoslal" construction enterprises. Retro-
active financing for the preparation works for a tunnel
in Montenegro would be included.
Rate of Return:     The most probable economic rates of return for individual
highway sections would vary from 15 to 49 percent.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Technical Assis-     12 manmonths to train and assist the staff of the
tance (Consul-     Republic and Provincial Road Organizations and related
tants):            institutes in the application of guidelines for the
preparation of feasibility studies for major highways
and in overall highway planning.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:   December 31, 1978
Appraisal Report:    Report Number:  784-YU
Date: June 17, 1975
Highways and Aviation Division
Projects Department
EMENA Regional Office



l_ 6 '> it_@ wr 19 [r :s 2s 22' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH                               1FOs5
A  Li 5   T   R  I   A % ._\,
&  -"< ! nJ-  ) [  M93  X        1    ~~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~u  N  i A  R Y
UIOP.I IGH.AYSE                                                i        <               7   -
-- T 1lER CLASS I H4IGHWAYS                    -          D                 r                  )
¢.+v...... FI RST. Si(OND  HI... AD, .  F RI s H-IGHWAY PROJECT  i        t¢                   > ple < Y
= -  g  =   ez eln enaFIF rHHIGHWAY PRDUECT                 Ut><g                        
g f:}  rUl4G4q1  >   _ _  ~~~~SM)r. HIGHWAY PPOUECT                                 r                  v.   . 
\  -R-2           ~~~~~~~~~ ~PROPOSED SEVEPlTH HIGHWAY PRO.ECT  J                 /  <   s 
~~~~ EOM^NI} ~~~~~~HICHW.Y BRIOGE AT KOSOVCl POLJE ( 4th PROJECT )  T%)<               s. 
Edsme< ~    ~~~~~~ C3)   AN  OCIVO OLsE -PRISTINA SECTION 1 5hPROJECT)   ]\ ]        ; o    9     J       1 
YU GOISLAV/IA  t.                                                                                                     4 tt 
1    9  s       |  _ ~~~~~~~~RAI LWAYS                                       z         e                          j
/ _\ \ _ ~-       --INTIERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES : - /_L 
.+ ( X_) ' e " A   r'/Wnaliznqrppl                 g                  2@       G R E E C E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  EC 



