CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1143 YU
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovepia)
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
.UTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE
(Self-managing Republic Interest Community for
Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro)
DATED JULY 18, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1143 YU
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia)
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE
(Self-managing Republic Interest Community for
Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro)
DATED JULY 18, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, party of the first part (such
party of the first part hereinafter called the Bank) and REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST
ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENiJE, (Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist
Republic of Slovenia) (hereinafter sometimes called the Slovenian Borrower),
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE (Association of Enterprises
for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Serbia) (hereinafter sometimes called the
Serbian Borrower), REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA
ZA PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE (Self-managing Republic Interest Community for
Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro) (hereinafter sometimes called the
Montenegrin Borrower), parties of the second part (any such parties of the second
part hereinafter sometimes individually called a Borrower and all such parties of
the second part hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Borrowers).
(A)   The Borrowers have agreed (i) to carry out Part I of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and (ii) together with the Subsidiary
Borrowers (as defined in Section 1.02(d) hereinafter) to carry out, through the
CRO (as defined in Section 1,02(g) hereinafter), Part II of the Project;
(Bl) The Sociali-t Republic of Slovenia (hereinafter called Slovenia), the
Socialist Republic of Serbia (hereinafter called Serbia) and the Socialist Republic
of Montenegro (hereinafter called Montenegro) each have adopted or will adopt
necessary regulations authorizing the construction of the respective road sections
included under Part I of the Project, which regulations provide or will provide
inter alia financial resources for tne complete execution of Part I of the Project
to be made available respectively by: (i) Slovenia to the Slovenian Borrower, for
purposes of Part I.A of the Project; (ii) Serbia to the Serbian Borrower, for purposes
of Part I.B of the Project; and (iii) 1.ontenegro to the Montenegrin Borrower,
for purposes of Part I.C of the Project;
(C)   Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro have each agreed to make available
or cause to be made available to its respective Borrower, on appropriate terms,
any additional funds required for the carrying out of its Individual Part of the
Project (as defined in Section 1.02(a) hereinafter) over and above the funds to
be made available in accordance with the regulations referred to in Recital B and
the Loan provided hereunder;
(D)   The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and the Borrowers have requested the Bank to assist each one of the


﻿4
Borrowers in the financing of its Individual Part of the Project and in the financing
of Part II of the Project, by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(E)   The Borrowers have agreed to relend a portion of the amount of the
Loan allocated to the carrying out of Part II of the Project to certain other road
organizations of the Republics and Provinces, under a Relending Agreement to
be entered into by the Borrowers and such other road organizations (said other
road organizations are hereinafter called the Subsidiary Borrowers), and have agreed
to designate the CRO to be responsible, on behalf of the Borrowers and the
Subsidiary Borrowers, for the carrying out of Part II of the Project;
(F) The Borrowers have agreed to designate the CRO as the representative
of each of the Borrowers for certain other purposes under this Agreement, as is
hereinafter set forth;
(G)   The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into this
Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrowers in respect of such Loan;
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, has agreed
to make a loan to the Borrowers for such purposes in the amount and on the
terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿5
(a)   "Individual Part of the Project", used with respect to any of the
Borrowers, means (i) that portion of Part I of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement which is identified with the Republic in which such Borrower
is established, plus (ii) Part II of the Project to the extent such Part II concerns
such Borrower or its staff, or any related institution established in the Socialist
Republic in which such Borrower is established;
(b)   "Individual Portion of the Loan", used with respect to any of the
Borrowers, means such portion of the Loan as shall have been allocated or deemed
allocated to such Borrower for the purpose of assisting in the financing of such
Borrower's Individual Part of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement; provided that for the purposes of this paragraph (b), the amount
of the Loan allocated for Technical Assistance under Category II of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Loan set forth under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, shall (in the absence of agreement to the contrary between the
Borrowers and the CRO) be deemed allocated to the several Borrowers as follows:
(i) in respect of expenditures made or to be made by or for the account of a
particular Borrower, to such Borrower, and (ii) in respect of expenditures which
cannot at any particular time be so identified, in the proportions that the amount
specifically allocated to each Borrower under Categories I.A, I.B and I.C of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Loan bears to the total amount of the allocation
under Category I, or as the Borrowers and the CRO shall otherwise mutually agree.
(c)   the term "Republic" means any of the Socialist Republics of (i) Bosnia
and Herzegovina, (ii) Croatia, (iii) Macedonia, (iv) Montenegro, (v) Serbia and (vi)
Slovenia;
(d)   the term   "Proviice" means either of the Socialist Autonomous
Provinces of (i) Kosovo and (ii) Vojvodina;
(e)   the term  "Subsidiary Borrower" means   any of:
(i)        Republicki Fond za Puteve S.R. Bosne i Hercegovine, Sarajevo
(Republic Road Fund of Bosnia and Herzegovina);
(ii)       Republicki Fond za Ceste S.R. Hrvatske, Zagreb (Republic Road
Fund of Croatia);
(iii)      Republicki Fond za Patista S.R. Makedonije, Skopie (Republic
Road Fund of Macedonia);
(iv)       Savjet za Puteve ASP Volvodine, Novi Sad (Provincial Road
Council - Vojvodina); and


﻿6
(v)        Preduzece za Puteve ASP Kosovo, Pristina (Provincial Road
Enterprise - Kosovo);
(f)   the term  "Relending Agreement" means the Relending Agreement
between the Borrowers and the Subsidiary Borrowers to be entered into in
accordance with Article IV of this Agreement;
(g)   the term  "CRO" means the Saviet Republickih i Pokrajinskih
Organizacija za Puteve (Council of Republic and Provincial Road Organizations),
a voluntary association established by agreement of the Road Funds and Road
Councils of the respective Republics and Provinces, dated June 17, 1971, including
any successor thereto and chaired by one of the member organizations appointed
for one or more years pursuant to Article 4 of said agreement;
(h)   the term "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 281 of the Constitution of the Guarantor;
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 2(a)
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(j)   "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Highway Feasibility Studies"
prepared by the CRO's consultants, in 1974;
(k)   "Borrowers' Statutes" means (i) the Temporary Statute of the
Slovenian Borrower, dated November 6, 1972, as amended to the date of this
Agreement; (ii) the Statutes of the Serbian Borrower, dated July 13, 1973, as
amended to the date of this Agreement; and (iii) the Statutes of the Montenegrin
Borrower, dated January 23, 1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(1)   "CRO's Statutes" means the agreement referred to in paragraph (g)
above.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrowers, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as


﻿7
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for civil
works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
let in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrowers and
the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrowers shall pay interest at the rate of eight and
one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrowers shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) Of the amounts in the currencies specified in Article IV
of the General Conditions to be paid to the Bank by the Borrowers on each payment
date pursuant to the foregoing Sections 2.05 through 2.08 of this Agreement, each
of the Borrowers shall only be liable for, and shall pay a share equivalent to:
(i)        the commitment charge accrued on the principal amount of its
Individual Portion of the Loan not withdrawn or cancelled and
the  additional  commitment   charge  accrued  on  special
commitments entered into by the Bank at the request of such
Borrower;
(ii)       the interest accrued on the principal amount of its Individual
Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding; and


﻿8
(iii)      a portion of the amount of each maturity of the Loan
proportionate to the principal amount of its Individual Portion
of the Loan, provided that such portion shall not have been
repaid by such Borrower in advance of maturity as provided
in paragraph (b) below.
(b)   Each of the Borrowers shall have the right, upon payment of all accrued
interest and payment of the premium specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
and upon not less than 45 days' notice to the Bank, to repay in advance of maturity:
(i)        all of the principal amount of its Individual Portion of the Loan
at the time withdrawn and outstanding; or
(ii)       all of the principal amount of the Loan to be repaid by such
Borrower on one or more maturity dates in accordance with
paragraph (a) above, provided that on the date of such
prepayment there shall not be outstanding any portion of the
Loan to be repaid by such Borrower and maturing after such
maturity dates.
(c)   It is the policy of the Bank to encourage the repayment prior to
maturity of portions of its Loans retained by the Bank in its own account.
Accordingly the Bank will sympathetically consider, in the light of all circumstances
then existing, any request by a Borrower that the Bank waive the payment of
any premium payable under paragraph (b) of this Section on prepayment of any
portion of the Loan which the Bank has not sold or agreed to sell.
(d)  Each of the Borrowers may by notice to the Bank cancel any amount
of its Individual Portion of the Loan which such Borrower shall not have withdrawn
prior to the giving of such notice, except that none of the Borrowers may so
cancel any amount of its Individual Portion of the Loan in respect of which the
Bank shall have entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. Each of the Borrowers shall designate or cause the CRO to
be designated as its representative for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions set forth or referred to in Sections
2.02, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 2.08 and 2.09 of this Agreement, and Articles 111, IV and
V and Section 6.05 of the General Conditions, and for such purpose, the CRO
and the Borrowers shall take such actions as are set forth in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.


﻿9
Section 2.11. All obligations of the Borrowers under the Loan Agreement,
unless such obligations shall have been expressly undertaken by each of the
Borrowers separately, shall be joint and several and the obligation of any of them
to comply with any provision of the Loan Agreement is not subject to any prior
notice to, demand upon or action against any other of them. No extension of
time or forbearance given to any of the Borrowers in respect of the performance
of any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, and no failure of the Bank
to give any notice or to make any demand or protest whatsoever to any of the
Borrowers, or strictly to assert any right or pursue any remedy against any of
them in respect of the Loan Agreement, and no failure by any of the Borrowers
to comply with any requirement of any law, regulation or order, shall in any way
affect or impair any obligation of the other Borrowers under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Each of the Borrowers shall carry out its Individual Part of
the Project (i) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and (ii) in cooperation with the
other Borrowers and the CRO (as such cooperation is described in more detail
in Schedule 8 to this Agreement) in a practical manner designed to ensure the
most efficient execution of the Project as a whole, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Each of the Borrowers shall:
(a)   construct the roads included in its Individual Part of the Project in
accordance with such design standards as are set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed upon from time to time between such Borrowers
and the Bank;
(b)   furnish to the Bank (through the CRO), for its approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction schedules for its Individual Part of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request; and
(c)   acquire, promptly as needed, all land required for the carrying out
of its Individual Part of the Project and furnish to the Bank (through the CRO),


﻿10
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
is available for the purpose of carrying out its Individual Part of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the Borrowers
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of its Individual
Portion of the Loan to be used exclusively for its Individual Part of the Project
or (to the extent of the allocation therefor) for Part II of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrowers shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the operation thereof, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) (acting through CRO)
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the gcods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   The. Borrowers shall cause the CRO to maintain records adequate for
the purposes of Sections 2.10 and 3.04(a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Each of the Borrowers shall take or cause to be taken all
such actions as are necessary in order to ensure that if any tolls are imposed on
the use of any highways included under its Individual Part of the Project, such
tolls will be set at such rates as will ensure an economic use of such highway
and alternative routes or means of transportation.
ARTICLE IV
Relending Agreement
Section 4.01. For the purposes of carrying out Part II of the Project, the
Borrowers shall enter into a Relending Agreement with the Subsidiary Borrowers
and the CRO providing inter alia for the relending to the Subsidiary Borrowers
of such amounts as shall be withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
expenditures for Part II of the Project incurred for the account of the Subsidiary
Borrowers or for the benefit of institutions located in the Republics and Provinces
in which the Subsidiary Borrowers are established.
Section 4.02 (a) The Relending Agreement shall include adequate provisions
which will enable the Borrowers to carry out their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement in relation to Part II of the Project and shall include, without


﻿11
limitation, the obligation on the part of the Borrowers and the Subsidiary
Borrowers:
(i)         to designate the CRO to be responsible, on behalf of the
Borrowers and the Subsidiary Borrowers, for the carrying out
of Part II of the Project;
(ii)       to cause the CRO to carry out Part II of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
administrative and financial practices, and to make available to
the CRO for such purpose, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;
(iii)       to furnish and cause the CRO to furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, promptly their proposals for any material modification
of or addition to the work schedules for Part II of the Project,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(iv)        to maintain and cause the CRO to maintain records adequate
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for Part II of the Project, to disclose the use thereof
in such Part of the Project, and to record the progress of such
Part of the Project (including the cost thereof) and the receipts
and expenditures and the financial condition of the Borrowers
and the Subsidiary Borrowers;
(v)         to enable the Bank's representatives to inspect Part II of the
Project, the operation thereof, the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Part of the Project
and any relevant records and documents, and to furnish and
cause the CRO to furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning such Part of the
Project and the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to such Part of the Project, the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Part of the
Project and the operations and financial condition of the CRO
and the performance by the Borrowers and the Subsidiary
Borrowers of their obligations under the Relending Agreement;
and
(vi)        to cooperate and cause the CRO to cooperate fully with the
Bank to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be


﻿12
accomplished, and from time to time exchange views with the
Bank, through their respective representatives, with regard to
matters relating to Part II of the Project and the performance
by the Borrowers and the Subsidiary Borrowers of their
respective obligations under the Relending Agreement;
Section 4.03. The Borrowers shall exercise their rights under the Relending
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrowers and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrowers shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Relending Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrowers
Section 5.01. Each of the Borrowers shall exercise its powers and functions
with respect to all public roads in its respective Republic (except roads falling
within the jurisidiction of municipalities) so as to ensure (i) that such roads will
be adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices, and that the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefor will be provided, promptly as needed; (ii) that the systematic
collection and recording of such technical, economic and financial data will be
continued as shall be reasonable for the proper planning or maintenance,
improvements and extensions of such roads; and (iii) that the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles using such roads shall not exceed such limits as are appropriate
to the design standards for such roads.
Section 5.02. Each of the Borrowers shall at all times carry out its operations,
manage its affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with sound
engineering, business, financial and administrative principles and practices, and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 5.03. Each of the Borrowers shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practices.
Section 5.04. Each of the Borrowers shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and properties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and administrative practices.
Section 5.05. Each of the Borrowers shall at all times maintain the right
to carry on its operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and


﻿13
renew all rights and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, none of the Borrowers
shall sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its rights, property
or assets except in the ordinary course of business.
ARTICLE VI
Financial Covenan ts
Section 6.01. Each of the Borrowers shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 6.02. Each of the Borrowers shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another
competent and experienced independent auditing organization; (ii) furnish to the
Bank through the CRO as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank through the CRO such other information
concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 6.03. (a) Each of the Borrowers represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as
otherwise currently reported to the Bank or stated in writing.
(b)   Each of the Borrowers undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if such Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets
as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of such Borrower
as security for any debt, such Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created


﻿14
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment
of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7,01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   Slovenia, Serbia, or Montenegro shall have failed to make available
to its respective Borrower, as and when needed, the financial resources provided
under the respective regulations referred to in Recital B of this Agreement;
(b)   Slovenia, Serbia, or Montenegro shall have failed to carry out any of
its undertakings or agreements referred to in Recital C of this Agreement;
(c)   any provision (i) of any of the regulations referred to in Recital B
of this Agreement, or (ii) of any of the agreements referred to in Recital C of
this Agreement, or (iii) of such Articles of the Statutes of any of the Borrowers
as affect in any way whatever such Borrower's ability to carry out its Individual
Part of the Project or such Borrower's existence as an independent enterprise, or
(iv) of such Articles of CRO's Statutes as affect in any way whatever CRO's ability
to carry out any of its obligations in the Loan Agreement contained, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated without the prior approval of
the Bank,
(d)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to any of the Borrowers
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms,
have become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable; and
(e)   a default shall occur on the part of any Borrower or any Subsidiary
Borrower or on the part of the CRO in the performance of any such obligations
under the Relending Agreement as are referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿15
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrowers; and
(b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro have each adopted regulations in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as referred to in Recital B of this Agreement,
and such regulations are in full force and effect:
(b)   Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro have each given guarantees, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of the provision of all necessary
funds in respect of its respective Borrower's Individual Part of the Project, including
cost-overruns, as referred to in Recital C of this Agreement, and such guarantees
are in full force and effect;
(c)   the execution and delivery of the Relending Agreement on behalf of
the Borrowers, the CRO and the Subsidiary Borrowers, in form and substance
satisfactory to the bank, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action, and the Relending Agreement is in full force
and effect; and
(d)   all necessary consents and approvals have been given for the CRO to
undertake the obligations referred to herein.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the regulations referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 8.01 of
this Agreement, have been duly adopted and are in full force and effect;


﻿16
(b)   that the guarantees referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 8.01 of
this Agreement have been duly and validly given and are in full force and effect;
(c)   that the Relending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrowers, the CRO and the
Subsidiary Borrowers, and is legally binding upon the Borrowers, the CRO and
the Subsidiary Borrowers in accordance with its terms; and
(d)   that the consents and approvals referred to in paragraph (d) of Section
8.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly given and are in full force
and effect.
Section 8.03. The date November 17, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON, D.C.
For the Borrowers:
Savjet Republickih i Pokrajinskih
Organi;acija za Puteve
Administratija
Titova 64
61000 Ljubljana
Yugoslavia


﻿17
IN  WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through        their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIE
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
I
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA
ZA PUTEVE S.R. CRNE GORE
By /s / Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(I)  Civil Works
(A)   for Part L.A of         10,955,000          30%
the Project
(B)  for Part I.B of          14,256,000          32%
the Project
(C)   for Part I.C of         14,689,000         41%
the Project
(11)  Technical                       100,000          100% of foreign
Assistance                                       expenditures
TOTAL        40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of a country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category I.C on account of
expenditures incurred after September 15, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $140,000.


﻿19
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Sub-category under
Category I will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
5.   If the estimate of disbursements under Category II shall change, the amount
of the Loan then allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category may
be reallocated, at the request of the Borrowers, to any Sub-category under Category
I, subject to the approval of the Bank.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I.    Highway Construction
The construction in the Republics of Slovenia, 5erbia and Montenegro,
of the following highway sections, each portion to be carried out by the
respective Borrower:
(A)  Slovenia Portion: a four-lane divided highway between Dolgi-Most and
Vrhnika (about 11.4 km);
(B)  Serbia Portion: a four-lane divided highway (i) between Surcin
(Belgrade Airport) and Belgrade (about 8.0 km); and (ii) between
Belgrade (Ring Road) and Mali Pozarevac (about 21.5 km); and
(C)  Montenegro Portion: a two-lane highway between Titograd and Niksic
(about 49.4 km).
Part II.   Training
The provision of about 12 man-months of technical assistance, to be
coordinated and administered by the CRO, mainly for training in
transportation economics, to consolidate the results achieved so far in the
preparation of highway projects in accordance with the Guidelines, and to
assist the Borrowers and the Subsidiary Borrowers and related institutions
in the application of the Guidelines, in accordance with a program to be
agreed between the Bank, the Borrowers and the CRO.
Part I of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.
Part II of the Project is expected to be completed by December 3 1, 1976.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1979                                         420,000
October 15, 1979                                       435,000
April 15, 1980                                         455,000
October 15, 1980                                       475,000
April 15, 1981                                         495,000
October 15, 1981                                       515,000
April 15, 1982                                         535,000
October 15, 1982                                       560,000
April 15, 1983                                         585,000
October 15, 1983                                       610,000
April 15, 1984                                         635,000
October 15, 1984                                       660,000
April 15, 1985                                         690,000
October 15, 1985                                       720,000
April 15, 1986                                         750,000
October 15, 1986                                       780,000
-       April 15, 1987                                         815,000
October 15, 1987                                       850,000
April 15, 1988                                         885,000
October 15, 1988                                       920,000
April 15, 1989                                         960,000
October 15, 1989                                      1,000,000
April 15, 1990                                        1,045,000
October 15, 1990                                      1,090,000
April 15, 1991                                        1,135,000
October 15, 1991                                      1,185,000
April 15, 1992                                        1,235,000
October 15, 1992                                      1,285,000
April 15, 1993                                        1,340,000
October 15, 1993                                      1,395,000
April 15, 1994                                        1,455,000
October 15, 1994                                      1,520,000
April 15, 1995                                        1,580,000
October 15, 1995                                      1,650,000
April 15, 1996                                        1,720,000
October 15, 1996                                      1,795,000
April 15, 1997                                        1,870,000
October 15, 1997                                      1,950,000
April 15, 1998                                        2,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                               1%
before maturity
More than three years but                           2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                            4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      5-1/2%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         7-1/4%
not more than nineteen
years before maturity
More than nineteen years but                            8%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years                          8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   All bidders for highway construction works included under the Project
shall be prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)   Bid invitations for all contracts shall be advertised also in well-known
technical journals or trade publications outside Yugoslavia.
(c)   Foreign contractors shall not be required to register in Yugoslavia as
a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event that registration shall be necessary
after a foreign contractor has been notified that he will be awarded a contract,
the Borrowers shall facilitate the registration.
(d)   A time period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for submission
of bids.
(e)   Bid bonds or guarantees in the amount of at least 3% of the bid value
shall be required with the submission of bids.
(f)   Each contract shall be on a unit-price basis and shall include:
(i)         a price escalation clause as described in paragraph 4.4 of the
Guidelines;
(ii)        a provision for retention money in the amount of at least 5%
of the contractor's monthly statements;
(iii)       an obligation to provide a performance bond in the amount of
100% of the contract value or alternatively, at the contractor's
option, a bank guarantee in the amount of at least 10% of the
contract value; and
(iv)        a provision allowing non-Yugoslav contractors to convert into
foreign exchange a reasonable portion of the contract payments.


﻿24
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrowers through the CRO shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrowers through the CRO to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrowers shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request. A time period of at least 30 days shall be allowed for
submission of prequalification documents.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for highway contruction works:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrowers through the CRO shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, each Borrower shall,
through the CRO, before a final decision on any award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the
reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrowers and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of any contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of each contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿25
3.    In taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
set forth or referred to in the Guidelines or in this Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement the Borrowers shall proceed in cooperation with each other and with
the CRO as set forth in Schedule 8 to the Loan Agreement.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
1.   Paragraph 4 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"4.  The term 'Loan' means the loan provided for in the Loan
Agreement and the term 'Individual Portion of the Loan' means the portion
of the Loan allocated to a particular Borrower in accordance with the Loan
Agreement."
2.    Paragraph 6 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"6.  The term 'Borrower' means all the parties to the Loan Agreement
to which the Loan is made, except that in Section 5.02, Section 5.03, Section
5.07, paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), (h) and (i) of Section 6.02, paragraphs
(c), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 7.01 and Section 10.02, such term means
one or more such parties."
3.    Paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.05 are' deleted.
4.    Section 5.01 is deleted.
5.    Section 6.01 is deleted.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 6
Highway Design Standards
The Borrowers shall construct the highways included in the Project in
accordance with the design standards set out below.
Belgrade-
DolgiMfost-  Surcin-      Mali       Titograd-   Danilovgrad-  Bogetic-
Unit     Vrhnika    Belgrade   Pozarevac   Danilovgrad    Bogetic      Niksic
Type of Terrain              Flat        Flat      Flat/hilly     Flat    Mountainous   Mountainous
Design Speed       km/h      120         100          100         100          80            80
Max. Gradient      %           0.9          2.0         6.0         3.8          4.0          5.0
Road Width         m       2 x 7.50     2 x 7.50    2 x 7.50         7.00        7.00         7.00
Width of Emer-
gency Lane      m           2.50         2.50        2.50        -            -            -
Width of
Shoulders      m            1.50         1.00        1.00        1.85         1.85         1.85
Minimum Hor.
Curves         m        2,000         700         700        2,000         250          400
Minimum Vert.
Curves:
- Summits      m       50,000       18,000      18,000      15,000       12,000       33,000
- Sags         m       40,000       12,000      12,000      16,000       10,000       20,000
Max. Single
Axle Road      ton         10           10          10          10           10           10
Type of Wearing
Surface         --    ------------------------ asphaltic concrete ---


﻿28
SCHEDULE 7
Actions to be taken by each of the Borrowers and by the CRO in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement:
1.   (a)   Upon any Borrower's respective written request the CRO shall
promptly take the following action with respect to such Borrower's Individual
Portion of the Loan:
(i)        make applications for withdrawal from the Loan Account and
pay to such Borrower, or on its order, the amounts so
withdrawn;
(ii)       request the Bank to enter into any special commitments in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions;
(iii)      give the Bank notice of any repayment in advance of maturity
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section
2.09 of the Loan Agreement;
(iv)       request the Bank to purchase any currency needed by such
Borrower for payment of principal, interest and other charges,
as provided by Section 4.05 of the General Conditions;
(v)        give the Bank any notice of cancellation in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 2.09 of the Loan
Agreement; and
(vi)       in general, take any action required or permitted to be taken
by such Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the
General Conditions and the Loan Agreement referred to in
Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement.
(b)  Any request submitted to the CRO in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (a) above shall be in such form, and include such supporting
documentation as the CRO shall determine in accordance with the provisions of
the Loan Agreement.
2.   All payments to be made to the Bank by any of the Borrowers shall be
made through the CRO, provided that for such purpose:


﻿29
(a)  the CRO shall open an account with a Yugoslav bank to be used
exclusively for making such payments (hereinafter called the Special Account), the
necessary details about such Special Account to be communicated to all Borrowers;
(b)  each of the Borrowers shall make any such payment into the Special
Account in such currency or currencies, and not later than five working days before
such date, as such payments have to be made to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement;
(c)   not later than 15 working days before any payment is to be made
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) above,
the CRO shall advise the respective Borrowers of the currency or currencies of
payment and of the payment due date; and
(d)  using the funds paid by such Borrower into the Special Account, the
CRO shall promptly make to the Bank the payments to be made by such Borrower.
3.   The CRO shall (i) assign qualified and experienced staff in sufficient numbers
for the carrying out of the actions to be carried out by it on behalf of the Borrowers
in accordance with this Schedule 7, (ii) periodically determine its costs and
expenditures incurred in carrying out such actions, and (iii) charge each of the
Borrowers with such costs and expenditures in the same approximate proportion
as its Individual Portion of the Loan bears to the total amount of the Loan. Each
of the Borrowers shall promptly reimburse the CRO for its share of such costs
and expenditures as so determined by the CRO.


﻿30
SCHEDULE 8
Cooperation between the Borrowers and the CRO in carrying out the Project
(see Section 3.01 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to, the Loan Agreement):
1.   The CRO shall establish and maintain a unit (hereinafter called the Unit)
at CRO's headquarters for the coordination of construction, subject to the approval
of the Borrowers. The Unit shall be supported by such full-time staff provided
by the CRO as the Borrowers shall deem necessary. The CRO shall periodically
determine its costs and expenditures incurred in operating the Unit and shall charge
each of the Borrowers with such costs and expenditures in the same approximate
proportion as its Individual Portion of the Loan bears to the total amount of
the Loan. Each of the Borrowers shall promptly reimburse the CRO for its share
of such costs and expenditures as so determined by the CRO.
2.    The Unit shall have the functions set forth below as well as any other
functions the Borrowers may assign to it, namely, to take any action required
or permitted to be taken by the Borrowers in accordance with the provisions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, and in particular and
without limitation, to evaluate bids, to review the Borrowers' proposals about
making awards and to forward such proposals to the Bank, all as required by the
provisions set forth in paragraphs I and 2 of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.


