Documnt of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-24 19-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 29, 1978
This doment has a restricted distibuton and may be imd by recipients only In te performace of
their of1ial dutie. Its conteentsmy not otherwise he dislsd withwot World Bank athorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.0                    TSh 8.00
TSh 1.0             =    US$0.125
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/
Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to
TSh 8.00 which is close to the 1978 average exchange
rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCM           -   Chama Cha Mapinduzi
DSA           -   Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy
EAC           -   East African Community
EAMI          -   East African Management Institute
ESR           -   Education for Self-Reliance
ITC           -   Instructor Training Center
MANTEP        -   Management Training for Educational Personnel
MATIs         -   Ministry of Agriculture's Training Institutes
MOE           -   Ministry of National Education
MOL           -   Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
NVTP          -   National Vocational Training Program
Project Unit  -   Project Planning Section
RTCs          -   Rural Training Centers
TANU          -   Tanganyika African National Union
UPE           -   Universal Primary Education
VMTs          -   Village Management Technicians
VTCs          -   Vocational Training Centers
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           United Republic of Tanzania.
Amount:             US$12.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard.
Project             The project would assist in the development of middle
Description:       level management and skill training for the modern
sector. It would provide for: (i) strengthening of
vocational and technical education; (ii) improved accounting
training; (iii) aprogram for management training for
educational personnel; (iv) greater access of women to
technical education; (v) a study aimed at increasing the
effectiveness of the Institute of Education; and (vi) gn
improved monitoring and evaluation system. The project
faces no special risks. However, close supervision of
interministerial coordination at the critical stages of
design, tendering and procurement will be necessary to
assure successful technical execution.
Estimated Cost:                                                 US$ million
Local   Foreign  Total
Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment, Vehicles and
Technical Assistance
(a) Vocational Training Centers   1.0        1.0       2.0
(b) Instructor Training Center    1.0        1.1       2.1
(c) Technical Secondary Schools   1.0        0.9       1.9
(d) School of Accountancy           1.9      1.8       3.7
(e) Management Training for
Educational Personnel          0.1       0.5       0.6
Project Administration and
Monitoring and Studies                0.2      0.4       0.6
Sub-total                        5.2       5.7      10.9
Contingencies                         2.5      2.6       5.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    7.7      8.3      16.0
of which taxes and duties         1.6       -        1.6
PROJECT COST NET OF TAXES
AND DUTIES                           6.1      8.3      14.4
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofhfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                             US$ million
Local   Foreign  Total   %
IDA                              3.7       8.3      12.0   83
Government                       2.4        -        2.4   17
PROJECT COST NET OF TAXES
AND DUTIES                     6.1       8.3      14.4  100
Disbursements:                                             US$ Million
IDA FY               1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                0.1    1.1    4.0    4.4    2.0    0.4
Cumulative            0.1    1.2    5.2    9.6   11.6   12.0
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2141-TA dated November 23, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$12.0 million equivalent on
standard terms to help finance a Sixth Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the twenty-five least developed countries in
the world with a per capita income in 1977 of US$200. The economy is still
heavily dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agri-
culture and approximately 40% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are
derived from agricultural production. Average rural incomes are much below
average urban incomes and there is considerable regional variation in rural
incomes owing largely to differences in climate and land fertility. Overall
population density is low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated.
Population growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum with both fertility and
mortality at relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, and wholesale trade are under state
control. Controls are used extensively to direct economic activity, including
import licencing, foreign exchange control, price control, the reservation of
some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and detailed Government
investment planning. The second major feature of Tanzania's development
strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development and social programs to
benefit the poor. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education by 1977. The Government policy of
settling rural population into villages is an important element in its attempt
to facilitate the provision of economic and social services in rural areas.
Long-Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1967-77 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.6%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President"s Report
on the Tourism Rehabilitation Project, dated November 29, 1978.



- 2 -
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, it has since
resumed with the improved weather in 1976 and 1977.
6.        The Government has an impressive record of domestic resource
mobilization. Between 1966-67 and 1976-77 the share of recurrent revenue
rose from 14.3% to 20.2% of GDP. This has been achieved through a combina-
tion of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately pro-
gressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings fluc-
tuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960's through 1973, fell to
half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976-77. These are extremely high levels of savings for a country
at Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. While between 1969 and
1975 the average urban-rural gap remained approximately constant, it is likely
that the gap has now been slightly reduced due to continued recovery of agri-
cultural production and higher producer prices. Regional income differentials
in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the urban sector there
has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential between the
highest-paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50 to 1 in
1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, the overall formal urban sector earnings
structure has remained relatively stable while a large informal sector has
emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed, underemployed and other work-
ers with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The
policies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975
should have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribu-
tion and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in
universal primary education (para 4 above) are resulting in a significant
redirection in public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite satisfactory performance on growth, domestic resource
mobilization, and income distribution there are other areas in which per-
formance has been less than satisfactory. The most problematic long-term
trend is the slow growth of agricultural production. From 1967-77 agriculture
grew at an annual rate of 2.7%, the same as the rate of growth of population.
In the past three years agricultural growth has been higher, but this pri-
marily represents recovery to the long-term trend from the bad years in
1973-74. In addition the recovery has been limited to subsistence agricul-
ture; monetary agricultural production was only 2.2% higher in 1977 than in
1972.
9.        Slow agricultural growth has been largely responsible for a
second problem, the disappointingly slow growth of export volume: while the
total volume of exports of goods and services was 7.7% higher in 1976 than
in 1966, the volume of exports of goods alone was actually lower in 1976 than
a decade earlier. From 1966-71, the volume of exports of goods and services
grew at 7.7% per year, but this was followed by a decline after 1971, a



-3-
sharp drop in 1974, and only a partial recovery by 1976. Increasied levels of
foreign assistance and high coffee prices have mitigated the worst effects of
the decline in export volume, but Government authorities have been forced
to impose stricter import controls which have had particularly adverse
effects on industrial production in recent years.
Recent Economic Performance
10.       The economy continued its recovery in 1977.  Total GDP increased
by 5.9% while agricultural production increased by 5.6%. There was no sig-
nificant change in export volume but the boom in coffee prices helped raise
mainland commodity export receipts from TSh 3,828 million to TSh 4,585 mil-
lion. External reserves were US$280 million at the end of 1977 but had
fallen to US$200 million by May 1978 largely as a result of falling coffee
prices. This is equivalent to three months imports at the 1977 level.
11.       Recovery has been aided by good economic management.  The Govern-
ment has continued to adhere to the principal elements of the policy package
introduced at the time of appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan
(No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. These include reallocation of investment in
favor of directly productive sectors, higher agricultural producer prices,
constraints on wages and salaries, and price and tax increases to restrain
private consumption. Since mid-1976 the Government has also succeeded
in bringing Government spending under control and has begun to re-Lax import
controls. Because excessive Government spending and borrowing from the
banking system was threatening to undermine financial stability and the
entire program of recovery in early 1976, a program of budgetary control was
developed by the Government and supported by IMF assistance and a Program
Credit (No. 688-TA) in early 1977. Through the imposition of new budgetary
control measures and the reimposition of a progressive tax on coffee exports,
the Government was able in 1977-78 to hold bank borrowing to nearly zero. The
Program Credit was also designed to support selected relaxation of import
controls in order to provide needed imports of spare parts and raw materials
for increased capacity utilization. After some delays, the availability of
essential maintenance imports has increased.
12.       In addition, the Government has experimented in recent mionths
with measures to increase labor productivity. These have included layoffs
of some redundant workers and consultancy studies of the operational prob-
lems of individual firms. Of potentially greater importance,in the Budget
Speech in June 1978 the Finance Minister called for the immediate adoption
of a payment-by-result wage system to stimulate productivity.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's refusal to use higher cost
commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service ratio
has remained low. Including a notional 40% share of the debt of the East
African Community Corporations, it was less than 8% in 1977. Bank debt as



- 4 -
a percentage of Tanzania's total debt was about 26% in 1977; this is pro-
jected to rise to about 29% in 1985 and remain stable thereafter. While
the favorable terms of much of Tanzania's foreign assistance (particularly
the increasing proportion of grants) significantly reduce the debt service
burden, they also increase Bank Group exposure. Debt service payments to
the Bank Group were about 28.6% of Tanzania's total debt service payments
in 1977, and are projected to rise to approximately 30% in 1980.
14.       Tanzania has a suitable development program which will require sub-
stantial domestic funds in excess of local savings and available non-Bank
Group external capital. Local cost financing is justified in view of our
support for the Government's increased emphasis on local cost-intensive rural
investments and the importance of not aggravating the local funds shortage.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has begun work on the
questions involved in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corpo-
rations and making recommendations on their allocation. The de facto breakup
of the Community is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget as new
national corporations take over the services formerly provided by the EAC
Corporations. While substantial initial investments are required (particularly
in the formation of the airways corporation and the rehabilitation of the
railways), the burden on the Government budget should be temporary as the new
corporations are expected to become self-financing. A major development
related to the EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya.
Kenya was a major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short run consider-
able adjustments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for some items
and developing alternative outlets for some manufactured goods and agricultural
products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA I/
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 34 IDA credits, and 16 Bank loans including
two on Third Window terms amounting to $604.5 million have so far been approved
for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans total-
ling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of the
common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya
and Uganda through their association in the East African Community. IFC
investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tourism Rehabilitation Project, dated November 29, 1978.



- 5-
Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial diffi-
culties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the
Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.75 million in soap
manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of
October 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and: credits
made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. The overwhelming
majority of the operations approved since then have been for directly pro-
ductive projects.  Furthermore, a number of Bank Group supported infrastruc-
ture projects have been closely linked with specific productive activities.
For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in
January 1977, will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No.
1385-T-TA and 1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and
Credit No. 833-TA). Directly productive projects recently approved include a
Tanzanian Investment Bank Project, a Tobacco Handling Project, a Second
Cashewnut Processing Project and a Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project. The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector, the
Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), approved in July 1976 will
provide the raw materials for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant, also
under consideration by the Bank Group for financing. Projects which have
been appraised include a Tourism Rehabilitation Project, a Second UJrban Water
Supply Project, the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project, lines of credit: to the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank andTanzania Investment Bank, a Fifth Highway
Project and a Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project. A rural development
project in Mara, a foodgrain storage and milling project, a harbours project,
an agricultural services project are also under preparation.
18.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear
in retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic
regarding Tanzania's absorptive capacity.  The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied.  Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic adminis-
trative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term benefits
-- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made parts of
earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, difficulties have been
most severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As
Bank Group lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these
problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast,
the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania



- 6 -
Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, and Cashewnut Processing Projects, for
example, are proceeding well.
19.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion.  A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement procedures with the relevant Government officials. A
special project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture
and nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank
Group projects. The need to establish a close and continuous working level
dialogue between responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on
implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the
Resident Mission to two professionals in October 1976. In February 1977 a
regular Government/Bank Group review of project implementation was established.
Discussions on the entire Bank Group portfolio chaired by the Ministry of
Finance and attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing
agencies were to be held on a quarterly basis. Steps to strengthen these
review procedures were taken in August 1977 when those meetings were shifted
to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed that periodically these
reviews will be conducted on an "in-depth" basis to discuss in detail indi-
vidual problem projects and problems which are affecting project implementa-
tion across a number of sectors. As a result of these reviews a number of
positive developments have been noted: actions agreed to during the reviews
have been completed and the coordination and communication between the Minis-
try of Finance and the various ministries and agencies responsible for project
implementation have improved markedly.
20.       The Government has also become increasingly conscious of the
importance of implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, the Ministry of Finance has now decided to set
up an internal unit to oversee project performance. Furthermore, there
have been more consistent responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness
to openly discuss project problems raised by Bank Group staff. As a con-
sequence, the disbursement record of Bank Group financed projects has improved
somewhat over the last two years, and a recent analysis indicated that the
Tanzanian disbursement performance is about equal to the Bank Group-wide
average.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN TANZANIA
Background
21.       At Independence in 1961, the most pressing problem of the new
Government was the scarcity of skilled manpower necessary to fill Government
posts and help implement the ambitious development program. At that time,
Tanzania's educational system served only a small minority of its total
population with less than 30% of all primary school age children enrolled in
schools and less than 8% ever reaching secondary schools. The general curri-
culum was oriented toward academic subjects and the urban and modern sectors,
although few people ever entered universities and over 90% of the population
lived in rural areas.



- 7 -
22.       In the Government's First Five-Year Development Plan (1964-69) the
major portion of the education sector's investments was directed at resolving
the manpower shortage. It gave priority to the goal of self-sufficiency in
skilled manpower by 1980 by expanding education at the secondary, higher and
adult education levels; it also resolved to establish a comprehensive educa-
tional system for adults and children as soon as financially possible. By the
end of the First Plan, the educational achievements in respect to secondary
school expansion were substantial: reflecting the large capital investment
program in new schools and major extensions of existing schools, total enroll-
ment at public secondary schools increased from 11,282 in 1961 to 29,958 in
1969. As important as the overall absolute increase, a reduction in dropout
rates resulted in total enrollments expanding about twice as rapidly as the
entry enrollments.
23.       Following the Arusha Declaration in 1967 (para 4 above), President
Nyerere sharply criticized the elitism, isolation from rural areas, and lack
of practical experience in formal eduction, and laid down guidelines for
reform in his policy of "Education for Self-Reliance (ESR)." Priorities were
to be shifted in favor of basic education for the entire population and
education curriculum was to aim at greater relevancy to the rural environment
(with many more farming and practical subjects introduced in schools). ESR
and the Arusha Declaration supplied the conceptual foundations for the educa-
tion proposals in the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74); this Plan established
the goals of Universal Primary Education (UPE) by 1989 and an end to illiteracy
by 1975. In addition, the government and local organizations were instructed
to develop adult and nonformal education programs in primary schools in order
to establish a framework for meeting the educational needs of the whole com-
munity. In spite of these new directions the goal of self-sufficiency in
skilled manpower by 1980 was not abandoned; the secondary and higher education
systems continued to expand but at a slower rate.
24.       In late 1974, near the end of the Second Five-Year Plan, the
Tanganyika African National Union's (TANU) 1/ National Executive Committee met
in Musoma to review the successes and failures of Tanzania's education system.
The resulting Musoma Resolution accelerated the target for UPE to November
1977 and recommended that before candidates are allowed to enroll .in universi-
ties they should have two years of work experience and receive a satisfactory
evaluation from both their employer and TANU. This resolution also supported
the existing educational policies of diversified secondary education, increased
practical skills, and self-reliance activities.
Present Environment and the Third Five-Year Plan
25.       Since ESR and the Musoma Resolution, impressive progress has
been made in reorienting the education system. In primary education, the
increases in enrollments bear witness to a dramatic achievement. Standard 1
1/   TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar
political party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new
party is called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 8 -
enrollments grew from 231,350 in 1974 to 540,200 in 1977 and 947,900 in
1978--the 1978 figure represents 90% of the total Standard 1 population.
Moreover, the acceleration of the goal of UPE from 1989 to 1977 led planners
and implementers to experimentation with inexpensive physical school plans and
much higher proportions of self help than had been previously achieved. Self-
help investments in schools and teacher houses were estimated at TSh 170
million (over US$20 million) in 1975. In addition, since the stock of trained
teachers was clearly inadequate for achieving UPE, various innovations on
recruiting and training (including distance teaching) were tried.
26.       In respect to the goal of eliminating illiteracy (para 23), enroll-
ments in adult education classes in 1975 reached 5.2 million, almost 90% of
the estimated adult illiterate population. On the basis of detailed tests, it
was estimated that the rate of effective literacy in Tanzania almost doubled
from 1967 to 1975.      Over three-fourths of the instructors in the literacy
courses were volunteers, mostly primary school graduates, and the program
made use of whatever physical facilities were available. Thus, in a number
of respects, the UPE and adult education programs were impressive and effec-
tive models for mobilizing existing physical and human resources for specified
educational objectives.
27.       In the Third Five-Year Plan (1976-80) the basic directions in edu-
cation remain similar to those charted by ESR and the Musoma Resolution. The
Plan restated that UPE be achieved by November 1977, and that all Tanzanians
should be functionally literate. In addition, the Plan calls for emphasis on
the output of teachers for higher education and a change in the content of
secondary and teacher education. In secondary education more emphasis is to
be placed on technical and commercial education to develop skills in areas of
severe shortages; teacher training will be introduced so that all graduates
will be qualified to teach in primary schools; and equality of opportunity for
women will be promoted by the provision of additional places for them.
Issues in the Education Sector
28.       While a number of the achievements in the education sector in
Tanzania are impressive (paras 25 and 26), serious problems have emerged in a
few areas. First, with the rapid post independence expansion of the sector,
problems have emerged in the quality and efficiency of the education system:
the management of an educational system with a great variety of schools calls
for skills which are in limited supply; the teaching cadre lacks experience
and there are major shortages in some subjects; there is duplication of
effort; etc. Second, while the total output of the education system is
roughly in line with the country-wide requirements, there are a number of
critical skill areas which face significant deficits. This is complicated
by weakness in the manpower planning system which is used to determine the
allocation of the labor force in Tanzania. Third, despite the national policy
of equal opportunity for women the percentage of women at the secondary edu-
cation levels and above continues to be low. Moreover, as women are generally
limited to specific streams, their numbers in many important skill categories
are particularly limited. Fourth, the impact on the budget of the rapid



-9-
growth in recurrent expenditures for education is a matter of concern. These
problem areas were extensively discussed with the Government during both the
review of the Basic Economic Report (para. 2) and the preparation of the pro-
posed project; a number of project components are specifically designed to
address some of them.
Previous IDA Experience in the Sector
29.       The realization of Tanzanian educational objectives has been
assisted by IDA credits in five previous education projects. Two projects,
financed in 1963 and 1969 and successfully completed in 1967 and 1976,
assisted the expansion of secondary education. These efforts were designed
to assist the Government in addressing its manpower needs. Supporting the
objectives of the Second Plan, the third project (financed in 1971 and com-
pleted in 1977), assisted agricultural education by financing the Ministry of
Agriculture's training institutes (MATIs) and Rural Training Centers (RTCs).
While the MATIs component was successful, the efforts to develop the RTCs were
weakened by a series of rapid institutional changes.
30.       The fourth project, which was approved in 1973 and is still under
implementation, is directed at developing multi-purpose community education
centers for rural areas, improving the training of primary teachers and pro-
viding facilities for medical education. The first two components addressed
the central concerns of the Second Plan while the later investment was aimed
at improving the facilities of Tanzania's new medical school. Implementation
of the fourth project began slowly but is now satisfactory. The fifth project,
approved in late 1975, financed a program for the training of village manage-
ment technicians (VMTs) who are working on improving village management, and
the diversification of secondary education. While both components of this
project started well and progress on the secondary education component is
satisfactory, the VMT component has been affected by changes in the rural
administration system; the effect of these changes is being carefully moni-
tored.
Priority Areas for Lending in Education
31.       In addition to the lending experience reviewed above, the Government
and the Bank Group have cooperated in undertaking substantial sector work in
education: a study of agricultural education, an inventory of secondary
facilities, two sector surveys, an evaluation and monitoring exercise and a
study of the fiscal implications of UPE have been comp'leted. This extensive
lending and sector work has resulted in the Bank Group focusing on two major
areas: rural training and addressing specific skill shortages. Bank Group
staff are presently completing a review of rural training and it is antici-
pated that this will result in the preparation of a significant rural training
component for a future education project. The proposed project is primarily
directed at addressing areas where Tanzania faces specific skill shortages
through vocational education and accountancy training. The other major com-
ponents of the project focus on two of the major sector problems discussed
above (para. 28): educational opportunities for women and the quality of
educational administration.



- 10 -
32.       In vocational education, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare's
(MOL) National Vocational Training Program (NVTP) encompasses the administra-
tion and operation of all vocational training and trade testing programs. The
core training institutions of the NVTP are three vocational training centers
(VTCs) which admit primary school graduates. The four-year VTC program
consists of an eight-month full time course followed by three-month short
courses in each of the three subsequent years of employment. In the proposed
project, financing is provided for the items necessary to ensure full utiliza-
tion of two of the existing VTCs (para. 39 below). The shortage of instruc-
tional staff, particularly at the VTCs, has been a constraint on the effective
implementation of the NVTP. While a pilot instructor program has been ini-
tiated at one VTC with bilateral support, it is not adequate to fully staff
the NVTP; in addition less than 50% of the current VTC staff are fully quali-
fied in their technical fields. The proposed project includes financing for
the establishment of the country's first instructor training center for the
NVTP (para. 40).
33.       The shortage of accountants at all levels has been highlighted in
recent Manpower Plans. The Dar-es-Salam School of Accountancy (DSA) was
established in 1973 by the Ministry of Finance and Planning to provide
training for technical (accounts clerks and storekeepers) and subprofessional
(junior accounts and bookkeepers) personnel. Under the proposed project the
DSA would be expanded to adequately meet the increased demand for staff at
these levels (para. 42).
34.       Despite the national policy of equal opportunity for women, second-
ary education has largely offered women only home economics and secretarial
careers. School enrollment data for 1976 indicate that one of the areas of
lowest female participation is in technical education: females account for
only 0.5% of enrollments in technical colleges. This exceptionally low
enrollment of women in technical colleges is a consequence of the token
number of women at the four Tanzanian technical secondary schools. Although
women compete freely with men for available places in these schools, they are
in fact excluded by the lack of hostel accommodation: women are accepted
only as day students or, in very limited number of cases, accommodated in
makeshift quarters. To address this problem the proposed project would
finance additional hostel places for women at each of four existing technical
secondary schools (para. 41 below).
35.       With the rapid growth in the size of the Tanzanian education system
the importance of effective administration in the sector has increased. Proper
training of the educational administration cadre will be critical to improving
the efficiency and quality of the system. To address this issue the project
will finance the replacement of a variety of ad hoc in service training
programs with a comprehensive program of management training for educational
personnel (MANTEP, para. 44 below).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was identified in July 1977, and was prepared
by the Government with assistance from UNESCO and the Bank Group. The project
was appraised in April 1978. Negotiations took place in Washington in
November 1978 and the Government Delegation was led by Mr. S. Tunginie,
Principal Secretary, Ministry of National Education (MOE). A Credit and
Project Summary is at the front of this report and the Supplemental Data Sheet
is given in Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "A Sixth Education
Project" (Report No. 2141-TA dated November 23, 1978) is being distributed
separately.
Project Objectives
37.       The major objective of the project is to assist in the development
of critical middle level management and skill training for the modern sector.
In order to accomplish this, the project provides for: (i) strengthening of
vocational and technical education; (ii) improved accountancy training (iii)
a program of management training for educational personnel; ( iv) greater
access of women to technical education; ( v) a study aimed at increasing the
effectiveness of the Institute of Education; and (vi) an improved monitoring
and evaluation system. These objectives are in line with Tanzania's Third
Five-Year Development Plan, which places emphasis on the teaching of skills
in short supply and the equality of opportunity for women.
Project Description
38.       Two general areas are being supported by the components financed in
this project: (i) vocational and technical education and (ii) accountancy
training and management training for educational personnel. In addition,
financing will be provided for a study of the Institute of Education.
(i) Vocational and Technical Education
39.       Vocational Training Centers (VTCs).  The proposed project would
include the provision of additional equipment, boarding facilities and staff
housing for the existing VTCs at Mwanza and Tanga. Accommodation to be pro-
vided for students would promote access to education for non-day students
from distant rural areas (150 places each at Tanga and Mwanza), and the
provision of staff housing would provide the incentives needed to attract and
retain qualified instructional staff. The importance of addressing boarding
and staffing needs has been highlighted in the evaluation of previous edu-
cation projects in Tanzania.
40.       Instructor Training Center (ITC).  The Government proposes to
develop a new instructor training center at Morogoro to provide teachers for
the NVTP. This location is supported by the extensive future industrial
development planned at Morogoro, its central location, and the availability
of land, power and water. The proposed project would finance equipment and
vehicles for field support for the ITC, instruction and boarding facilities
for 160 students, and staff housing. Additional staff houses would be con-
structed by trainees as part of the instructional program. Annual enrollment



- 12 -
at the ITC would be 160 students, comprising four pre-service groups of 30
each in 8-month courses, and two in-service groups of 20 each in 3-month
courses. Assistance from the Canadian International Development Agency for an
ongoing pilot instructor training program will continue until 1980. Following
a review of that program, the Government is expected to seek a continuation of
technical assistance from bilateral sources; the Government has agreed that
it would secure the necessary staff for the proper operation of ITC at Morogoro
when operational (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
41.       Access of Women to Technical Education.  In line with the Govern-
ment's goal of increasing opportunities for women, the proposed project would
add 160 hostel places to each of four existing technical secondary schools,
raising the potential for women's participation at this level from about 3%
to a planned 25% by 1983. While the total capacity in these schools would
remain about 2,800, increasing the number of usable hostel places would
ensure their full utilization and provide adequate boarding facilities for
women. Data indicate that the spaces proposed for women could be filled
by interested and qualified candidates. The enhanced boarding facilities
provided under the proposed project would be complemented by the improvements
of workshops and equipment recently provided under a bilateral grant from the
Netherlands.
(ii) Accountancy Training and Management
42.       The Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy (DSA).  Under the project,
it is proposed to increase the DSA enrollment from about 800 to 1,015. The
proposed project would finance construction and equipping of additional
teaching, boarding and administrative facilities, and the provision of staff
housing which is required because of the severe housing shortage in Dar es
Salaam. It is expected that technical assistance required to staff the
expanded facilities would be provided by the Swedish International Development
Agency or the Canadian International Development Agency. The Government has
agreed that it would secure the necessary staff for the proper operation of
DSA (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       This proposed expansion would add significantly to the stock of
trained personnel at technical and sub-professional levels, a high priority
in view of the shortage of qualified accounting staff at all levels. How-
ever, a major issue which has been identified in the accountancy sub-sector
is the rectification of the existing high failure rate at DSA (presently
about 85%); there are also questions concerning the examination system and
appropriateness of the accountancy curriculum in general. These issues have
been recognized by the Government and in order to examine them, a study, with
assistance from a panel of international experts, is expected to commence
shortly. In order to ensure that the proposed investment in DSA is accom-
panied by the resolution of these problems the Government has agreed to
furnish the report of the panel to the Association for comment by July 1, 1979
and thereafter, it would adopt and implement a plan of action adequate to
ensure the efficient training of accountants in Tanzania (Section 3.07 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The adoption of this plan of action



- 13 -
would be a condition of disbursement for civil works, furniture, vehicles and
equipment financed under this component (Schedule 1, para 4(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Management Training for Educational Personnel (MANTEP).  This
project component would consolidate and expand an existing administrative
program for the education sector. It would be located at the present College
of National Education in Bagamoyo, and would make use of several buildings
now under construction. The ten permanent staff members for MANTEP would
receive training at the East African Management Institute (EAMI) in Arusha,
and EAMI, together with other agencies such as the Institute of Education,
would assist in the preparation of curricula to be used in the training
program. Financing under the project would be provided for renovation of and
equipment for an existing seminary building at Bagamoyo, teaching materials,
the training program at EAMI, three vehicles, and a technical specialist to
assist in the development of MANTEP. The terms of reference for the instructor
training course at EA4I and for the technical assistance specialist required
for implementing the MANTEP program would be submitted to Association for
comment by December 31, 1979; the specialist would be appointed by March 31,
1980 with qualifications and on terms and conditions acceptable to Association
(Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       In-service training would be designed to meet the needs of each
level of the educational field staff from regional education officers to head
teachers of primary schools. Induction courses ranging from 1 to 4 months,
would cover such items as scheduling, accounting, evaluation activities,
report writing, methods of teacher, school and curricula appraisal, and
methods of instruction. About 2,800 staff members would be trained over
the first five years in these courses. The induction courses, once completed,
would be replaced by longer and more intensive training courses.
(iii) Project-Related Study
46.       The Institute of Education, established in 1964 as part of the
University of Dar es Salaam, has as its primary functions educational plan-
ning, evaluation and research, assistance in the development of curricula
and in-service training. The post independence changes in educational
policy have resulted in major increases in the work load of the Institute. A
major reassessment is required to define its future role, assess its staffing
needs and plan for physical expansion. The proposed project would include
a provisLon of US$75,000 to fund such a study; draft terms of reference have
already been reviewed by the Association and found satisfactory.
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
47.       The project would be inplemented over a period of about 6 years by
10E.  Sites for most project institution are already owned by the Governme-_t,
and in cases where sites have yet to be arquiired no difficulties are antici-
pated; suitable sites will be provided in accordance with the proposed project
implementation schedule (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
The Project Planning Section (Project Unit), an administrative architectural/
engineering unit established within MOE for the implementation of three of the
previous five IDA-financed education projects, would provide administrative
and professional services for this project. Besides the IDA-assisted projects,
the Project Unit administers other projects sponsored by other bilateral and
multilateral agencies. The Project Unit would be responsible for the design,
preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction works and
procurement of furniture and equipment. Should it be found necessary to do so
because of pressures of overlapping tasks, funds would be provided under the
project for the Project Unit to appoint suitably qualified personnel on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association to complete specific tasks
(Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       The Project Unit receives major technical assistance from the Danish
International Development Agency and the Norwegian Agency for International
Development, and both are expected to extend their technical assistance to
cover the implementation period of the project. It has been agreed that the
Project Unit would be adequately staffed throughout the project implementation
period, and that adequate training programs would be provided for local staff
(Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       In order to facilitate inter-ministerial coordination in project
implementation, the staff of the Project Unit would include a representative
of MOL. Furthermore, an implementation plan clearly defining tasks, lines of
reporting and decision making, financing and local staff training for MOL and
MOE would be prepared in consultation with the Association by June 1, 1979;
implementation of the plan would begin thereafter (Section 3.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  In addition to the technical assistance
provided under the project to conduct the pre-investment study for the Insti-
tute of Education, funds would be provided to support a continuous project
monitoring and evaluation system.  Implementation would be through the Project
Unit and the terms of reference for monitoring and evaluation activities would
be submitted to IDA for comment by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.09 (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). This item would build on earlier World
Bank-Institute of International Educational Planning assistance provided to
MOE for the training of evaluation personnel.
Costs and Financing Plan
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.0 million equiv-
alent. Project cost net of taxes and duties is US$14.4 million; US$8.3 mil-
lion in foreign exchange and US$6.1 million in local currency. Items imported
directly for the project would be exempted from taxes and duties. However,
as most of the building material, fuel and vehicles for transport would be
acquired by contractors on the open market, taxes and duties on these items,
estimated to total US$1.6 million are included in the project cost. Details
of the project cost are given in the Credit and Project Summary.



- 15 -
52.       The proposed IDA credit of US$12.0 million equivalent would finance
83% of costs net of taxes and duties; 100% of foreign costs and 61% of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified in Tanzania on country grounds (para
14). The Government would provide the balance of US$4.0 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties. The maximum Government contribution to the
project in any year, inclusive of taxation, is not expected to exceed US$2.2
million equivalent: this figure is about 4% of the education capital budget
and is within the financial capacity of the Government. The recurrent expend-
itures generated by the project would be about 2% of the estimated total ex-
penditures of MOE in 1982/83, also well within the financial capacity of the
Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment, including
vehicles, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The only exceptions would be
any civil works costing less than US$250,000, the construction of facilities
at Bagamoyo for MANTEP (where the estimated cost is approximately US$100,000),
furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000 each, and local
transportation services for furniture and equipment: contracts for these
items would be awarded by local competitive bidding. Sketch designs, draft
tender documents and master lists of furniture and equipment, including
proposed grouping (to permit bulk procurement), would be reviewed by the
Association.   Tender evaluation documents would be reviewed prior to contract
award except for building construction contracts costing less than US$250,000
each and for furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000
each. For the purpose of bid evaluation under international competitive bid-
ding, qualified domestic building contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5%, and qualified domestic manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing suppliers.
54.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be on the basis of (a) 70%
of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported furniture, equipment and vehicles; 85% of local expenditure
ex-store for locally manufactured furniture, equipment and vehicles; 90% of
local expenditures ex-factory for imported furniture, equipment and vehicles
procured locally; and 90% for local transportation costs; (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for consultant services, studies,
and monitoring and evaluation; and (d) 70% of total expenditures for project
administration.
Project Benefits and Justification
55.       The proposed project would consolidate and strengthen the existing
vocational training program by providing much needed equipment and accommoda-
tion in two of the existing Vocational training centers. In addition, the
quality of vocational and technical instruction would be improved nationally
through the development of a vocational and technical education instructor
training center. The proposed addition of boarding facilities would increase
female participation in secondary technical education from 3% to 25%.



- 16 -
56.       The project would also lead to an increase of about 70% over a
five-year period in the output of middle level accountancy manpower, skills
presently in great demand. Furthermore, as the institutional capacity for
training managers and administrators of the education sector has been minimal,
it is expected that the program for management training of educational per-
sonnel would have a major effect on the quality and efficiency of the education
system. The project would also provide institutional development support to
the Institute of Education by preparing a long-term development plan for the
Institute based upon an assessment of national curriculum development, re-
search, and related training needs.
57.       A significant percentage of project cost will finance boarding and
staff housing: student boarding amounts to 38% and staff housing constitutes
about 14% of the total project cost. The decision to recommend financing for
these items reflects a judgment that adequate boarding and housing facili-
ties are critical to the effective utilization of the institutions involved.
Of total boarding, about 40% is for women's dormitories to increase the par-
ticipation of women in technical education; an additional 20% is required for
the vocational training centers where the lack of boarding has resulted in
underutilization of the facilities; the remainder is needed to ensure regional
equity for enrollments at national institutions. About half of the staff
housing is required for the vocational training centers; these are viewed as
essential to attracting qualified staff to these institutions. The bulk of
the remainder is for the Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy which has faced
severe recruitment problems due to the current housing shortage in Dar es
Salaam. The housing standards to be used have been reviewed and found appro-
priate.
Risks
58.       The project's emphasis on consolidation and quality improvement
at a time when manpower planning is facing severe problems minimizes the
risks of overproduction and misallocation associated with an expansionist
project. Where expansion is the goal it has been with a focus on specific
critical skill areas, e.g. bookkeepers and accountants where the needs are
clear. The major risk in this project therefore lies more in its execution
than in the areas chosen for support. Although three ministries (Finance,
MOL and MOE) are involved in the project, the main responsibility for imple-
mentation rests with the existing Project Unit of MOE. Close coordination
among concerned ministries at the critical stages of design, tendering and
procurement will therefore be necessary. Measures proposed to ensure the
necessary coordination are described in para 49. Another potential problem
is shortage of qualified staff required to run the various project-supported
institutions. This issue was discussed in detail with the Government and
a staff development plans would be developed for the vocational Instructor
training center, the Dar-es-Salaam School of Accountancy and the management
training of educational personnel program. These plans would be -submitted
to the Association for comment by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The adoption of a plan of action adequate to ensure the efficient
training of accountants in Tanzania would be a condition of disbursement for
that component of the project (para 43).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 29, 1978



-18-                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TAN1AlIA -- SOCIAI. LND)r:ATOR3 D)ATA f.a:rT
UERtR8HE rl' cPS 4A1)tH WSTED AVPEA('EI
LAN) AREA (TliOUSAND SQ. ).)                  TANZANIA -;r LTcvs' 1i.    A
TOTAL            945.1                                                    SAKI.        SAP(i.    NEXT liCiiEg8
AGRICULTURAL     508.3                                 3DST rICERT      lEOCIJ.APHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIVIAE 1        IEGI(Al /c   GROUP /d    GRouP le
GNP PER CtPITA (USS)                   70.0 ,f    110.0 .Lf 200.0 if         223.6       182.9        432.3
ENERGY C0 sbuUPrTION -ER CArTIA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      41.0         62.0      69.0             66.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STTI&STI.S
TOTAL POPUl.ATION, M1D-5EAi
(MIILLIONS)                        9.6 If      12.9 If   15.5 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENr OF TOTAL)  4.6          5.5        7.3             13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. I;M.                       10.0        14.0       16.0            18.4        46.9        42.7
PER SQ. K!H. AGRICULTURAL LAND     20.0        26.0       30.0            53.6       254.1        55.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.5 ILA   44.4 /h   46.7              44.4        43.6        441.9
15-64 YPS.                         55.5 L..A   53.0 Lh   50.9              52.7        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AN13 ABOVE                   2.0 /f..    2.6 1h    2.4              2.8         2.9         3.0
POPULATIO?N GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         3.0 If    2.7 /f           2.6         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               5.0         5.6        7.5 1T          s.8         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH EAT_ (PER THOUSAP4D)     51.5        50.5       4i.0            46.9        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.1        23.0       20.1            20.6        19.7         12.4
GeOSs REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.2        3.3             3.1         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEP-O.S. AhNNUL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USER' (lERCLNT OF IRLD WOMEN)    ..               ..        ..             2.5        14.6         14.2
FOOD &KND F.IIITION
INDEX OF FMOD PRODUCTION
PrR CAlITA (1970-100)              91.6       100.0      107.5            94.2        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORlES (PFRCEST OP
REEQUIRLKENTS)                   69.0        8S.0      86.0             S0.1        92.3        99.5
PFOTEINS (GRAMS rEX DAY)          42.0        43.0       47.1            55.2        50.0        55.8
OF trUICE ON1IAL ANDI PULSE      22.0 Li     23.0       20.0            17.1        13.9        17.5
CqLD (AGES 1-4) M4ORTALITY RATE        ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          7.5
H'IFLTE
LlfE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEA/tS)    3f .7       41.8       44.5            43.7        45.B        53.3
INFANI H;ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           190.0       160.0jl       ..           138.4       102.7         S2.5
ACCESS TO SA'E WATER (PERCENT OF
PDF ULATION)
IOTAL                                ..        13.0       39.0            22.4        26.4        31.1
UREAN                                *-        61.0       88.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                *-         9.0       36.0            10.4        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DlSPOSAL (PERCE;T
OF POPUILATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..       17.0            23.9        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..           ..      88.0            70.3        65.9        69.5
RDRL.                                ..           ..      14.0             14.2        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PilYSICIAN         21750.0/f.k 21570.0 4,70760.0 /f       21757.5    13432.7       9354.2
kUrilAluim ErRk 8h.ub    PERSCe;    9240.07iki  4.0  i SGGe.O ;.          ;473.e      6^S;.;        72-
POPULATIcEN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             570.01f.k   700.0 If      ..           645.4      1157.6        786.5
IRHAN                                ..           ..        ..            172.9     13.3         278.4
RKIAI,                               ..           ..        ..          1292.6      134P.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER 11)SPITAL BSD           ..           ..        ..             19.2       19.5         19.2
UIOVSINC
AIERACE SIZE OF lI3USEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.4 /h      ..              4.9        5.2
ITRBAN                               ..          3.                           0        4
RURAL                                           Zs 4.714
AVERAGE NUHLRAX OF PERSaIS PER ROOMI
TCiAI                                ..           ..        ..               .           ..
V RBN                               1.8 j  ..               ..               ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCl:SS 0 E.lECTEIJCITX (PEP.CFI:
AC? ysIOEL EU
CP- VUELLI t:CS )
TOTAL.                               ..           ..        ..               ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        8.7         10.3



-19 -
TABLE 3A                                            ANNEX  I
TANZANIA  SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                  Page  2  of  5
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TANZANIA                        - MOST RFCENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGI1ER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 24.0         35.0       57.0 *           52.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                16.0         28.0      46.0 *           37.6        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   2.0          3.0        3.0              8.0        14.4         17.7
FEKALE                 1.0          2.0       2.0              5.0         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0            ..         ..              7.2         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDtARY                            45.0         47.0       53.0 *           43.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          20.0         19.0       20.0 *           22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5        28.1 A    49.0 /I           20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPITION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          2.5        2.6              3.9         3.1          7.2
RaDIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         11.0       16.0             40.1        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.3         ..              2.2         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION    -               3.0          5.0       3.0              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER.CAPITA  0.5            ..         ..              1.2         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4900.0 lo   5600.0/f ,h6300.0 /
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.1         36.6       36.3             32.6        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              96.0 lo      91.0/Efh  83.1              73.3        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.8          5.0         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7        43.5       42.2             42.0        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  56.9         55.7      54.3             54.8        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                32.8         31.5      30.3             27.3        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1 /o       1.2/f.h   1.2              1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ICOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.5         ..             25.7        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          63.3         *-             55.1        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         2.3         ..              5.8        '5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         7.8         ..             14.5        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      117.0            108.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       89.0             74.1        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVIRTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      146.0            124.4       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 *- -                 45.0             59.6        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       25.0             26.8        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       85.0             47.6        48.0         36.7
Not available              *  These  are  1975  estimates.   Data  for  1978  are  reflected
Not applicable.                in  the  Appraisal  Report.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifor-.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
1c    Africs South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita. 1976);  /f  Mainland Tanzania;   L&  1957;   /h  1967;   Li  1967-73;  /L   1961-63;
/   1962;   /1  Registered, not all practice in the country;   /m  1958, Zanzibar only;   /n  1972;   /o  1963.
September 1978



-20--                                                                       ANNEX I
_____N_T__________r_C_______________                                              Page   3 of   5
ote,:  Alth-ahf the dare  r  dreun  frau *ur.es genrallo  judged rta mote .uthOrlttfo. .nd relisble. ii sh-ld .1- o                       me nted thi,t they may not be inter-
slnllyreril    oue Ofrh  Ic   Iot :rad::ar,dirdAdfInictio. and conepts  ,,ed by diff,rent Cou-trIeo 1n cAl,cting the dAta.   The data ar.. nosnethelese.
uac  citodc.rIh  cier  ofnenlrde   hliet.trnd., and characterlee certsin mA or dl ffrehrc.. h-e-e  outis
P~'~ rhe i vr-d  ~r"~,p  .a         frech Indicator are poymmlt1o";.wight.d geenori   eas   nldn t,crre......   fI,e, of Ithe _ind iatr and the cost
popluird   r. In mu>.  r.  _. Coter,rr ofet-tries  mon   the ind cat-r  d:ep:nd. -r -cnlcllf'oo'I ;r                d I,ntuifom             etoc lak of dare
ge..r-p rae   tor Cap -ocry-.  Oil Espor--  an  ndi              .tro  arc...  to wae   n   oceadeoal    otn.incon  di.trlburlo  and p-vrt, are
clyde  youi,:to,-wefcse   gemomari   nnsicut th  excuson  f  ntrrn  osu .d                   -.d...       htg
iLAsoD &fiA  :toso    vo)Populatlon, cer h-pi.tel hbd                                                                                  -bal .nha. and rural - Population (totl.1
Tntul - Thta- sufaca urea  -oPrisiog land area cod ihlaod octers,                            urban, and rotal) di'cidcd by their respective  -ubef of hospital  beds
Mclcrua        ost m.c.nt estImate of agricultural areas used to.porarily            available to Public and pri-ate gen era  and speclmLi-cd hospital and re-
oyeee.tyfor crops, pastus's,, turkot and kitchen gardens o  to                    hhl.I   tato enters.         . op ital o1re e.sablithnents per..nanenly staffed by
lIe tallowI. atlat one Phycicla.  Etotbli:ho...nto provIidng principally o.ctdial
care are not inoloded.  R-ra  h.pitaIs  ho-evr.-Include health med eedl-
_N (OCf L M fl  - GNP per capit  estImtes at current market prices,                   Cal centers no  pe-anetly otaffod by            hynCioa   (bu"   yaeeta   s
falcuiate: by eune co-vr.lan method as Wend Senk Atlas (1975-77 baais);                       t .nus,mdw,ife. etc.  which offer in-pacisot arcormodao  and
J'i6o. 197l   n   c7   as                                                                  previd. . limited Iaue of  edica   f cilitis
Admissions per hospita1 bed - totLI somber cf admissions tc sr discharges
ZLOINEGY C00NiL7'yhlOf PER CAPITA - Annual cossuaptl0n cf icomercial soerg                    froin hospitals divided by the somber of beds.
ICoal and :Lgnite. Petroleum, natural gaa and hydra- *nuclear and geo-
thermal -lotnlcity) is kilcgram        f co ral equivalent par capita.                IiousiOlc
A,or.ge mice of household (persons noer household) - total, urban. and total1-
POM..ATION y2'7 VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A hous. ehld consists ci a group of individuals who share living quarters
tota  po.talor  rt--Y..' (etl11.io) - A. of July 1; if set eAyllabl*.                   and tbh. mi  mas    A boarder or lodger may Cc may mst he included In
aveCags c.  e   v-eretocs   1960, 1970, and 1Oly  ata,the hosehold for ststlatical purposes.  Statistical definitlens  of house-
Urb.n p.pulatten (orotoftotl)- CRtoIiuba   o  ca  ppl-                                       hl       y
tlan; dif-erent ded"oltlu-  of urban areas  a  aYfftcouparblllty                        Aeg  ebrofPar,e,, pet roo. -ttlurban, and rc.rL - Average sum-
of data  moog cootis.hrefpron.e.ro s  l.uban, and roral occupiad coventia...l.
PPo_lol1ato  7doqisiy                                                                        duallisgg, respettively.  Dwuellinsg  exclade son-permanemt atrccur.s  and
Per ,c. ho. - Old-year populstiso  per sqsare kilocetcer (100 hectare.)                  unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access to electricity (Percant of dw'ellins)   Ctotl. urban. and  urot: 
Pe 9c.Ic.aricultotre 1esd - Computed as ahoy. fer agricultural land                 C...e.tcnl..I d.ellings wIth electrIcity In living quarters.&a percentage
nly.                                                                                   ofci ttal, urban, and rucal duelling. respectively.
Population  gos tscroute -percent) - Children  (0-lA  years), working-age
(1l-64 years), and retired (A5 yaars and over) am percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
Ter PpOpcZ;loo                                                                       Adjusted enrolln...t ratios
Populatio.n  robrte(percent) - total, and urban - Concymund annualPiayscol ttl.adfsl  - Ttstl and femiale  -nrIAnt  fi al, ages
growth rues of trcra. and urban eid-yaac populatlosn  for 1950-Al.                         at the primary le-el as percentages of rsspectively primary .chool-age
196-0,nd  107-TI                                                                           peplaros   cersly inclodem childrea aged h-1l years hut adjusted for
Crd -irh  at   per tosn)- Anaua1 live bitths par thousand ofdipfflernt  sngothm  of prilnacy  d.cation(  fot countries with universal edo-
mid-year  ypitn;ten-year aritfutecl  averages ending in 1960 and                           Cation enrrelmeo tray .cced hO0 percent aisc* acme pupils are belowc or
197ad fIve-year average ending in 1975 for most r....ot estimate,                         above the official school age.
Cr-lr death rare (pev iho.... d) - Annual. deaths per thb.....d of mid-                    Secondxry School - total, and female1  - Computed as above; secondary educe-
year populatic%l tent-year a-itetic avetages ending in 1960 and 1070                       tion requie  at ltfor yerss  appro-ed prleay instruction; .ro-
and fi--vr average ending in 1975 for meet fc.cot estimate.                                vide  enrel v Ccuticnal   ory Iceabr trainicg instructions for pupils
iross t*oroloc tion rates-Av.eraga number  if.d;ught:r:cs a  oc.,n sill heer                 ucually of 12 to 17 ye.ar  of age; correspondence tcuraae  art generally
inhr Ira  eepreiucti ve Perodi   bs  ecpriencspresast  go-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usuaily fins-year averages ending is 1960,                    Vereienl enrollment (percent ofaterndary) - Vecatisnal 'aiuin    n
1970. and :975.C1dud   technica.   industrial. or other progres whic-h Operate independently
famil  piactIn  - aceptos, anual(rl" neu.d S) - Annual number oi                  or as depart ..nts of secondary instituticon
"cYpor   of   it-cnrs  dvces under  upcsof national family                             PuoPIit hnbr rtias - Prirury. and a.oday- Itlsuet   noldi
plannIng  rogr.m.                                                                          primacy and  sccndarY lsv.els divided by numbers of teachers is the.are
faiy  lncn   _ users fpercent of   rrciad women) - Permectag. of                      apanding lees.
marriled tues of child-heating age (15-4A years) who use birth-control.                Adult literacy a.ts (percent) - Literate adults (able to read sod writs) as
ds-ice. to all married woman in mamae age group.                                           a psrcmstag. cf total adult population Aged 15 years mod over.
FOOD ADli ffPtTION2                                                                      C0NSL'IPTiON
Index of foxd trodoct.on per c-pita (1970-100) - Ind" somber of par                      Passeenger Cars (per thou.snd Population) - Passenger care comprise motor cars
tmpteen Ia productio  adal    d co-moditla.                                           seating less them might pesrons; maclode. Ambulances,  hoeasees and military
yet ,slaspl  of caorIe  (esrceto  r.ccirem.nts) - Csmputed itmrshols
enrdg.y.ryuuvae    uf st foad supplias  vcailabls in coutry per capita               Radio receivers (.ot thousacd  ovoulation) - All ty'pem ci rec.ivers for radio
per da.  Available supplies comprise domesti,c production, imrports loss                broadcasts tC. generalt public yet thousand uf population; sacldes, unlicens.ed
espects. and changes in stock,  Net supplies oxclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers i. countites end 10 years whes registration cf.radio sets  .sm in
quan.tities  mmcd in food processing. and losses in diatribution,  Re-                  Affect; data for recent years "m  at c  he comparable sicce  M.set Countries
quiceceets wets  "ntimt    byPAO hasad cn phoslolcgical needs for nor-                  abolished 1lc.naiog.
,al ativity andseath   Yonideriog sovirornntI tanparaturm, body                        TV receivers Coer thous.endpylain    TV tecelvere fmr broadcast to ge...rto
_eights,  ageand  sa   Intribticas of population, and allowing 10 per-                     pablic.peratho"usard.fopulatioc; encoudes unlicensed TV receivers Cs ceun-
cent  or coe at  ousehld levl                                                       tries and inyaswhnrgsration of TV sets was Inefct
Per capita splof frtein (crmsou ce  day) - Protein content of Pa                     per Osraecirculation (per hbsusad population) -  hosth  average circula-
napit  ar net  uPpl  o: I1    food yet day.  :;et supply of fond is defined as            tie. of  'daily general Intere.t ..t.spaper". defined as a periodical publi-
shove .  Requiraaests for all countries established by UODA provide for                   tcitio  devoted primarily to re..ording genrarl sews   ft is.csid red to
a  i.inc  allowance of 60 grams s  total protein per day sod f0 grams                    bs "daily" If it upp.rs at least four times a .omek
or a- sInan.cd pulse prsteis. ci which 10 grant should he animal protein.              Cinens annual a ttendance n r carpiC  Parr-sr - $asod os the number of tickets
mes   st-umiads are lwethus t hosefi7) grams of total protein and                         Icd dutiht the year. Inlu~ding adnimpaeis  tc drive-ic cinetes, and  obil.
221 gram   faia rti   sa  average fc cr whorld, propose.d by                              uis
FAT 1 ins thl.ird 'forld fee lotvs.
Percait  rntlnsanl  ionanimal sod pul.e-Prti  supply of food                   EMPLOYMEN0T
derived frcs  sel   n  pu:lses in frame p5t day.                                       Total labor force  toons            E ..on.mIcally active p.rasns, iacluding armed
Chl  (oe  -) noftait, eas(per tho..asd) -  a.nuI deaths per those-                    forces and unemplcyed hut e.cluding housewives, studenis, ec..  D.fini-
and inZ agaroop 1-. years. to children In this age group.                                 tlons in various countries are not Comparable.
femaele (perer   - F.-I.e labor force as parcau.a. o.       f total Ilabcr feroc
HEL-Hgariutr i.. cegrc ..ti - L.bcr force in farming. foeascrY. hunt ing  e  fiehir
Lif  espctoocy at hirth 'Yeas"          Average nuber oi years of life                      as percentage ci total1 labor icrce.
r-maiEin. at hirtC;;rus-mlyfive-ye.r averages ending lv 1960. 1970.                    Intdustrv (oer0reni   - Labor forete    mInIng,  osruto,manufacturing And
and 1975.eetii.   .wate  and guuspcntg f teta1 labar fcre..
In fant mortalIty  -tut  fret theu-and) - Annual death. oi infants under                 Particiratioc rate Cp.rz emf     tota, male, sod feomale - Total, male, and
.ms year ofagpathuad10    rt.                                                             female labor force a. pe1rcetuies of their cespe.ctiv. populations.
Aces  to saf  ctr (torrento I't:,._tIeI     total. atban. end rural -                   Theac are tLO,s adjuatnu  p-rtieiystiom, rates reflerring a-80ena
u-ber oi ;peo.l  roa.  ubas, and rural ) with reasonable acesccc.                         st ructre of the populatio. endc long time trend.
safe utter supply   -' c'nide9 treatesd suriace caters or untreated but                Ecosonic dere-denon ratio - ratio of popuiatisv under 15 and 65 and over to
u_cont..nty.od watersuh a htfromCpoeidbrbos.srns                                           he labor fort. in age group of 15-hi yeare
ad ... 1ttwlt sPeretgso0f Cbetiv respectivepopalatirs..
.0  5 ubu  ape aynlic fi.u.ain orCsadyt located net roetlC-!DfTfL'1t
then 201 osert    f    a hou-  saybh  cons.ideIre  a  being wthi  tea                 -Percentao1 of frivare intone (both in cash and hind) received by richest 5
scohiea:osuoftat  hom. IInralre.'reasonabl   ccess ..ould                            p,crcent. rmcho C  0 percent. poorest 20 perceot. and pocr..t 40 percent
Loyly tia: 'ce h-mo-ife or %embero of the house:hold dv mot hav- to                       of h .... olds.
,rend alnrprtlaut  part of thedainfihing the featly's
Access to  s       - oouIcsa   vret ct ooutIitiLn)- talurban. and                    F.tt!m.-d uc-lote Povery tcon  le-e  (US$ per caPita) - urbn and rural-
rut.-. - zo  of p,,;o (totl  uri v. adrura) etrvad by .. rcrAtaAonsots povertY i-c-e  -'te  is trot income level below which a stoial
'usponla:     ersc.t  rri             rsotu  poyubatloe               "arrsnuritionally ad.quat. fbI- plua eseta mOn-food r.quicremets is not
Orte-s  of pit feb li.  -nd eliia-  io-tall.C1atin.                                   rltv    oetyicy                   is that 1scoma lavel lea. themanen-third
uho   ca     ocainJvn    innu   fpacuo                                       e   aiaprae    noao  tha  .00t".
si -!. 1ua   te!d from  a sdi-ci -nonl  t -vi-erity fe1.                      fe Lstrteat                                               "c"fn.nhboyvtyicnaini~,eetf   urban and rural-
L,Z ItIl  ;i'ctrv -    t.n-Popular ion dbid.d by numeber of                             f-c fppltion  (urban and  .rurl) who ae sitier  'absolute peer" or
ptatfc:.;toutt  (co.  graduate .o.r.... fr-ctica1 ..r.... ond                        "refativa pnor" hchi      -rve  is great..r.
tronomi  and JbikStsPve



-21-
ANNEX, :I
_A___I                                                             Page -4of 5
7c36a02c 21V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0F3~~~~~~~rr 363A  29032 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~         ~          i9a-        2,,
'.974         1973           .9 7           1 977         198            297    I       '.990          J385           150          1.97 3         :960            383          ;or
Mr1                                                    2384.21        26.6.         2612.2         27 37 .6       28 76.1L      3026. 3        3183. 1         La?07.3      5229. 9           S. 1           3.1            3.3         L00.0
I.S.o  0~~~~~~  of  ,.,2ofl ~~~~~~~74.9 )                68. 7          299           109.0           73.0          -8.2          -40.3         -L03.1        -168. 1                                                     -3.1L
o. ~~~~~~~o..  ~~~~~~~ 34 ~~~~~2439.1                      23 78.I        2.a2. .        2346. 6        28996.1       3018. 7        3140.8 a        009.1         3163.3           4.3            3 .3          3 .0          96. 9
611.1          736.2         182.a          743.7         '90._7         30.             37 .7         966.          1 190.2          3.6           4.0            3.3          22. 3
0 .   .t    *6i                                              4170.0         507.7         037. 7         333. 3         574..           9.             0.           783           14.              0.71           3.9           4.810 95
5          T .413.0                                   344.8         4,39.2         587.35         662.35         5  33.3        8.            578.0          686.4          375.0         -..31          .4.4            3.3          1.
7   oo*   .  2A       !  4oo."                            366.3          317.3          ,124.3          91. 1        193.3          732.31         239. 7         310.0         313.3             .                                          39
8.  2oC.1  1oo8.~~~~~~~~~~~~~1o~~~           2318. 0        2176.1        2200.1         2303.4         2481.         2386 .4        3732.8         342.1.6        43.1.7.3.70.
9.   b..o                                                     07.3          319.0         356. 4         344..          601.2          634.3         677.9          893.5         11835.0          6.0            3.6           3.7          Z233
10.  79.81.. 2l    39                                         193.3          360.9         330.9          529.3         1.92.9         3 14.8         7 03.9  -      .6.3           948. a        .0.0           -1.6            3. 7          17.3
11. ~~~~~~.11o  SC~~~~~~~.t64 ~~~~1,41.1                     202.0          382. 3        463.3          417.0           3.            41U8.1        383.35         86.7           ..              3361.
M3 3P 48          C OS 9                                  2246.3        2303.9         3706.8         3387.3         3943 .9       4323.3         4870.2         5 814.1       1604.3.0
MP32  .  1974676 5     o.
17.3           153.          1.3.           16.0           163           1.7            1.              9.3           2 2.8          6.37.                        8.3
g~~~~1eo.1~~~~~~~~.                    38.0          48~~~~~~~~~~.3  40.2          39.3          18.6           37.5           37.3          34.3           31.4           2.4            3.3            3.2
3.  s..,~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.. ~~~~~~46.3                          44.0           463             4.7          .5.1           15.3           43.6          .6.2           46.3            3.6           53.            .3.
?93C2S I 1976..76 . 1303
1.  Zo,9  3,00. :4.A-                                         99 1           90.7          112.6         137.2          129.3          132..          133.0         177.9          243.1                         -.3.           6.-
:o976 . 1d..                                     60.3         1.04.9          1306.7        124.6         1.24.3          134.3          144.5         204.3          288.3 .0.
3.  Z.-      97-4.   :"-                                     112.3           96.3         1.00.3         :19.7         '134.2           98.6           93.2           97.4          94.0
..    P D3.  -480  .00                                      94.1         103.3          L03.           1323.0         137.1          14.3           53.0          214.6          201 .3           .             7.3           7.3
0.  A--q.5 I.48            - 90   220  613100                7.143          7.414         9.379
1960-72       1974-76        17-6            9-0
1.:Cox                                                       3.6           4.3                    4.1    4.
in00 -1U011.                                          1.8          .3.4            1.1             .
3.   m09        0.0   618    4    2/                          13.5            9.7           14.6           14.8
90010.o3  46.1066  9.48* 1.'    1.3.2         1~~~ ~       ~~0:.9  17.4     16.6
3. w-10  U.I1o1 S-t.1.. U..                                    3.15     .2   I0.                            0.
i. :.w~~~~~./ CDP      ~383                                  317            26.8           24.1
18.7   21.3           29~~~-.9      21.31
U. J..r.  3.P/00Y                                            3.2           10.9           i.2            7.4
1.                                                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~973
2.    P1o9-0  12. 00..)                                                          100.0
~~~~~~ 2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
511111.10   000123..)                   ~1!65/6                          1.970/7        i970/73        i973/71       1973/74        1,974/75       1972/76       2976377
3.o,o  9o..~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ~~~716                       1683          189            2337           3023          3946           3919           .762
1 2.6  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    6~~~~02       2364           1431           1927.         2608           3161           3302          4163
-. 1.r.8    .690.c.73                                                33           1781            2323         2783           3961           3716          am40
3.1L 34._.1  Z040.0o67                                                      333            S"4            749           94              61           L1137
J.  1st _ 0   80g                                              9             52             79            134           230            .2.5          203            362
700.196 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~.866          ..                           38~~~~~~~~~~I  12           214,           37             64.3         1660
3.7.1090.68  ~~~~~~~~~c.017~~~~.     ..             00~~~~        117            196           .3          -30               648          2022
D. j..:. 9~..                                              39          -  89            984            69              4           2223..         1233          3709
7.  30.r.11  3.01010                                           .787           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40'I  -.90 .863  140           4687
2.0000.6  40.0.                         ~~~           ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~~~33  270  347  456  .67     ,61
~SC03 -0064:
234.           236           2069           3446           .2
00o00-0.Om                          ..           ~~~~           ~~~~            ~~~          ~~~~       ~~~~313  164  31  327  7 33
1/ ~~.010  06.166. 68 0 7000060690  of 000.6  3~~~~~.010  406.                                                                                                    000u



-22-
TANZAM4%                                              ANNEX  I
SJUXNCE or ?AYMSrrs AS'o  MMz        .iSSISTANCE                         Page   5  of  5
1974        1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         :985         L990
A.   Sl  OF 3ALANC! OF ?9AY2f4T2
1.  Exporrs (Uncn. 747s)                                        465.9        460.7        605.5        759.7        742.7        787.8        537.3       1402.39      232  9
2.  rmports (incl. fFS)                                         779.0        793.5        727.9        S52.8        970.5       :086.3       1213.5       2036.1       3429.2
3.  Resou.irce B                                                313.1       -332.3       -U22.4         93.0        227.8        298.5      -376.2         533.7      -908.2
4.  4at Factor Srvtct Income                                     -8.8        -10.3        -24.6        -21.1        -18.7       -21.J         -27.3        -75.3       -L43.8
1.  At lancrest Pymencs of uhich                           -13.6        -16.1        -18.3        -16.1        -13.7        -L6.0        -22.3        -65.3       -.33.S
Interest an ?ubllc It & LT7 1a-Ss                          (-      11.1)      (-U.5)             (-15.1)  (-17.6)    (-20.2)      (-27.7)      (-79.1)    (-561.9)
2. 2rect Inv        ttncan    7                                           C                        C            C           (            C           C            (
3.   orkars aimttance (Net)                                  (4.8         (5.8       (-5.3        (-5.0        (-5.0        (-5.0        (-5.0       (-10.0       (-LO.0
4.  Othe raFccorSavineIoce_ (lr)                             (            (           (            (            (           (            (           (            (
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                      30.1         71.0         77.9         94.9        110.4        129.4        L47.9       235.6         362.5
6.  Balance on Currenc  ccount                                 -291.8       -272.1        -69.1       -L9.2       -136.1       -190.1       -255.7       -473.4       -6d9.6
7.  Privaet Direcc  n"s.nt                                       24.5         27.5         12.3         20.0         20.0         24.0         28.0         35.0         35.3
Public M  4 LT Loans
8.  Dtsburx-m-nts 1/                                            143.1        229.9        116.8       215.3        187.2        271.6        313.5        328.2         3L8.7
9.  oirtzascon Vo                                              -14.9        -15.3        -15.3       -26.5        -27.3        -28.2        -41.4        -51.0        :01.;
10.  Stc Dimburss   It I/                                        128.2        214.6        101.5       189.3        !59.9        243.4        274.1         77.'        7L7.2
Cther '1 & LT loans
11.  oisbugrsnts 2/                                               18.2         19.9         12.6          7.2          4.7          1.2          0.6          0.3          0.0
12.   mnrtizacion  2/                                             -3.0         -3.2         -6.2         -7.1         -5.1         -5.2         -5.3         -5.3          o.o
13.  :cr  33bursneocs 2/                                          15.2         16.7          5.4          0.1        -0.4         -4.0         -4.9          -5.3          0.O
14.  Use of 7   Rasourc*s 3/                                      46.3         28.6         24.3        -24.4         -9.0       -39.0        -20.3           0.0          0.0
15.  Short-C.1c CapiLal Transactions                              24.1          0.0        -18.9          0.0          0.0          o.0         0.0           0.0          0.0
15.  Capital. 7rraoctons. 4.e.i.                                 -31.4        -54.0        -31.2         0.0          0.0          0.0          o.0          0.o           0.0
17.  -b--ge in rasrv s (- - increase)                             84.3         38.7        -24.2      -L65.S        -34.4        -34.3        -21.2        -33.5        -56.3
3.  GRAN4TS AND LOAAS CCSMZT2I4T
1.  Official Grant                                              100.0        187.9        123.7        100.0        109.0        118.8       129.5         199.3        306.6
2.  Total public If 6 L  Loans                                  260.4        152.3        183.0        136.5        259.5        249.0        274.3        446.3        703.4
2.1  7JRD                                                    65.0         30.0        37.0          33.0        62.5         44.0         49.0         79.9        128.6
2.2  IDA                                                     51.2         10.0        52.0         49.2         92.5         71.5         71.0         33.1        214.4
2.3  Othez )8.ltil-tWr2l                                      7.1         18.0          5.0         !0.3        L0.0          10.0         10.0         10.0         10.3
2.4  Govermanrs                                             127.1         94.3         77.3         99.6         99.2       189.7        234.9         376.3        574*
of which centrally planned economias 4J              76.5          5.4           -           2.0          5.3         LO.3                L5.0  15.0          5
2.5  Suppliers                                                 -            -            -         10.0          11.4        L3.0         14.3         23.9         38.4
2.6  Financial Irscluctions                                    -            -          11.7                                     -            -
2.7  Brnds
2.8 Public Loans, a.a.L.                                       -     *        *   _      _     _                                                           
3.  Other S & LT Lo en  (dhere availab1)5/                       5.6          2.9          6.0           -            -                                      -
C.  !2lORM1t, ;T4%9
1.  Grsn  Elro'nt of Tocal Cmaitt      s                         63.5         69.6         71.3        75.1          74.7         72.6         71.3         72.1         72.8
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                                    2.2          3.5          3.3         3.0           3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          2.9
3.  everage  4acurtcy (Years)                                    32           42           36          35            36          36           36           36            36
L/  Includes flnacing of projected balance of paymncs deticic (1977-1990) on 50% BSan/=0%  EDA cerms.
2/  Disburs rn; and repamntc of 3an  loans for LAC projects of which Tanzania's share is a wotional 45O percent.
5/  Nert of "Drawing" and "8epeyment by Purchase".
4/  Includes  CI.A councries. Pple's Republic of China  .orth Korea, Socialist Republic of Vitecnn.
5/  .apresncs a noctionaL 40 percent of Bank loans for EAC projects.
ZAN         9
January 5,17



- 23 -                     ANNEX II
- 23 -                      Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
Undis-
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/  bursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 70.2           90.8
586-TA    1969  Tanzania  Roads                                7.0                    1.4
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                    10.8    1.9
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Education                                          10.3    3.7
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                          18.5    5.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                             17.5   11.9
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                            6.0    1.0
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                           21.0                    5.6
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                  8.5    3.1
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                10.2    5.3
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                  10.0    6.9
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                9.0                    2.4
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                              10.0    6.9
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.0                    3.8
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    2.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                6.0    4.9
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                             18.0   12.9
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Education                                          11.0    9.4
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                     30.0             22.2
1307--TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.0                    5.6
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                           9.0    8.8
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                  8.0    2.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.0                   14.7
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5             8.5
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                         8.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                          7.2    6.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                          12.0   12.0
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                           15.0   14.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   24.8
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                   27.5   27.5
802-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Hlandling                                  14.0   14.0
803-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                      12.0   12.0
1607-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.0                   25.0
833-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                   20.0   20.0
Total                                                     210.7  41.5   352.3  303.4
of which has been repaid                                     4.6     -      6.9
Total now outstanding                                     206.1  41.5   345.4
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          206.1  41.5   345.4
Total undisbursed                                          136.2  30.7   136.6  303.4
17   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.                            4.8   llin
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.  mllOn.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Loan                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose             Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                            93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC           Harbours              35.0               1.2
674-EA  1970    EARC           Railways             42.4                3.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC           Harbours              26.5               1.1
914-EA  1973    EAPTC          Telecommunications  32.5                 5.6
1204-EA  1976    EADB           Development Finance 15.0                 8.3
Total                                           244.8               19.3
of which has been repaid                      46.2
Total now outstanding                           198.6
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       198.6
Total undisbursed                                19.3               19.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of October 31, 1978)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than anti-
cipated. In line with the 1976 survey, additional planting has been carried
out and effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in
the Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry
techniques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are
now being implemented.. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favor-
able turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve.
The closing date may require a further postponement to allow sufficient time
for completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major pro-
blems remain and require continued attention. The closing date of the Credit
may have to be postponed by 12 months in order to complete the ranch develop-
ment program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the crop
technical packages to give economic responses, the project must now be con-
sidered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather than
an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff has been more vigorously
pursued since the Project Implementation Reviews began. The major project
problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the shortage of extension
staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the delay in producing accounts.
The project will continue to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery
has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its man-
agement capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's con-
sultants have effectively supervised construction and the project includes
provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the development
of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation and disbursements remain well behind
appraisal estimates. During the past six months, progress has been slow
due to continued weak management at both the regional and district levels,
the loss of significant numbers of trained agricultural and cooperatives
staff as a result of their appointment as Village Managers, and the out-
break of cholera in two of the region's three districts. To allow for
a period of consolidation of project management, only four additional



27
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
villages are to be included in the investment program for the next fiscal
year, bringing the total number of project villages to 61. A Joint-Mid-
term Evaluation of the project was conducted in late October 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production and the opera-
tions of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses (mainly
becaused Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions
vacated by expatriates). After heavy losses in 1977, mostly due to difficul-
ties in starting operations of the new factory, KSC is expected to break-
even. Phase III of the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed
by March 1979 The Sugar Development Corporation has requested Finance to
consider KSC's proposals as to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the
terms of the Government loans; a decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mention. All formalities with regard to the establishment of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tanganyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear. Of the four Ujamaa villages identified for
investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program two have been selected and
their investment plans have been prepared. It is expected that active fishing
operations in all cases should begin before the end of 1978.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. The project's exten-
sion services are seriously understaffed, and the deficiencies of extension
services and the Government's continued indecision on its reorganization are



- 2-8 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
constraints effecting project implementation. Farmers' contributions to the
financing of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize
potential about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner,
but in the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A
recent decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has
doubled the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties
experienced result from limited cooperation between the central ministry
responsible for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of
local implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on
monoculture of maize. A joint RMEA/ Headquarters mission recently reviewed
the above difficulties and its recommendations have been largely endorsed by
the Government.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be success-
fully implemented and the milk processing expansion is almost completed. The
loan security/occupancy rights problems have been resolved for most farms. A
shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya
are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component proceeds slowly and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank is actively investigation alternative means of assist-
ing village milk production and consumption. The foot and mouth disease
control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, project implementa-
tion has improved considerably and is now more or less on schedule. The
nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. Progress on fire protection, road construction and
buildings is satisfactory. All posts are now filled and management has
been reinforced. There are no serious procurement nor disbursement prob-
lems, although both are still slightly behind schedule.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 20-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the 1978/79
season to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Morogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional respon-
sibilities of these entities. The study of TAT's financial system will
commence as soon as the cholera quarantine is relaxed and TAT have been
requested to employ a Systems Accountant without further delay. TTPC's
accounts for 1976/77 have been audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Good progress has been made in project implementation, although
overall implementation is somewhat behind schedule, largely as a result of
delays in the delivery of vehicles and equipment. Key staff of the Project
Secretariat has been in post since early 1978, and the Secretariat is func-
tioning well. The agricultural component is, however, facing serious prob-
lems. The 1977/78 program of village trials (which are indended to validate
the Project's technical packages prior to dissemination to farmers) was
a failure as a result of lack of transport and poor coordination between
regional and district-level staff. The 1978/79 trials programs faces problems
as a result of a shortage of staff to assist in the conduct of these trials
following the appointment of over 50 percent of the region's trained agricul-
tural extension staff as Village Managers.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development
Project; US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness - October 2, 1978; Closing Date -
December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Closing Date - April 30, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



-30 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 16
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
91%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979. Total project cost is now
estimated at about TSh 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the
appraisal estimate of TSh 104 million. The Government do not foresee any
financial problem in the required additional funds. Three Community Educa-
tion Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village devel-
opment, education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational
Training Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical
assistance and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching
funds disbursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship com-
ponent of the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvements. Housing construction is in line with VMT training
which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment of over
500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are also dealys in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy expects for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ US$6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only US$1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November_20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
1/   The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for IJS$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 16
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on all
project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is nearing
completion. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have been ten-
dered; the rest of the community facilities in the project are to be tendered
soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the Tanzania Housing
Bank is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is estimated (at
current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 3, 1978. Progress on imple-
mentation is satisfactory for the residential components. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. The
Consultants' report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved
by the Government in January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost
recovery proposed in the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as a
year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delay
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signifi-
cantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project re-
port for duty.



33
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. The main civil contractor has not yet completed its transport-
ation; therefore, principal civil construction works at Mtera is five months
behind schedule. Current estimated project cost is US$117 million compared
to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost overrun of 31%. The foreign
exchange gap in IBRD/SIDA-financed portion is about US$14.1 million. SIDA
has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its allocation to cover
its proportion of the cost overruns (about US$6 million). At present, Bank
has no plans to make any additional contruction to bridge the gap. By early
1979, the issue should be reviewed and arrangements made for the necessary
funds.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation of
funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under implemen-
tation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing date has
been postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable. There has
been a deterioration in the operating performance of the existing Mwanza
plant as well as some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 16
(TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to
institute an immediate action program to improve the operating performance of
existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
With the arrival of a new project team leader from TATA in February
1978, the project is now expected to be implemented smoothly. Total commit-
ments as of May 31, 1978 was US$2.1 million of which US$1.7 million, US$0.3
million and US$0.1 million were for consultancy services, training and project
unit services, respectively. The procedures for processing proposals are
being streamlined and it is expected that the pace of commitments and dis-
bursements will be increased as a result.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of some
initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of procurement.
Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual components
of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still scheduled for
July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher than those
contained in the Appraisal Report.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3,
1978: Closing Date - June 30, 1981
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.



35
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of
the minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely
the improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
in Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerabley. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning
completely independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania
Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected
to be established soon. Management of Ports in both countries is compe-
tent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 million of Loan 865-
EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                             2.0



36
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since the
amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified
under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978 (referred to in a
report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-R77-312), were are
continuing disbursements.
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system con-
struction have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing
and other problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters.
Funds disbursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and associated multi-
plex equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the countries con-
cerned is given below:



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
As of October 31, 1978
Fiscal Year            Obligor             Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing   3.96    0.70          4.66
1978             Highland Soap              Soap Manufacture  1.37    0.38       1.75
Total gross commitments                     5.33    1.08      6.41
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   3.96    0.70       4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           1.37    0.38      1.75
Total Undisbursed                           1.37    0.38      1.75



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 6 months
(b) Preparation by: Government with assistance from UNESCO and
the Association
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:  July 1977
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:  April 1978
(e) Negotiations: November 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(1) The Government would secure the necessary technical
assistance for the Instructor Training Center and the
Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy (paras 40 and 42).
(2) By July 1, 1979 the Government would furnish to the
Association for comment the report of the international
panel of experts on accounting training; the Borrower
shall thereafter adopt and implement a plan of action
adequate to ensure the efficient training of accountants
in Tanzania; adoption of this plan would be a condition
of disbursement on the construction of the DSA (para. 43);
(3) Terms of reference for MANTEP instructor training
to be provided at the East African Management Institute,
and terms of reference for a technical assistance specialist
to assist with the MANTEP program would be submitted to IDA
for comment by December 31, 1979. The specialist would be
appointed by March 31, 1980 with qualifications and on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 44).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(4) Suitable sites would be provided for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the project and
that, as necessary, suitably qualified consultants for
architectural and engineering services would be appointed
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
(para 47).
(5) The Project Unit would be adequately staffed throughout the
project implementation period, and that adequate training
programs would be provided for local staff (para 48).
(6) Staffing of the Project Unit would include a representative
of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, and that an
implementation plan clearly defining tasks, lines of
reporting and decision making, financing, and local staff
training would be prepared in consultation with IDA by June
1, 1979 (para 49).
(7) Terms of reference for monitoring and evaluation activities
would be submitted to the Association for comment by
December 31, 1979 (para 50).
(8) Staff development plans for the Instructor Training
Center, the Dar es Salaam of Accountancy and the
MANTEP program to be submitted to IDA for comment
by December 31, 1979 (para 58).



