Document of                 F        xr
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2141-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
November 23, 1978
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1978)
US$1        =  T. Shs. 8.00
T. Shs. 1 = US$0.125
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of T. Shs. 9.66 to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling Exchange rate is there-
fore subject to change on a day-to-day basis.
Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00
to T. Shs. 8.00, which is close to the recent
average exchange rate.)
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)       2  =  3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m ) = 10.76 Square Feet
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN TANZANIAN DEVELOPMENT ....      .......  1
Education Policy and Strategy .....       ......................  1
Education Structure and Management ......................        2
Primary Education      .......................................   3
Secondary Education ......     .........................         4
Post Secondary Education ................................        5
Financing and Cost of Education .....     ..................     7
II.   MEETING MANPOWER NEEDS:  TOWARD SKILL SELF-SUFFICIENCY ..        8
Basis of Current Manpower Planning ......................        8
Projected Manpower Needs ................................        9
Projected Manpower Supply and Skill Shortages ..........   .    10
III.   BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN THE SECTOR        11
Past Experience and Lessons Learned ..................   ...   11
Lending Strategy . .................... .  ................   13
Priority Areas for Lending ............. ..     ...............   13
IV.   THE PROJECT        .............................................    15
Objectives        ..............................................    16
Project Items         ..........................................    17
Vocational and Technical Education ................   ...    17
Management and Accountancy Training ................   ...   18
Project Related Studies ......      .........................   20
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ..................   ...   20
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Tanzania
in April 1978 and included Mr. N. Colletta (general educator), Mr. R. Byron
(technical educator), Mr. M. Giuseppi (architect), Mr. P. Jones (economist) of
the Bank and Mr. R. Loken (management and business education specialist,
consultant). The project was further reviewed in the field by Mr. Giuseppi in
July 1978 and Mr. Colletta in November 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..............................    21
Project Cost ................................. ........... ..*.*.....   21
Customs Duties and Taxes ..... ....*............*.*.....   23
Contingency Allowances .... ......................   .......   24
Foreign Exchange Component ............. .................   24
Financial Plan ............................................ O#.......   24
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ....   25
Implementation       ..........................................   25
Architectural/Engineering Services ......................   26
Sites ................................................... 0......   26
Building Industry .......................................   26
Procurement and Disbursement ............... .............   26
VII.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................   27
Consolidation and Qualitative Improvement ...............    28
Access  and  Equity  .....     ..................................  .  28
Critical Skills Development .............................   28
Institution Building ................ ..  ..................   28
Risks  ..............................................................  29
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................   29
ANNEX 1  TABLES AND CHARTS
Table  1 Past and Projected Enrollments in Public and Private
Schools, 1967-1990.
Table  2 Past and Projected Government Recurrent Expenditure on
Education and Training.
Table  3 Expenditures on Education and Training in Relation to
Total Government Expenditures.
Table  4 Additional Manpower Requirements by Skill Category
1975-1990.
Table  5 Additional Requirements of Accountancy Skills and
Craftsmen of Skill Category C, 1975-1990.
Table  6 Meeting Manpower Requirements for the Modern Sector.
Table  7 Supply/Demand--Vocational Instructors and Industrial
Trainers.
Table  8 Accountancy Skills:  Expected Annual Outputs by Year
and by Institution.
Table  9 Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Costs.
Table 10 Comparative Education Indicators.
Table 11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement.
Chart 1  Structure of Education, 1978.
Chart 2  Educational Pyramid.
Chart 3  Implementation Schedule.
ANNEX 2  SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 3  KEY INDICATORS FOR SUPERVISION
MAP IBRD 13657R



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
BASIC DATA
(excluding Zanzibar)
Population (est.) (1976)                                           15.1 million
Population growth rate (1970-75)                                   2.7% p.a.
Wage and salary employment (1976)                                  457,000
Per Capita Income (1977)                                           US$200 equivalent
Education Enrollments
Public Schools
Primary education (1978) (Standards 1-7)
- enrollment                                                  2,970,000
- ratio of enrolled to age group (7-13 yrs)                  93.1%
Lower secondary education (1977) (Forms 1-4)
- enrollment                                                 38,408
- ratio of enrolled to age group (14-17 yrs)                 2.7%
Upper secondary education (1977) (Forms 5-6)
- enrollment                                                 3,747
- ratio of enrolled to age group (18-19 yrs)                 0.6%
University of Dar es Salaam
- enrollment (1976)                                          2,190
Private Schools
Ratio of private primary enrollment (1978) to public         1.0%
primary enrollment
Ratio of private secondary enrollment (1977) to public   45.6%
secondary enrollment
Education Expenditures
Government expenditure on education as percentage
of total Government expenditure (1976/77)
Capital                                                 5.2%
Recurrent                                              12.2%
Total                                                  17.4%
as a percentage of GDP                                  6.6%






GLOSSARY
BER       Basic Economic Report.
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency.
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency.
DSA       Dar-es-Salaam School of Accountancy, established in 1973, a middle
level accountancy training institute under the Ministry of
Finance and Planning.
ESR       Education for Self-Reliance.
IDM       Institute of Development Management, established in 1972, a high
level management and accountancy training institute under the
Ministry of Manpower Development.
IFM       Institute of Finance Management, established in 1972, a high level
finance training institute under the Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
ITC       Instructor Training Center, a proposed institution under the NVTP
to train vocational instructors for the NVTP's Vocational Training
Centers, among other institutions.
MANTEP    Management Training for Education Personnel, a proposed national
program of in-service training under the Ministry of National
Education for education officers and other administrative personnel.
MOE       Ministry of National Education.
NORAD     Norwegian Agency for International Development.
NVTD      National Vocational Training Division, a division of the Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare responsible for administering the
National Vocational Training Program.
NVTP      National Vocational Training Program, established in 1966 under the
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, a program responsible for
the provision of training institutions to meet the demand for
skilled workers and for development of mechanisms for regulating
and upgrading the quality of these workers.
PPS       Project Planning Section, the operational body established within
the Ministry of National Education, responsible for the implementa-
tion and monitoring of education projects including those carried
out under IDA credits.
PPTS      Post Primary Technical Sections (approximately 275), workshop
facilities often located near to primary schools and providing two-
year practical programs to prepare primary school leavers for
employment.
SIDA      Swedish International Development Authority.
UPE       Universal Primary Education.
USAID     United States Agency for International Development.
VTC       Vocational Training Center, a training institution under the Min-
istry of Labor and Social Welfare NVTP/NVTD offering a four-year
skill training course; one-year resident instruction and three
years combination of sandwich courses and on-the-job training.






UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN TANZANIAN DEVELOPMENT
Education Policy and Strategy
1.01      Since Independence (1961) Tanzania has turned to education with an
increasing conviction that human resource development forms an integral part
of national development. As may be seen in a brief review of the country's
three five-year plans, education has evolved not merely to provide skills for
the modern sector but also to mould the economic and political institutions of
the entire nation.
1.02      Tanzania's First Five-Year Development Plan (1964-69) focused on
rapid economic growth. It gave priority to self-sufficiency in skilled
manpower by 1980 and called for a comprehensive education system for adults
and children as soon as financially possible. This conventional development
strategy swiftly changed when by the end of the First Plan period the Arusha
Declaration adopted a socialist ideology and a development strategy based on
self-reliance. Following the Arusha Declaration, in 1967 President Nyerere
sharply criticized elitism, isolation from rural areas, and lack of practical
experience in formal education and laid down the guidelines for reform in his
policy of Education for Self-Reliance (ESR). Priorities shifted to favor
basic education for the entire population. Education content was to be aimed
at greater productivity in the rural environment where approximately 90% of
the Tanzanian people live. To this end, farming and practical subjects were
introduced in schools so as to become revenue producing and better integrated
with the community.
1.03      The Arusha Declaration and ESR supplied the conceptual foundations
for the education aspects of the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74). Originally,
Universal Primary Education (UPE) was to be achieved by 1989. 1/ The Govern-
ment and local organizations were required to develop adult and nonformal
education programs. In this context, the primary school was to become a
"community center," a focal point for meeting the educational needs of the
whole community, rather than a detached institution to be used solely for the
education of children. In addition, a national literacy program was launched
to eradicate illiteracy. By the end of 1975, cumulative enrollments in
literacy classes had reached 5.2 million or nearly 90% of the estimated
number of adult illiterates. Despite this focus on UPE and mass-oriented
education, previous manpower goals were not abandoned. Secondary education
was to be expanded as justified by manpower requirements, and the target of
reaching self-sufficiency in skilled manpower by 1980 was retained.
1/   The UPE objective (para 1.04) was advanced and modified to enroll by
November 1977, 100% of those children who were between the ages of 7
and 12 in November 1975, plus all children reaching the age of 7 after
1975.



- 2 -
1.04      The Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) 1/ Party Executive
Committee met in Musoma in late 1974 to review the successes and failures
of Tanzania's education system. The resulting Musoma Resolution recom-
mended that UPE be achieved by November 1977. It also recommended that
university candidates engage in two years of work experience and receive
satisfactory evaluation from both their employer and the TANU Party before
continuing to higher education. Other recommendations stressed existing
educational policies of diversified secondary education, practical skills,
and self-reliance activities.
1.05      The Third Five-Year Plan (1975-80) indicates that the basic direc-
tion in education for the current planning period remains similar to that
charted by ESR and the Musoma Resolution. The stated goals of the Plan are:
(i) to enable every child of school age to have a place in a primary
school by November 1977;
(ii) to change the trend of secondary and teacher education to: (a)
place more emphasis on technical and commercial subjects so that education
will be more related to the work the student will do after completion; (b)
introduce teacher training into secondary schools in order to enable all
students who attend these schools to teach in primary schools as needed; and
(c) add additional places for girls in secondary schools;
(iii) to enable each Tanzanian to read and write and functionally use
this knowledge in his daily life; and
(iv) to continue the effort to achieve the goal of self-sufficiency
in qualified and competent local manpower by 1980.
Education Structure and Management
1.06      The structure of the formal education system (Annex 1, Chart 1)
consists of primary education (Standards 1-7), lower secondary education
(Forms 1-4) followed by a two-year pre-university course (Forms 5 - 6),
and tertiary education provided by the University of Dar-es-Salaam. This
basic structure is supplemented by a range of formal and nonformal specialized
training programs under a variety of Ministries; e.g., Post Primary Technical
Sections (2 years), Folk Development Colleges (3 to 9 months), Vocational
Training Centers (1 year and apprenticeship), Technical Colleges (3 years),
Commercial Colleges (2 years), and Accountancy-Management Institutes (1-2
years), among others (para. 1.14).
1.07      Management of the formal education system is exercised by several
Ministries and the Regions. For instance, the Ministry of National Education
(MOE) is responsible for operation of secondary schools, colleges of national
1/   TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar polit-
ical party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February, 1977. The new party
is now called Chama-Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 3 -
education and technical colleges. The Ministry of Finance and Planning is
responsible for the recurrent budget and planning. The Ministry of Manpower
Development is responsible for manpower development and allocation within the
civil service and parastatals. The Regional Administrations are responsible
for primary education.
1.08      Administration at various levels, e.g., National, Regional, District,
Divisional and Ward-Village, of the formal education system is decentralized in
accordance with the Decentralization of Government Administration Act, No. 27
of 1972. The key official in the education administrative structure is the
Regional Education Officer. He is responsible administratively to the Regional
Development Director and professionally to the MOE. He is assisted at the
Regional level by education officers for primary school inspection, adult
education, and supplies and logistics services.  At the District level there
is a similar structure with a District Education Officer administratively
responsible to the District Development Director and professionally to the
Regional Education Officer.  He is also assisted at the District level by
education officers for primary school inspection, adult education and supplies
and logistics services. At the level above the village schools and adult
education activities, there is a Divisional Education Officer responsible for
both primary and adult education. Each primary school has a Head Teacher and
each ward (cluster of about five villages) has an Adult Education Officer.
Secondary and teacher education are administered directly by the MOE which
appoints Heads or Principals after consultation with the Regional Commissioner
through the Regional Education Officer. Tanzania has no established, regular
program for the training of various levels of education management personnel
mentioned above. Courses are periodically held for District Education Officers
(two months duration), Supplies and Logistics Officers (two months), Primary
School Inspectors (three months), and Divisional Education Officers (seminar
basis). Only some of the Heads of secondary schools or Principals of colleges
of National Education have received any administrative or managerial training.
There-has been no training of primary school Head Teachers in this aspect of
their work.
Primary Education
1.09      Most outstanding in the education sector is the bold, national
effort to attain UPE. The increases in enrollments (Annex 1, Table 1 and
Chart 2) bear witness to a dramatic achievement: Standard 1 enrollments grew
from 231,000 in 1974 to 540,000 in 1977 and to 950,000 in 1978 so that about
90% of the UPE Standard 1 target population had been enrolled by 1978. Total
enrollments in 1978 reached 2,970,000. As a ratio of the population age 7
to 14, enrollments, including overaged students, amounted to 93%.  Of total
enrollments only about 20,000 were those of private schools. Advancing the
goal of UPE from 1989 to 1977 led planners into greater experimentation with
lower standard physical school plants. Moreover, since the existing stock of
trained teachers was inadequate for this new load, various kinds of experi-
ments in recruiting and training teachers, e.g., distance teaching, were
tried. Emphasis was placed on self-reliance activities, such as school
gardens and construction of teacher housing, to keep the costs of the UPE
program at an affordable level.



- 4 -
1.10      Parallel to the UPE program the MOE established a system of Post
Primary Technical Sections (PPTS) intended to provide occupational preparation
for the growing number of primary school leavers who have little prospect of
proceeding to the next level of education, and who have inadequate preparation
for entry in the labor market.. The PPTS reflect the high priority given to
the teaching of practical skills.  Also, they reflect action taken toward
rural development since graduates of the PPTS are expected to apply their
skills in the rural villages.  The first PPTS were established in 1975.  By
1982 planned enrollments in the two year program are expected to reach 10,000
in some 275 schools and ultimately about 17,000 in 340 schools by 1985.
Secondary Education
1.11      In 1977, lower secondary school enrollments (Forms 1 - 4) amounted
to 56,700 or 4% of the 14 to 17 year age group of mainland Tanzania. Public
schools accounted for 70% of these enrollments. Despite the increasing pres-
sure for public secondary school places, in part generated by the growth of
primary schools, Government policy held firm the increase in public secondary
Form 1 enrollments (Annex 1, Table 1) to the planned 3% per year during the
Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74) as compared to a 7% per year increase during
the First Five-Year Plan (1964-69). Since 1974, public secondary schools
have expanded at an even slower rate. However, this slow growth in public
schools has been somewhat off-set by the increase in private school Form 1
enrollments. For example, from 1975 to 1976 Form 1 private school enroll-
ments grew at almost 13%, and total enrollments (Forms 1-4) grew at 16%.
1.12      Progress has been made in reforming secondary school curricula.
Curricula has been redirected toward the concept of self-reliance through the
addition of agriculture, crafts, commerce, and home economics, the integration
of the classroom and the community, and the conversion of syllabi into "ter-
minal" courses preparing graduates for their working careers. In 1976 there
were 141 secondary schools, 81 were public and 60 were private. For public
schools the agriculture syllabus was taught in 39 schools, commercial syllabus
in 27 schools, technical syllabus in 4 schools, and home economics syllabus in
3 schools. In the four secondary technical schools there are 2,550 students
who follow a program of 60% practice and 40% theory in three streams: elemen-
tary civil engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering.
Over the current Five-Year Plan the Government intends to increase the system
of technical secondary schools with six additional schools while promoting
the participation of women by adding hostels.
1.13      Vocational training at the secondary level is undertaken by
various entities serving approximately 4,500 students. The National Voca-
tional Training Division (NVTD) of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
has administered the National Vocational Training Program (NVTP) since its
establishment in 1966 with UNDP/ILO assistance. The core training insti-
tutions of the NVTP are the three Vocational Training Centers (VTC) which
admit candidates having Standard 7 minimum educational qualifications. The
four-year program consists of an eight-month full-time course followed by



three month's sandwich courses in each of three years of subsequent employ-
ment. Similar programs in vocational training are undertaken by the Tanganyika
African Parents Association (TAPA) 1/ and the Mission Trade Schools with about
20 and 40 schools respectively. Roughly 30%, 1,300 students, of the total
training activity is undertaken in the Government run VTCs. Presently the
source of qualified vocational instructors has been the Chang'ombe Instructor
Training Unit with an output of approximately 40 instructors per annum. This
output is insufficient to meet the demand for competent vocational instructors.
Many vocational programs are understaffed and what staff exists is in need of
upgrading.
Post Secondary Education
1.14      After completing Form 4, students who continue their education may
attend upper secondary school for two years and may proceed to university
study. Alternatively, they may enroll in one of the many post Form 4 colleges
and institutes offering specialized training. Colleges and institutes offer
over three times more opportunities for further studies than upper secondary
schools: in 1976 of some 12,500 Form 4 leavers, nearly 2,000 entered Form 5
while approximately 6,500 entered other training. Excluding adult education
centers, in 1976 there were approximately 120 colleges and institutes in
Tanzania operated or supported by the Government with a total enrollment
capacity of about 24,000 students, or an average of 200 students per institu-
tion. The Ministry of Health operates 41 schools; the MOE 28 schools; the
Ministry of Agriculture 14 schools; The Prime Minister's Office nine schools,
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism nine schools, the Ministry of
Finance and Planning three schools, etc.
1.15      In management, accountancy and commercial training, (areas relevant
to the proposed sixth education project, paras. 4.09-4.11), there are about
nine institutions responding to very specialized needs of certain Ministries
(e.g., estate management and housing management for the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Urban Development; wildlife management and hotel management for
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, etc.). More general training
in management, accountancy and commerce is provided principally by eight
institutions focusing on broad sectors of the Tanzanian economy. At the
highest level, aside from the University of Dar-es-Salaam offering a bachelor's
degree in business administration, there is the Institute of Development
Management (IDM) offering five types of inservice diploma courses for careers
in Government. The IDM currently has about 1,000 students. The Institute of
1/   The Organization was founded in 1955 as African Parents Association at
the Regional and District level but was officially registered in 1957
as Tanganyika African Parents Association (TAPA) at the National level.
The aim of TAPA is to assist the Government by providing primary, tech-
nical, and secondary education in places where the Government has not yet
been able to provide these facilities. To be able to accomplish this
role TAPA mobilizes parents to build schools in their respective areas
on a self-help basis.



- 6 -
Finance Management (IFM) offers finance-oriented diploma courses for candidates
sponsored by public sector employers such as Ministries and Departments, and
parastatal organizations.   Enrollments are about 550.  Moshi Cooperative
College and its six branches offer diploma courses for the staff of Ujamaa
(Swahili for "family") villages, Cooperative Societies and the Ujamaa and
Cooperative Development Division of the Prime Minister's Office. About 300
are enrolled. The Nyegezi Social Training Center, under the Tanzanian
Episcopal Conference, provides courses in accountancy, journalism, and rural
development with an enrollment of about 170. The output in accountancy at
the Certified Public Accountant (professional) level in these institutions
will be about 40 per year (Annex 1, Table 8).
1.16      At the middle and lower level of management, accountancy and
commercial training, there is the Dar-es-Salaam College of Business Adminis-
tration with a two-year diploma course in business administration with 300
enrolled and the Shinyanga Commercial Institute with 240 enrolled in post
Form 4 courses. In accountancy at the middle (sub-professional) and lower
(technician) levels,l/ the principal institution is the Dar-es-Salaam School
of Accountancy, with-pre-service and in-service training in accounting,
auditing and stores management for the civil service. Including enrollments
at its four regional branches, there are about 800 students. Most of the
institutions mentioned earlier (para 1.15) also offer accountancy training at
the sub-professional or technician levels. In 1975 the output for employment
of all institutions for sub-professional level accountancy training was about
100 per year and for technician level accountancy training was also about 100
per year (Annex 1, Table 8).
1.17      In July 1970, the three constitutent colleges of the University of
East Africa became the three separate Universities of Makerere in Uganda,
Nairobi in Kenya and Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania. The University of Dar-es-
Salaam comprises Faculties of Arts, Law, Medicine, Engineering and Science
in Dar-es-Salaam itself and a Faculty of Agriculture at Morogoro some 120
miles away. The University also has a Department of Education for the pre-
service training of graduate secondary school teachers and an Institute of
Education which gives in-service courses and develops curricula. Both de-
gree and diploma courses are offered; in 1976/77 the total enrollments were
about 2,200. In addition, nearly 140 Tanzanian students were enrolled in
degree or diploma courses in Makerere and Nairobi and 816 in post secondary
1/   Job Classification by Level -- Technicians:  those persons who are able
to work independently as bookkeepers, maintaining complete sets of books
for small enterprises, cooperatives, Ujamaa villages, etc., doing simple
business calculations, correspondence, simple stock and stores admini-
stration. Sub-professional level: eligible for registration as approved
accountants. The qualified persons will be able to work as accountants
for small and medium sized industries, Government organizations or
as assistant auditors. They will have to be able to solve questions
arising in the field of cost accounting, taxation, business calculation,
stores administration and management of the medium sized organizations.
Professional level: those persons who are able to work as auditors and
senior professional accountants and finance officers of large business
and government organizations. They will be able to appraise projects,
to make budgets and to organize an administration in such a way, that it
provides management with all relevant data necessary for decision making.



- 7 -
courses overseas. The Government intends to stabilize the growth of univer-
sity education over the next development plan opting for investment in basic
education and critical technical skills development.
Financing and Cost of Education
1.18      Total public expenditure on education in 1976/77, including foreign
assistance, reached T.Shs. 1,278.7 million (US$154 million equivalent), or
about 6.6% of GDP (Annex 1, Table 3). The growth of total Government expend-
itures and education expenditures is greater than growth in GDP. Within Gov-
ernment expenditures, education has been given very high priority, resisting
the larger fluctuations in total Government expenditures.
1.19      Foreign assistance for education was received from a variety of
donor agencies. For 1977/78 these services are expected to contribute about
US$17.2 million equivalent. Primary and adult education has received major
attention from Sweden (SIDA) and Finland. Diversification of secondary
schools has progressed notably. Norway (NORAD) and Cuba have financed agri-
cultural secondary schools, and Denmark (DANIDA), Sweden (SIDA), Canada
(CIDA), the Federal Republic of Germany and the Swiss Foundation for Technical
Assistance have helped develop technical education. DANIDA has been active in
teacher training, and NORAD, CIDA and the Federal Republic of Germany have
promoted higher education with emphasis on the critical skill areas of en-
gineering, accountancy and management. Technical assistance, fellowships
and other post secondary education support has come largely from the United
Kingdom (British Council), CIDA, DANIDA and USAID.
1.20      The annual capital expenditure on education varied from about 5%
to about 12% of total Government capital expenditures during 1972-76. During
the 1976/77 period, the amount spent on education was T.Shs. 382.2 million.
Over the same period all Government capital expenditures including education
rose faster than the total Government budget. The trend in educational capi-
tal expenditures shows the growing importance of primary compared to secondary
educational investments, and the increase in teacher training facilities.
1.21      In 1976/77 recurrent expenditures in education and training amounted
to T.Shs. 896.5 million (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3), or about 21% of total Gov-
ernment recurrent expenditures. The MOE budget (including regional education
expenditures) amounted to T.Shs. 771 million. In contrast to capital expend-
itures on education which have grown faster than GDP, recurrent expenditures
for education have grown at about the same annual rate as the economy and
total Government recurrent expenditures. Over the period 1972-76 Government
recurrent expenditures grew at an annual nominal rate of 18.6%, recurrent
expenditures for all education and training grew at 17.7% and recurrent ex-
penditures for the Ministry of National Education (including regional expend-
itures) grew at 18.6%.
1.22      Prior to 1977/78, recurrent expenditure in education and training
amounted to about 20% of total Government recurrent expenditures. According
to official estimates, in Tanzanian fiscal year 1977/78 this expenditure may
rise to 28%. The growth in relative importance will be due to rapid growth



-8-
in primary education, teacher training (much of which relates to primary edu-
cation), and adult education (Annex 1, Table 2). Programs which will lose
relative importance will be secondary and higher education.
1.23      The relative importance of recurrent expenditures for education
in the future will depend primarily on economic growth, changes in the unit
costs of primary education, total enrollments in the UPE program, and the
amount of adult education provided. Because of the central importance of the
UPE program on total recurrent expenditures on education, the Bank's 1977
"Basic Economic Report" (BER) for Tanzania analyzed the fiscal implications
of UPE. The BER scenario of moderate economic growth (4% per annum) and
rising unit costs of UPE (3% per annum) leads to recurrent expenditures for
education amounting to 30% of total Government recurrent expenditures and 7%
of GDP by fiscal year 1982/83.  In this case, Tanzania would face pressures
to lower goals in other education programs in order to provide resources for
the UPE program.
1.24      Since the time of the BER analysis of the fiscal implications of
UPE (March 1976), primary enrollments have grown by about 50% (from 1,950,000
in 1976 to 2,970,000 in 1978; see Annex 1, Table 1) while unit costs of pri-
mary education have not increased in real terms; also, while economic perfor-
mance has been poor in the mid 1970's, prospects of economic growth into
the 1980's have improved. Real economic growth has been projected at about
6 percent per year. If these trends were to continue, as seems likely, by
Tanzanian fiscal year 1982/83 recurrent expenditures for education would
amount to 24.8% of total Government recurrent expenditures and 5.8% of GDP
(Annex 1, Table 2). In this case the relative importance of education ex-
penditures would remain at approximately the current level and would be in
line with other countries of the region at a similar level of development.
Thus, the recent developments in Tanzania suggest that UPE can be implemented
while allowing for considerable progress in other education programs.
II. MEETING MANPOWER NEEDS: TOWARD SKILL SELF-SUFFICIENCY
2.01      At the center of its manpower strategy, Tanzania has established
the Ministry of Manpower Development with the responsibility of monitoring
and allocating high and middle level skill production (para. 1.07). The
Ministry aims at complying with the policy of producing only those skills
necessary for economic growth and the achievement of self-sufficiency in
skilled manpower by 1980 (para. 1.05).
Basis of Current Manpower Planning
2.02      Tanzania has carried out manpower planning activities since
Independence. Past manpower surveys were undertaken in 1962, 1964, 1968
and 1974. The first survey represented a post Independence manpower inventory
and the subsequent three surveys established the basic manpower data for the
three Five-Year Development Plans (1964-1969, 1969-1974, and 1975-1980). In
recent years changes in coverage and definition have been significant and have
led to problems of comparability and interpretation.



- 9 -
2.03      Originally the Third Five-Year Plan (1975-80) anticipated optimistic
rates of economic growth. In real terms, the GDP was to grow at an annual
rate of 6.8% with rapid growth of manufacturing (9.3%), utilities (10.0%),
and mining (9.3%). The public administration sector was to keep pace with
real economic growth at 6% per annum. In other sectors growth was expected
to be moderately strong. Employment of wage and salary labor was expected
to grow at 5.2% reflecting increases in labor productivity. This too was
optimistic given the actual decline in labor productivity during the Second
Five-Year Plan.
2.04      Because of a drought induced recession during 1974-75, the Third
Five-Year Plan (originally 1974-79) was postponed for one year to be imple-
mented in 1975-80. Growth assumptions of the new economic plan were adjusted
downward from an overall 6.8% to 6.0%; yet there was virtually no change in
the manpower plan. Meanwhile the economy had set out on a course that would
imply a growing divergence between targets and actual performance. Real
economic growth had been well below expectations, averaging 3.9% annually
during 1972-76, and had been outpaced by the public administration sector
whose average growth was 12% compared to the new target of 5.6%. More re-
cently, 1974-76, the public administration sector annual growth rate has
exceeded 13% per year. Coupled with this very rapid expansion of the public
administration sector, certain other sectors, notably mining, agriculture and
construction, had clearly begun to stagnate or even diminish in real terms.
Government efforts in 1975 to achieve greater efficiencies in labor produc-
tivity showed no marked effects in productive sectors. In public administra-
tion where employment was cut back, total wages and salaries were unaffected
indicating that few if any reductions took place at the middle and higher
levels.
Projected Manpower Needs
2.05      In light of these important new developments, the Bank Group staff
worked out revised projections of manpower requirements. The revision incor-
porated more realistic sectoral growth rates and labor productivity assump-
tions, but the skill mix assumed in the Five-Year Plan was left unchanged.
In the resulting scenario, even with lower initial GDP growth, e.g., an
average annual growth rate of 5.3% over 1975-80 rising to 6% from 1980 on-
ward, and a delay in full success of labor productivity gains, manpower
requirements rose well beyond levels targeted in the Third Five-Year Plan
(Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5). The demand for university level professionals
(category A) rose from 8,276 to 10,380 in the new estimation. 1/ The demand
1/   The definitions of categories as applied in the Manpower Plan are:
A  -  Jobs normally requiring a university degree.
B  -  Jobs which normally require from one to three years formal post
secondary (Form 4) education/training.
C -  Jobs which normally require a secondary school education for
standard performance of the full array of tasks involved in the
occupation. This category includes skilled office workers and
skilled manual workers in the "modern crafts."



- 10 -
for sub-professionals, requiring upper secondary education (category B skills)
rose from 28,556 to 50,430. Finally, the demand for craftsmen and technicians
(category C skills), requiring secondary education at the Form 4 level or its
equivalent, rose from 58,892 to 74,100. The essential determining factor of
this outcome of higher manpower requirements is the public administration
sector which was assumed to continue its 1972-76 trend of 12% annual growth
until 1980. After 1980 this sector was assumed to grow at 5.3% per year.
The skill intake per unit employment of this sector is 2.8 times higher in
professional manpower and 4.9 times higher in sub-professional manpower than
any other sector. The revised manpower estimates were extended to 1990.
During 1980-90 efficiency and growth were assumed to be in line with the
current plan target. Thus yearly manpower requirements for 1980-90 were
actually below the 1975-80 levels. Also, the 1975-90 average manpower re-
quirements were considerably below the average yearly requirements of the
1975-80 period (Annex 1, Table 6).
Projected Manpower Supply and Skill Shortages
2.06      For the period 1975-1990 it is estimated that manpower supplies are
essentially in balance with future manpower requirements. However, this
balance may be easily perturbed by shifts in Government hiring. Also, the
balance exists only in a global sense since within the larger skill categories
specific skill shortages arise, e.g., engineers, accountants, and craftsmen
(Annex 1, Table 5).
2.07      At the average 1976-80 intake levels for education and training
programs, the yearly output of skills available for employment (roughly in
1979-83) would be about 1,180 for professionals (workers in skill category A),
7,200 for sub-professionals (skill category B), and 8,000 for skilled workers
(skill category C). Under the revised economic growth and productivity
assumptions, given the skill mix that prevailed in 1974, overall manpower
requirements would be met for skill categories A and B (see Annex 1, Table 6).
Had the 1974 skill mix continued, there would have been a shortage of skill
category C workers. But recent changes will offset this possibility. First,
a large cutback has occurred in Government hiring of Form 4 graduates who
constitute the major source of new workers at the category C level. Second,
there has been a rapid expansion of private secondary school enrollments.
From 1973 to 1976 these enrollments grew at an average annual rate of about
11% (compared to the 5% annual growth in Government schools) and more recently,
1975-76 enrollments grew at 16%. Third, evidence discussed in the BER strongly
suggests that estimates of skill category C requirements embody large upward
bias. Given these considerations it is reasonable to regard the supply of
category C as roughly in balance with requirements.
2.08      Specific skill shortages for engineers, accountants, and craftsmen
were identified in the Manpower Plan and recent experience in training and
recruiting has confirmed these shortages. Because of the felt need in these
areas, additional analyses of these specific skill requirements have been
undertaken. The Ministry of Finance and Planning and the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors (NBAA), with Bank Group assistance, have called



- 11 -
attention to the critical need for accountancy skills in parastatal develop-
ment and in the program of villagization as well as in Government. The ILO
and the National Vocational Training Program have pointed to vocational
training needs, especially in the skill areas outside the traditional building
trades such as various types of mechanics and machine tool operations. Fi-
nally, the need for engineering skills has been viewed as sufficiently critical
to call for an official exemption of engineering candidates from the two-year
national service requirement between secondary and higher education.
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN THE SECTOR
Past Experience and Lessons Learned
3.01      The previous five Bank Group-assisted projects in education have
broadly supported the Government's changing sectoral objectives. The general
thrust has reflected the Government's concern with manpower development,
concentrating on secondary education and training. With the Government's
increased emphasis on rural development, the Bank Group has made a number of
specific attempts at supporting the Government's training efforts in the rural
sector. The one obvious gap has been the lack of a major involvement in UPE.
To a large extent this reflects the high priority the Tanzanians have placed
on self-help and developing low-cost local solutions for meeting the require-
ments of UPE, as well as the emphasis which bilateral agencies (para. 1.19)
have placed on assisting the parts of this sub-sector requiring outside
assistance.
3.02      The first project (Credit 45-TA) in 1963 provided US$4.6 million
equivalent for the expansion of general secondary education and was success-
fully completed in 1967. The second (Credit 149-TA) in 1969 provided US$5.0
million equivalent for development of general secondary schools, the expansion
of primary teacher training, and the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College. This
project has been completed. The completion report on the second education
project uncovered a number of lessons among the most important of which were
the need: (i) to expand access for women to the higher and more specialized
areas of education and training; (ii) to assure that staff training be adequ-
ate to meet the staff requirements of expanded and newly created institutions;
and (iii) to upgrade management and administrative education personnel in
order to improve the quality and efficiency of education. The third education
project (Credit 232-TA) in 1971 provided US$3.3 million equivalent for agri-
cultural training facilities to train villagers, farmers, and agriculture
extension personnel. The project was completed two and one half years after
the original Closing Date. The completion report of the third education
project called attention to a number of significant points, e.g., (i) imple-
mentation schedules should generally be longer, especially in projects in-
volving more than one Ministry and where institutions are dispersed in distant
rural areas; (ii) innovations should be attuned to foreseeable changes in
broader Government policy to maximize chances of their being successfully
adopted. The fourth education project (Credit 371-TA) in 1973 provided
US$10.3 million equivalent to assist Tanzania's education strategy for the



- 12 -
Second Development Plan by: (i) developing education and training facilities
for children and adults in Ujamaa villages; (ii) expanding and improving
pre-service and in-service training of primary school teachers; (iii) provid-
ing additional facilities for training medical doctors; and (iv) providing
new general secondary schools and vocational training centers. Project
implementation is over one year behind schedule due to belated recruitment
of technical assistance personnel. Due to delay and the ensuing price
escalation, three secondary schools were deleted in 1975 to reduce cost,
again reflecting the need for more realistic implementation scheduling. The
fifth education project (Credit 607-TA) in 1976 provided US$11.0 million to
assist in the villagization program, and ongoing transformation of the educa-
tion system by providing for: (i) the training and housing of 1,500 Village
Management Technicians, (ii) the expansion and improvement of 15 secondary
schools; and (iii) pre-investment studies and surveys of accountancy, primary,
and secondary education. With respect to implementation, use of technical
assistance funds has been slow; only recently, action has been taken by the
MOE to implement the sub-sector survey of secondary schools requiring technical
assistance. Extension to secondary schools is proceeding satisfactorily but
construction of the 1,500 VMT houses is about 18 months behind schedule due
to the difficulties of implementing such a dispersed construction program.
Further, over 50% of trained VMTs were reassigned as Village Managers in
January 1978 as a result of a change in Government policy. This reassign-
ment has caused a setback for reaching the training target of 1,500 VMTs,
again reflecting the need to be aware of the probability of changes in Gov-
ernment policy during project design.
3.03      In addition to the specific experience of the previous five educa-
tion projects, the Bank Group has considerable knowledge of the sector. In
the late sixties the Bank conducted in collaboration with FAO the first major
study of agriculture education, and carried out in collaboration with UNESCO
the first comprehensive inventory of secondary school facilities. A sector
study was commissioned by the Bank Group in 1971 (conducted by the American
Education Council), in 1974 a sector survey was completed in cooperation with
UNESCO, and in 1976 an education sector memorandum was prepared by Bank Group
staff. In collaboration with USAID and the International Institute for
Educational Planning, the Bank Group has assisted Tanzania in the development
of education evaluation and monitoring. Further in 1976, at the Government's
request, Bank Group staff were involved in a special study of the fiscal
implications of UPE, under the auspices of the Bank's Basic Economic Report.
Finally, the Bank Group has financed studies in order to address areas where
it was felt gaps exist and more work needs to be done. For example, the
fourth education project provided a study of management training and in the
fifth education project funds were provided to support a study of accountancy
training, an updated survey of secondary school facilities, and a review of
the content and delivery system of primary education. Recently the Bank staff
has carried out a sub-sector study of rural education to examine the training
needs required by the rural sector. In June 1978, a special mission was sent
to lend technical assistance in manpower planning to the Ministry of Manpower
Development (para 2.02), continuing the sectoral dialogue.



- 13 -
Lending Strategy
3.04      In deciding on possible future activities in the sector in Tanzania
the Bank Group has taken into consideration the overall priorities of invest-
ments and the comparative advantage demonstrated by the Bank Group in the sub-
sectors considered for support. These concerns with priorities and compara-
tive advantage have led to two major categories for potential Bank Group
support. First, the extensive Bank Group experience in specialized skill
training (teacher training, vocational training, rural training centers,
etc.) has prepared the Bank Group to continue investment in specific areas of
critical skill shortage for self-sufficiency. Second, the Bank Group is in
the unique position of having practical experience in rural training through
a large investment program in agriculture and rural development. While rural
training can be expected to be a much more difficult focus for investment
than specialized education, it is of high priority and provides the basis
for an ongoing Bank Group dialogue with Tanzania looking toward a possible
seventh education project in this area.
3.05      The critical areas for specific skill expansion are those of
engineering, accountancy, and trade skills. The Federal Republic of Germany
is already addressing the first critical skill with the development of an
Engineering Faculty at the University of Dar-es-Salaam and the building of an
additional Technical College at Arusha (para. 1.19). The development of high
level accountancy and management training is receiving the attention of CIDA
with its Institute of Finance Management in Dar-es-Salaam (para. 1.19). Thus,
the Bank Group should focus its assistance on the critical areas of middle
and lower level accountancy training and vocational training, as well as in
qualitative improvement of the general education system.
Priority Areas for Lending
3.06      Vocational Training.  Recently, a joint Government of Tanzania,
SIDA, DANIDA, and GTZ (German Agency for Technical Cooperation) team com-
pleted a survey on vocational training and technical education in Tanzania.
The survey team's report includes a series of recommendations relevant to
the vocational training components of the project. The report is now under
consideration by the Government. It is our judgment that it provides a
framework for alleviating a number of problems in quality, access and organ-
ization of vocational training. However, in the interim, there are areas
of need that can be immediately addressed by project: (i) qualified staff,
(ii) needed instructional equipment, and (iii) access to rural non-day stu-
dents including women. Investments in these areas are consistent with the
general findings of the study.
3.07      The National Vocational Training Program is responsible for the
administration and operation of all vocational training and trade testing
programs of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. Three existing Voca-
tional Training Centers (VTC) at Chang'ombe, Tanga and Mwanza (the latter
two assisted under the fourth education project) have capacities of 1,100.
By 1982, the addition of three centers at Dodoma, Moshi and Mbeya which the



- 14 -
Government expects to develop with bilateral assistance, will raise enroll-
ments to 2,000.
3.08      The shortage of instructional staff has been a constraint on the
effective implementation of the VTC expansion program (Annex 1, Table 7).
In addition, less than 56% of current staff are considered to be fully
qualified as instructors in their respective technical fields. In 1975,
CIDA provided technical assistance for a pilot instructor training program
at the Chang'ombe VTC with enrollments of 40 per year in an eight-month
course.  First outputs in 1977 were immediately absorbed.  The CIDA project
will continue until 1980 with technical assistance and fellowship training.
After 1980, the project will continue to serve as a temporary source of in-
structor supply with Swiss Development Corporation assistance prior to the
operationalization of the proposed Bank Group assistance to the new ITC.
3.09      Aside from instructor training needs for its expanding system of
VTCs, additional qualified staff are needed for the promotion and supervision
of in-plant training programs, the training of industrial trainers, the trade
testing program and the staffing requirements of Mission Trade Schools and
TAPA (para. 1.13) schools (Annex 1, Table 7). And, while the MOE prefers to
train technical teachers for its own institutions, the demand brought about by
the secondary school curriculum diversification program will require additional
sources of teachers. The total shortfall of vocational instructors will be
as high as 440 in 1985 if new sources of supply are not developed (Annex 1,
Table 7).
3.10      Equipment is needed in order to overcome existing deficiencies,
and to upgrade the level of instruction from Grade 3 to Grades 2 and 1 as
originally envisioned. 1/
3.11      Ninety-five % of all students in the existing VTCs come from
the surrounding urban areas. In order to rectify this regional imbalance
additional boarding accommodations will be needed.
3.12      Management and Accountancy Training.  The April 1975 Management
Training Study financed with Bank Group assistance under the fourth education
project provides an exhaustive and pertinent review of managerial problems,
types of training needed and projections of future manpower requirements in
the managerial field. The study indicates that in Government and parastatal
institutions, there were 1,330 managers at post in 1975 and 260 vacancies. It
also projects that the managerial staff will increase to 2,100 in 1980 and to
2,850 in 1985, thereby doubling the number of required managers in ten years.
In the area of accountancy training the study points out the need to address
the problems of staffing, student performance and examination standards. In
1/   Craftsmen Qualifications:
Grade 1   Fully competent craftsmen with supervisory expertise.
Grade 2   Fully skilled in all the elements of a trade.
Grade 3   Skilled in certain basic elements only of the occupation.



- 15 -
1976, the Government issued a "White Paper" setting up the National Management
Development Advisory Council to keep the entire field of management develop-
ment including accountancy training under continuous review and to provide
guidance to the Ministry of Manpower Development in this area.
3.13      Accountants, both at the professional and the sub-professional
levels, while part of the management cadre are treated separately in Tanzanian
manpower calculations. In 1974 there were about 9,600 employed in accountancy
related categories. Their numbers are expected to increase at nearly 8% per
annum so that the number employed in 1985 would reach 21,600 or more than twice
the number employed in 1974. At the level of the 1975-80 Manpower Plan demand
would grow at about 1,100 annually while supply would grow at 785 annually by
1982 when the various programs established in recent years achieve full oper-
ating capacity. According to this level of demand there would be a shortfall
of about 350 per annum of technicians and about 60 per annum of professionals
(Annex 1, Table 8). If recent changes in the villagization program are taken
into account, an additional need for at least one subprofessional at the ward
level would result in a shortfall of about 100 sub-professionals per annum.
Other accountancy needs of villages, as high as 30,000 bookkeepers and related
personnel, are to be trained at least initially in Government accelerated pro-
grams.
3.14      Related to the quantitative output of accountancy personnel is
the problem of training inefficiency. In 1977, 85% of accountancy candidates
failed the National Board of Accountants and Auditors qualifying examination.
The Government is organizing a study of this problem utilizing funds under
the fifth education project. Terms of reference have been reviewed and
approved by the Bank Group staff and an executive secretary for the study panel
has been appointed.
3.15      Management Training for Education Personnel.  The Ministry of
National Education is also in need of managerial improvement and strengthening
(para. 1.08). With the rapid expansion of the education system ad hoc train-
ing programs have proven to be insufficient. There is a need at all levels:
Regional, District and Divisional Education Officers, Principals and Head
Teachers, among others. The MOE has also recognized the need to consolidate
and intensify these courses into an organized national program of in-service
management training.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      Following a review of the status of ongoing education projects,
preliminary discussions on possible Bank Group assistance to the Third Five-
Year Plan education investment program were held in February 1977. This was
followed by a Bank-UNESCO project identification mission in July 1977 and
further discussions between the Bank staff and the Tanzanian authorities in
November 1977. The various Government agencies involved in the sector (e.g.,
Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Prime Minister's
Office, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Finance and
Planning) formulated extensive proposals for Bank Group assistance during the
next five years. These were reviewed by the July and November 1977 Bank



- 16 -
Group missions and a number of items were suggested for the inclusion into
the proposed sixth education project under the auspices of a recent set of
Government proposals prepared with assistance from UNESCO and presented to
the Bank Group in February 1978.
Objectives
4.02      The major objective of the project is to assist in the development
of critical middle level management and skill training for the modern sector
(para. 3.05).  In order to accomplish this, the project provides for the
following items:
Project Items                  Objectives                 Specific Assistance
1.  Vocational Training         A.  Quality               a)  Civil works, equipment,
Centers                         improvement               and furniture
2.  NVTP Instructor Training  B.  Manpower                a)  Civil works, equipment,
Center                          development and           and furniture
quality
improvement
3.  Technical Secondary         C.  Greater oppor-        a)  Civil works, equipment,
Schools                         tunity for                and furniture
women
4.  School of Accountancy       D.  Manpower              a)  Civil works, equipment
development and          and furniture
quality
improvement
5. Management Training          E.  Institution           a)  Civil works, equipment
for Education Personnel         building                  and furniture
b)  Technical assistance
The total number of new student places to be provided is 720.  The number
to be upgraded through provision of additional equipment and facilities is
approximately 6,600.
4.03      During the preparation and appraisal of the proposed sixth education
project, efforts were made to apply solutions to lessons learned from the
previous projects. The project focuses only on a comparatively small number
of institutions almost all of which are located in major towns.  Staff develop-
ment plans on all new project institutions have been included in the project
(paras. 4.08, 4.12, and 4.15); upgrading management capabilities of education
personnel is being addressed directly in the project (paras 4.14-4.17); a plan
for coordinating procurement procedures is being prepared (para. 6.04) due to
the involvement of three different Ministries in the proposed project;
and women's educational opportunities were increased through the proposed
addition of boarding facilities at four technical secondary schools (paras
4.09-4.10).



- 17 -
4.04      The project objectives are in line with Tanzania's Third Five-Year
Development Plan which places emphasis on the provision of technical and
commercial skills relevant to the country's development and the promotion
of equality of opportunity for women (para. 1.05). The objectives are also
consistent with the Bank's present lending strategy in Tanzania of qualitative
improvement and limited expansion in critical specialized skill areas (paras.
3.04 and 3.05).
Project Items
Vocational and Technical Education
4.05      Improvement of Mwanza and Tanga Vocational Training Centers (VTCs).
The project will provide for the procurement of additional equipment for the
Mwanza and Tanga Vocational Training Centers. It will also provide accommoda-
tion for staff and students at these VTCs: 150 student boarding places and
15 staff houses at each VTC. This additional boarding accommodation will
promote access to non-day students from distant rural areas. The staff hous-
ing would provide the necessary incentive to recruit and maintain qualified
instructional staff.
4.06      NVTP Instructor Training Center (ITC).  The Government proposes to
develop a new Instructor Training Center at Morogoro as part of the National
Vocational Training Program. The selection of the Morogoro site is supported
by the extensive future industrial development at Morogoro, central location,
and availability of land, power and water.
4.07      The project will help finance the proposed Instructor Training
Center. Total enrollments will amount to 160 trainees comprised of four pre-
service groups of 30 each in eight-month courses, and two in-service groups of
20 each. Since the NVT$ program has experienced severe handicaps due to the
lack of boarding accomm3dation and staff houses at other locations, accord-
ingly the project item will include boarding accommodation for the 160 stu-
dents and the basic start-up requirement of five staff houses. The needed
additional staff houses will be constructed by the Center's instructor
trainees as part of the instructional program. The ITC would require unusu-
ally high allocations for equipment. The basic VTC equipment for the larger
occupations will be required to provide testing, remedial instruction and
practice teaching. In addition, the ITC instructor trainees will need
technical upgrading in order to achieve the level of Grade 1 tradesman. The
ITC will also require vehicles for field support purposes.
4.08      The present CIDA technical assistance to the pilot instructor
training program will continue for two years. Following a review in 1980,
the termination or continuation of this program will be considered. The
Government anticipates favorable response to its request to CIDA, or other
bilateral agencies, e.g., Swiss Development Corporation, for an expanded
project. The Government gave assurances that it will submit a staff develop-
ment plan for the ITC to the Bank Group for review and comment by December 31,
1979, or such later date as the Association may accept; and that it will
secure the necessary staff for the proper operation of this proposed project
institution in a timely fashion.



- 18 -
4.09      Improvement of the Access of Women to Technical Education.  Despite
national adherence to equal opportunity for women, secondary education has
largely offered women only home economics and secretarial careers.  For zh-is
reason the current Five-Year Plan has an explicit goal of increasing opportuni-
ties for women in education (para. 1.05). School enrollment data for 1976
indicate that one of the areas of lowest female participation is in technical
education: females account for only 0.5% of enrollments in technical colleges
compared to 18% of Form 5 and 6 enrollments, 13% of university graduates, 5%
of students studying abroad. The exceptionally low enrollment of women in
technical colleges is a consequence of the token number of women included
among the 2,800 students at the four Tanzanian technical secondary schools.
Although women compete freely with men for available places in the technical
secondary schools, they are de facto excluded by the lack of hostel accom-
modation. Women are accepted only as day students or, in very limited cases,
accommodated with make-shift quarters. National selection data indicate that
if more boarding places were available, more than 25% of available places
could be filled by interested, qualified women.
4.10      This project item will support a concerted effort on the part of
Tanzania to achieve its objective of greater participation of women in educa-
tion and develoment, by adding 160 hostel places to each of four existing
technical secondary schools. These additions would raise women's participa-
tion at technical secondary schools from about 3% to a planned 25% by 1983.
Total enrollments in these schools would remain fixed at about 2,800 but the
number of usable hostel places would be increased from 1,900 to 2,540, or
about 90% of enrollment capacity. Full boarding is the accepted standard to
ensure regional equity for the nationally organized admission selections. The
enhanced boarding facilities would be complemented by the improvements in
workshops and equipment recently provided under a bilateral grant from the
Netherlands.
Management and Accountancy Training
4.11      Dar-es-Salaam School of Accountancy (DSA).  The DSA was established
in 1973 by the Ministry of Finance and Planning to provide training for
technician (accounts clerks and store-keepers) and sub-professional (junior
accountants and bookkeepers) personnel at the preservice and in-service
levels. The school primarily serves Government but is expected to play an
increasing role in the parastatal, private and cooperative sectors. In 1977,
there were 455 students enrolled in the school and an additional 345 in its
four branches in other parts of the country. There are 33 staff members. It
is proposed to increase the DSA enrollment to 1,015 with a ratio of approxi-
mately seven technicians to each sub-professional.  This proposed expansion
would add significantly to the stock of trained personnel at these levels.
The DSA would develop a staffing scheme and train accountancy tutors to meet
their own needs. To accomplish this expansion the DSA would require: (i)
five additional instructors and 29 tutors; (ii) 33 additional classrooms and
seminar rooms; two model offices; (iii) administrative and office facilities;
(iv) boarding, staff housing, dining and kitchen facilities; and (v) vehicles,
furniture and equipment. Boarding is required because the DSA is a national
institution with countrywide recruitment. Staff housing is essential due to
the dire housing shortage in Dar-es-Salaam.



- 19 -
4.12      The 24 man-years of technical assistance required for staff is
expected to be provided by CIDA and/or SIDA. The Government gave assurances
that it will secure the necesssary staff for the proper operation of the DSA
in a timely fashion, and that a staff development plan for the DSA will be
submitted to the Association for review and comment by December 31, 1979, or
such later date as may be acceptable to the Association.
4.13      The Bank Group assistance to accountancy training in Tanzania has
been reviewed at length in the past and in view of the overall accountancy
shortage high priority is evident (para. 3.13). However, a major issue
remains related to the rectification of the existing high failure rate
(85 percent) and questions concerning the examination system and appropriate-
ness of the accountancy curriculum in general (para 3.14). In the near
future, the Government will undertake a review of this problem with assistance
from an International Accountancy Review Panel comprised of international
experts financed under the fifth education project (para 3.14). The Government
gave assurances that it will furnish to the Association for review and comment
the report of the International Accountancy Review Panel by July 1, 1979, or
such later date as the Association may accept, and will provide the Association
the opportunity to exchange views with it regarding the actions to be taken to
meet Tanzania's needs for trained accountants. In addition, a condition of
disbursement for civil works, furniture and equipment contracts for this item
will be that the Borrower shall have adopted a plan of action adequate to
ensure the efficient training of accountants in Tanzania.
4.14      Management Training for Educational Personnel (MANTEP).  The
MANTEP program will result in expansion and consolidation of a variety
of existing in-service programs which are designed to teach administrative
and supervisory techniques to the field officers of the Ministry of National
Education. Since major emphasis over the next ten years will be put on
increasing the efficiency and improving the quality of the educational
system, the proper training of this administrative cadre is vital to the
success of these efforts. The in-service training would be provided for all
Regional, District, and Divisional Education Officers; Supply and Inspection
Officers; College Principals and their Deputies; Secondary School Principals
and Deputies, and for Head Teachers of primary schools.
4.15      MANTEP will require an initial staff development program.  The ten
permanent staff members will receive training at the East Africa Management
Institute (EAMI) 1/ in Arusha and that Institute, together with other agen-
cies such as the fnstitute of Education, will assist in the preparation of
the curricula during the training program. Training programs for the staff
will be designed to meet the specific needs of each level of the educational
field staff from Regional Education Officers to Head Teachers of primary
schools. The Government gave assurances that a staff development plan will be
1/   The East African Management Institute was established by an Act of the
East African Legislative Assembly in response to the expressed needs
of the partner states of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. In spite of the
problems encountered by the East African Community the Institute is
still actively engaged in management and organization development.



- 20 -
submitted to the Bank Group for review and comment by December 31, 1979 or
such later date as may be acceptable to the Association. Programs will cover
duties and responsibilities; scheduling, accounting, evaluation and training
activities; report writing and methods of teacher, school and curricular
appraisal, and methods of instruction. The courses would include considerable
field work with school visits, school inspections, the development of evalua-
tion forms and methods and sample report writing.
4.16      The project institution will be located in Bagamoyo on the site of
the present College of National Education. Hostel facilities are adequate to
meet MANTEP's needs. MANTEP would not displace the present College. About
500 students per annum could be trained in induction courses ranging from one
to four months. About 2,800 staff members would be trained over the first
five years in these induction courses. The induction courses, once completed,
would be replaced by longer and more intensive training courses.
4.17      This project component will consist of renovation, furniture and
equipment for the seminary building, three vehicles, funds to supply the
course and teaching materials and one man-year of technical assistance. Funds
will also be provided to cover the expense of the three-month instructor
training program at the EAMI. The Government gave assurances that the terms
of reference for the technical assistance specialist and the EAMI instructor
training program will be submitted to the Association for review and comment
by December 31, 1979, or such later date as the Association may accept.
The Government also gave assurances that the technical assistance specialist
to assist MANTEP will be employed by March 31, 1980, or such later date as may
be acceptable to the Association.
Project-Related Studies
4.18      The Institute of Education (I.E.) Pre-Investment Study.  The
Institute of Education was established in 1964 as part of the University of
Dar-es-Salaam. To facilitate its performance, and to make it more effective,
it was given parastatal status in 1975. It has about 20 staff members and
also receives itinerant staff assistance from the University. Its primary
functions are educational planning, evaluation and research, assistance in
the development of curriculum and in-service training.
4.19      The recent changes in educational policy have resulted in major
increases in the work load of the Institute, especially in the area of
National curriculum development, and have raised questions regarding how it
might be reorganized to improve its effectiveness. To this end, a major
reassessment, or feasibility study, of the Institute would be undertaken to
define its future role, assess its staffing needs and to plan for physical
expansion. The proposed project would include the provision of US$75,000
equivalent including contingencies to fund the proposed study. Satisfactory
draft terms of reference have already been reviewed by the Bank Group.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      Building on earlier joint Bank Group-Institute of International Educa-
tional Planning assistance provided to the MOE for the training of evaluation



- 21 -
personnel (para. 3.03), funds would be provided to support project monitoring
and evaluation. These funds in the amount of US$75,000 equivalent including
contingencies would be administered by the MOE Project Planning Section (para.
6.02). The Government gave assurances that the terms of reference for this
monitoring and evaluation activities will be submitted to the Association for
review and comment by December 31, 1979, or such later date as may be accept-
able to the Association. As a part of project evaluation during negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it would prepare and furnish to the
Association, promptly after completion of the proposed project, but in any
event not later than three months after the project closing date, a report on
the execution and initial operations of the proposed project, its costs and
the benefits derived, the performance by the Government and the Association
of their respective obligations under the credit agreement, the accomplishment
of the purpose of the credit, and significant lessons learned during project
implementation. This report along with other monitoring and evaluation acti-
vities will be carried out by the Project Planning Section in cooperation with
various relevant branches of the Ministry of National Education, Ministry of
Finance and Planning, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.0 million
equivalent including duties and taxes estimated at US$1.6 million equivalent.
The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in Annex 1 Table
9 and summarized as follows:



- 22 -
ESTIMATED COST BY PROJECT ITEMS
Civil Works, Furniture,                                                               % of
Equipment, Vehicles, and            T. Shs. (million)            US$ (million)        Base
Technical Assistance              Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
Vocational Training Centers
1.  Tanga                       3.84    3.89    7.73       0.48    0.49    0.97    9%
2.  Mwanza                       4.30    4.29    8.59      0.53    0.54    1.07   10%
Instructor Training Center
3.  Morogoro                     7.80    8.69   16.49      0.98    1.08    2.06   19%
Technical Secondary Schools
4.  Ifunda                       2.07    1.86    3.93      0.26    0.23    0.49    4%
5.  Moshi                        1.97    1.77    3.74      0.25    0.22    0.47    4%
6.  Mtwara                       2.02    1.82    3.84      0.25    0.23    0.48    4%
7.  Tanga                        1.85    1.66    3.51      0.23    0.21    0.44    4%
School of Accountancy
8.  Dar es Salaam               15.04   14.26   29.38      1.88    1.78    3.66   34%
MANTEP
9.  Bagamoyo                    0.98    3.87    4.85       0.12    0.49    0.61    6%
Project Administration and
Monitoring and Studies
10.  Dar es Salaam               1.77    3.29    5.06       0.22    0.41    0.63    6%
Base Cost (November 1978)         41.64   45.40   87.40       5.20    5.68   10.88  100%
(Total 1 to 10)
Contingencies
a.  Physical Increase (9%)   3.82    3.88    7.70        0.48    0.48    0.96
b.  Price Increase (36%)    16.10   17.21   33.31        2.01    2.15    4.16
Sub-Total                         19.92   21.09   41.01       2.49    2.63    5.12
PROJECT COST                      61.56   66.49  128.05       7.69    8.31   16.00 1/
(Total 1-10 plus contingencies)
1/   Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$1.6 million equivalent.



- 23 -
5.02      Civil works, furniture and equipment costs are based upon tenders
received during 1977 and 1978 for the fourth and fifth education projects
assisted by the Bank Group as well as other similar projects. The November
1978 base construction costs are estimated to vary from US$330 per square
meter in Tanga to US$400 per square meter in Ifunda; this compares with an
estimated cost of US$350 equivalent in Zaire (March 1976) and US$250 equiva-
lent in Kenya (April 1978). While construction cost is high in Tanzania
(para. 6.08), proposed design of project institutions would be as economical
as feasible yet functional and in keeping with local standards and building
technology 1/. Student boarding and staff housing are in line with past
experience in similar Bank projects, as shown below:
1967-71    1971-73    1974-77    Proposed
Projects   Projects   Projects   Project
Median Value (m ) for:
(1) Student Boarding Places
a)  Secondary Schools              7.4        7.8         6.5         6.7
b) Post Secondary,
Non University               8.4         8.2        10.4         9.1
(2)  Staff Housing                      130         103         99          90
5.03      Student boarding amounts to 38% of the total project cost including
contingencies. Of total boarding, about 40% is for women's dormitories to
increase the participation of women in technical education (para 4.09-4.10).
An additional 20% of boarding is for the VTCs (para 4.05). The remainder of
boarding is to ensure regional equity for enrollments at national institu-
tions. As brought out in the second education project Completion Report
additional benefits of boarding include more effective attitudinal change
regarding self-reliance and greater utilization of instructional facilities.
Staff housing constitutes about 14% of total project cost. Of total staff
housing, about one half is for the VTCs (para 4.05), and the bulk of the
remainder is for the DSA which has faced severe recruiting problems due to
the current housing shortage in Dar-es-Salaam. The amount of staff housing
has been calculated according to the degree to which additional houses are
expected to improve the quality and efficiency of education through staff
improvement. A technical assistance specialist (para. 4.17) has been costed
at US$55,000 per man-year before contingencies.
Customs Duties and Taxes
5.04      Items imported directly for the project by the MOE Project Planning
Section would be exempted from customs duties and taxes. However, most of the
1/   For example, presently the PPS is evaluating the appropriateness and
cost-effectiveness of facilities design in past and existing projects.
Recommendations of this study will be incorporated in new project
facilities.



- 24 -
building material to be used and fuel and vehicles for transport would be
acquired by contractors on the open market and subject to duties and taxes
that are estimated at US$1.6 million equivalent.
Contingency Allowances
5.05      For physical cost increases, 10% has been added to the base cost
of civil works, and 5% to the base cost of furniture, equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance and project administration. Estimated price increases
are based upon the application of the following annual percentage rates of
price escalation to the base cost date (November 1978) and in accordance
with the implementation schedule (Annex 1, Chart 3).
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles
Technical Assistance and
Year         Civil Works           Project Administration
1978            8  %                       7  %
1979             7.5%                      6.5%
1980-85         7  %                       6.0%
Foreign Exchange Component
5.06      The foreign exchange component of US$8.3 million equivalent has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 48%; (b) furniture, 23%; (c)
equipment and vehicles, 90%; (d) technical assistance, 80%; and (e) project
administration and monitoring, 65%. The foreign exchange component reflects
the fact that most of the building materials still have to be imported and
the cost of fuel and vehicles for local transport has greatly increased.
Financial Plan
5.07      An IDA credit of US$12.0 million equivalent would represent 75%
of the total project cost of US$16.0 million including duties and taxes or
83% of the project cost net of taxes. It would finance the foreign exchange
component and 48% of the local currency component.
(US$ Million equivalent)
Category                             Government         IDA         Total
1.  Civil Works                         2.51           5.86          8.37
2.  Furniture                           0.06           0.59          0.65
3.  Equipment and vehicles              0.02           1.15           1.17
4.  Technical assistance                0.01           0.05          0.06
5. Project Administration, Studies,
Monitoring and Evaluation           0.19          0.44           0.63
6.  Unallocated                         1.21           3.91          5.12
Total                               4.00         12.00          16.00
(of which taxes)                   1.64                          1.64



- 25 -
5.08      In any Government fiscal year during project implementation the
maximum Government contribution to the project, inclusive of taxation, is not
expected to exceed US$2.2 million equivalent. This figure is less than 1/2%
of the 1977/78 Development Budget of Tanzania or about 4% of the education
capital budget. The recurrent expenditures generated by the project would be
about 2% of the estimated total expenditure of MOE in 1982/83.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
6.01      The project will be implemented over a period of about six years,
including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals. This
schedule takes account of the experience gained with previous Bank Group-
assisted education projects in Tanzania (para. 3.02).
6.02      The Project Planning Section (project unit) will perform adminis-
trative and professional services for the sixth education project. The PPS
is an administrative and architectural/engineering unit established within
MOE for the implementation of the last three of the previous five education
projects assisted by the Bank Group in Tanzania as well as other investment
programs in the sector. The PPS has performed well and is presently staffed
with about 40 professionals and has adequate supporting staff. The PPS is
receiving major technical assistance from DANIDA in particular, and from
NORAD. Other projects administered by the PPS include projects sponsored
mainly by DANIDA, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and SIDA.
6.03      The Government has recently concluded an agreement whereby the
ongoing DANIDA technical assistance including a local staff development plan
will be extended by 22 man years beginning January 1979.  Both DANIDA and
NORAD are expected to extend their technical assistance to the PPS to cover
the implementation period of the proposed sixth education project. The
Government gave assurances that the staff provided for the PPS will be retained
throughout the period of project implementation and that local staff will be
assigned for adequate training in a timely fashion.
6.04      To ensure that the procurement of equipment for the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare institutions included in the project will be effec-
tively pursued, a representative of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
will be appointed to provide liaison between the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare and the PPS. Arrangements for effective liaison on procurement
matters will be by mutual agreement of the two Ministries, but PPS will con-
tinue to be the official procurement agency and channel of communication with
the Association on all project matters. The Government gave assurances that
it will provide a plan for clearly defining tasks, lines of reporting and
decision making, financing, and local staff training for the project imple-
mentation arrangements between the relevant ministries to the Association for
review and comment by June 1, 1979, or such later date as may be acceptable
to the Association, and thereafter implement this plan.



- 26 -
Architectural/Engineering Services
6.05      The PPS will be responsible for the design, preparation of tender
documents and supervision of construction works and procurement of furni-
ture, vehicles and equipment. Similar tasks have been already carried out
successfully by PPS for previous Bank Group-assisted education projects.
Repetition of design already used and found adequate will be used whenever
appropriate. Due to overlapping of projects and accumulation of tasks,
PPS may find it necessary to call upon consultants, particularly of elec-
trical and mechanical engineering. Approximately US$230,000 equivalent
is provided in the total project cost for such services. The Government
gave assurances that consultants will be selected with qualifications and
terms and conditions of contract satisfactory to the Association.
Sites
6.06      Sites are available and owned by the Government for all proposed
project institutions. In cases where sites have to be allocated no difficul-
ties are forecast. The Government gave assurances that sites satisfactory to
the Bank Group will be provided in accordance with the project implementation
schedule (Annex 1, Chart 3).
Building Industry
6.07      The total value of construction in Tanzania was reported to be about
T. Shs. 718 millions (US$90 million equivalent) in 1975. In real terms, the
maximum annual value of construction of about T. Shs. 40 million in fiscal
year 1981/82 under the project would represent less than 3% of the 1975 output
of buildings.
6.08      The average annual growth reported for the construction industry in
Tanzania was 0.1% for the years 1972-76, while it was minus 3.5% for the years
1974-76. This unsatisfactory trend appears to have halted in 1977 with signs
of recovery in 1978. Construction cost increases over 1972-1976 were erratic
ranging from 15% to 75% per annum. The increase was largely due to world
inflation, tax and wage increases. Currently, price increases in the con-
struction industry appear to follow international price trends with an annual
increase below 10%. The major constraints in the construction sector are: a)
shortage of construction materials imported and distributed by a Government
supply company; b) high cost of transport, and c) shortage of skilled manpower.
In spite of the priority reserved in public projects to a Government building
construction company a large portion of construction projects are implemented
by private domestic and foreign companies. Due to the sufficient number of
contracting firms operating in Tanzania, acceptable bidding competition is
expected as experienced in previous Bank Group-financed projects.
Procurement and Disbursement
6.09      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, including vehi-
cles, will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines for procurement except as follows:



- 27 -
(i) construction of the MANTEP (estimated at US$100,000); (ii) furniture,
vehicles and equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
each; and (iii) local transportation of equipment and furniture. Contracts
for those items (i, ii and iii) will be awarded by competitive bidding,
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank Group.
6.10      Sketch design, draft tender documents and master lists of furniture
and equipment, including proposed grouping, will be reviewed by the Bank
Group. Items will be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage com-
petitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation
documents by the Bank Group prior to award will not be required for building
construction contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each and for
furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each.
6.11      Qualified domestic building contractors will be allowed a prefer-
ential margin of 7.5% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors, and
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment will be allowed a prefer-
ence of 15% or the existing rate of import duties whichever is lower, over
the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
6.12      Disbursement (Annex 1 Table 11) will be on the basis of:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures for technical assistance, consultant services, stud-
ies, monitoring and evaluation and directly imported furniture, equipment
and vehicles; (b) 90% of the ex-factory cost of furniture, equipment and
vehicles if locally manufactured; (c) 90% of total expenditures for local
transportation of equipment and furniture; (d) 85% of total expenditures for
imported furniture, equipment and vehicles procured locally, off-the-shelves;
and (e) 70% of total expenditures for civil works, project administration, and
of local expenditures for technical assistance consultant services, studies,
evaluation and monitoring. Disbursements will be fully documented except for
those concerning (i) local transportation of equipment and furniture, and (ii)
project administration, studies, evaluation and monitoring. Disbursements for
these items (estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent including contingencies)
will be made on the basis of a certificate of expenditure, documentation for
which will not be submitted to the Bank Group but retained by the Government
and available for review in the course of project supervision.
6.13      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984, with
a proposed Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1985, which includes six months
for completion of payments and withdrawals of the proceeds of the credit.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.01      The principal benefits of the proposed project can be summarized
under the general headings of consolidation and quality improvement; access
and equity; critical skills development; and institution building.



- 28 -
Consolidation and Qualitative Improvement
7.02      The project will consolidate and strengthen the existing NVTP by
providing much needed equipment and accommodations in two existing VTCs.
The quality of instruction will also be improved through the development of
a vocational and technical education ITC which will offer both in-service
and pre-service training to existing and prospective staff of the VTCs and
other skill training institutions (paras 4.06-4.08).
Access and Equity
7.03      The project will promote the equality of educational opportunity
for women in the area of vocational and technical education by providing
hostels for women at the four existing technical secondary schools. This
will increase female participation in secondary technical education from
3% to 25% by 1983. Geographical equity will also be promoted by this proj-
ect through the addition of boarding facilities to facilitate access for
rural students at two VTCs. While geographic and sex discrimination will
be reduced by increasing access, overall enrollments in the technical sec-
ondary schools will remain stable during this period of program consolida-
tion and qualitative improvement (para 4.10).
Critical Skills Development
7.04      The project will support an increase in the output of middle level
accountancy manpower. This will be accomplished by enlarging the facilities
at the DSA to realize an increased output of technical and sub-professional
accountants at the DSA by 70% over a five-year period (para 4.11).
7.05      While the proposed vocational and technical education ITC will
serve the important function of qualitative improvement through staff up-
grading, it will also contribute to an increment of manpower (instructional
staff) for vocational education nationwide. This increase of instructors will
be important given the Government's planned expansion of the NVTP through the
addition of three new vocational training centers. The expansion, financed
through bilateral assistance, will take place over the next five years (para
3.07).
Institution Building
7.06      The institutional capacity for training managers and administrators
of the education sector has been minimal (para. 1.08), with systematic
training taking place outside the country. The project will address this
management training problem by institutionalizing a local capacity for con-
ducting continuous in-service and pre-service training for education manage-
ment personnel. This local capacity will be installed through the re-
habilitation of a facility at the existing Bagamoyo College of National
Education; and the provision of technical assistance to develop education
management training curricula, and the development of a core staff of about



- 29 -
ten management trainers to launch the program. This institution will be
capable of providing in-service training to a range of education sector
officers, from Regional Education Officers to Primary School Head Teachers,
at a rate of 500 persons per year trained in 1-3 month courses. In addition
to institutionalizing the training of management personnel for the education
sector, the project will provide institutional development support to the
Institute of Education through technical assistance to: i) strengthen the
project evaluation capacity of the Institute, particularly to assist in the
development of a long-term monitoring and evaluation system for Bank Group-
assisted education projects; and ii) to prepare a long-term development plan
for the Institute based upon an assessment of national curriculum development,
research, and related training needs (paras. 4.19).
Risks
7.07      The project emphasis on consolidation and quality improvement
minimizes the normal risks of overproduction and misallocation associated
with projects focusing on the expansion of the sector. Where expansion is
the goal it has been with a focus on specific critical skill areas, e.g.,
bookkeepers, accountants and craftsmen. The major risk in this project lies
more in its technical execution than in the substantive areas chosen for
support. Although three Ministries (Finance, Labor and Education) are
involved in the project, the thrust of implementation rests with the Project
Planning Section of the Ministry of National Education, therefore, close
interministerial coordination at the critical stages of design, tendering
and procurement will be necessary (para. 6.04) In addition, funds have been
placed in the project to insure an ongoing monitoring and evaluation process
(para. 4.20).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a) staffing of the project institutions and staff
development plans (paras 4.08, 4.12, 4.15, 6.03,
and 6.05);
(b) technical assistance, studies, monitoring and eval-
uation (paras 4.08, 4.13, 4.17, 4.20, 6.03, and
6.05); and
(c) project implementation arrangements (paras. 4.17,
6.04 and 6.06).



- 30 -
8.02      A condition of disbursement for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment contracts for the Dar-es-Salaam School of Accountancy will be that the
Borrower shall have adopted a plan of action adequate to ensure the efficient
training of accountants in Tanzania (para. 4.13).
8.03      The project is suitable as a basis for a credit of US$12 million
equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania on standard IDA terms.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Past and Projected Enrollments in Public and Private Schools, 1967-1990
Projection
1967       1970        1973        1974         1975        1976        1977        1978            1980       1985         1990
Government Primary Schools '
Standard 1         157,196    172,576    226,071    231,350    473,067    542,974    540,173    947,890                506,300    586,700    680,200
Standard 2         146,943    152,234    199,119    221,350    232,395    449,969    537,544    548,395                955,700    541,200    627,400
Standard 3         140,879    141,734    174,328    204,164    212,416    242,726    445,467    487,652                873,500    509,600    590,800
Standard 4         132,973    138,458    153,169    186,289    187,258    210,244    213,718    386,352                537,500    480,000    556,400
Standard 5          60,956      88,634    133,300    169,124    165,253    185,384    207,989    228,530               478,000    466,000    540,200
Standard 6          54,036      68,714    116,593    154,826    152,426    163,328    183,520    194,587               386,400    452,600    524,500
Standard 7          51,460      65,624    103,807    152,686    137,965    150,013    162,018    176,367               228,500    899,200    509,200
Standard 8_1          8,671        -           -           -           -           -           -           -
TOTAL              773,114    827,974  1,106,387  1,320,145  1,572,849  1,944,638  2,290,449  2,968,773              3,965,900  3,935,300  4,028,600
Government and Private Secondary Schools
Form 1-4            29,811      38,085      43,395      46,303      49,184       53,257      56,737      59,589         65,113       88,162    121,019
Form 5-6              1,731      3,093       3,730        3,994       3,963       3,886       3,868       3,868           3,949       4,347       4,765
Total               31,542      41,178      47,125      50,297       53,147      57,143      60,605      63,457         69,062       92,509    125,784
Form 1                9,226     10,393       12,312      13,232      13,700      14,376      15,260      16,323          18,209      24,770      34,162
x
Form 4                5,460      8,727        9,586     10,222       10,640      11,798      13,043      13,461          14,309      19,242      26,231
Form 6                  816      1,438        1,788       1,913       1,976       1,946       1,924       1,929           1,946       2,147       2,348
17  Enrollments are for government schools only; however, private primary school enrollments accounted for only about 20,000 in 1977.
2/ Standard 8 discontinued after 1967.
Source:  Enrollments from the 1976 Manpower Report to the President, and from the Ministry of National Education; projected enrollments
represent World Bank Group staff estimates.
November 1978



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Past and Proiected Government Recurrent Expenditure on Education and Training
(Millions of Shillings)
1982/83
Projected Recurrent Costs
Corrent Prices                                                                                   (in 1976/77 Prices)
1976/77                Average Annual                        Alternative Hypotheses
Approved   1977/78      Growth Rates                     A                B                C
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   Estimate   Estimate  1972-76   1976-77                   (Optimistic)  (Intermediate)  (Pessimistic)
Administration & Genera l
Ministry of Education                 14.6       15.6       16.6      10.7       15.7       34.8       23.7       24.9        31.3      21.2       13.6                   43.5            38.8             38.8
Regional Expenditures                                                  7.0       10.9       19.2       15.7       18.5       18.0                                         32.8            29.3             29.3
Primary Education
Ministry of Education                124.3      140.0     171.0       13.0       12.8       24.0       20.8       18.0       19.3       17.3       51.7                   35.1            31.3             31.3
Regional Expenditures                                                136.5      182.7      218.6     288.1      361.7       556.6       1                                770.4           770.4           952.5
Secondary/Technlcal/Commercial/
Agricultural/Home Economics              57.7      58.1       65.0      70.9       88.2       107.5      111.6      138.2       145.3      16.3        5.1                  164.1           164.1            164.1
Teacher Training                         15.0      17.8      19.5       24.6       32.3        34.4       43.3       46.6       96.4       19.0      111.1                   87.1            87.1             87.1
Higher Education                         32.7       42.0       45,8      51.9       68.4       96.3      106.6      115.3       123.3      20.3        6.9                  194.6           173.6            173.6
Adult Education
Ministry of Education                    .7       7.8       11.0       8.1       18.2       23.0       21.3       12.4       13.5                                         61.02/          54.52/           54.52/            1
Regional Expenditures                                                 15.3       17.2       21.7      19.8       26.1        65.0       34.2       87.0                   74.6            66.5            66.5
Folk Development Colleges                 -          -          -          -         -          -          -          9.0       10.9
Total                                245.0      281.3     328.9      331.0      446.4      579.5      680.9     771.0      1079.6       18.6       40.0                1,463.2         1,416.2         1,598.3
Ministry of Education                                                172.7      235.6      320.0      357.3      364.4      440.0                  20.7                  585.4           550.0            550.0
Devolved to Region                                                   158.3      210.8      259.5      323.6     406.6       639.6                  57.3                  877.8           866.2         1,048.3
Other Ministries
Finance                                -          -          -         1.8        3.1        5.4        9.0      11.2        12.4
Health                                 1.9        3.3       1.8        9.0        6.7       18.8       21.6      27.2        27.6
Home Affsirs                           8.1        7.2       7.4       10.0       13.0        8.1        3.4        5.1       10.1
Agriculture                           20.3       31.1      29.8       36.3       33.2       18.9       27.5       25.9       30.6                                        137.1           122.3            122.3
Culture                                3.1        3.2        3.1        5.0       1.7        3.3        2.b        2.9        5.2
Devolved to Region   1/                -          -         -          -          -          5.2        3.3        5.5        6.9
Manpower Development-                  4.1        5.0        5.2       4.8        6.9        6.2        1.8        9.4       11.1
Labor & Social Welfare                  .7        -         -          1.3        1.8        2.6        3.7        5.4        5.4
Other                                 25.5       17.2      17.6       26.2       31.1       44.2       22.6       32.9       13.1
TOTAL                                   308.7      348.3      396.8     425.4      543.9      691.7      776.4      896.5     1232.3        17.7      37.5                l.600.3
% of Government Recurrent Exp.            20.2      21.3       22.3       19.1       19.5       17.5      20.9       21.4        28.0                                         24.8           26.7              29.9            ta
X of GDP                                  4.14       5.60       4.49      4.20       4.70       5.00       4.70       4.60        5.35                                        5.78            6.23             7.00             -
1/ Previously Central Establishments.
2/  Including Folk Development College.
Source:  Ministries of Finance, National Education and World Bank Group staff estimates.
Projection Methodology:  Alternative A assumes real GDP growth a 67. per annum; Alternatives B and C assume real GDP growth at 4% per annum; also Alternative C allows for a
3.6% per annum real growth in the unit costs of UPE.  For further explanation, refer to the text.
November 1978



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Expenditures on Education and Training in Relation to Total Government Expenditures
(Millions of Shillings)
Current Prices
Approved                Average Annual
Actual                                    Estimate   Estimate      Growth Rates
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   197b/75   l97-576   1976/77    1977 77    1972-76   1)76-77
(%)
RECURRENT
Ministry of Education               245.0     281.3      328.9     172.7      235.6     320.0      357.3     364.4       440.0 o                40
Regional Expenditures                                              158.3      210.8     259.5      323.6      406.6      639.6 )    18.6       4
Other Ministries                     63.7      67.0       67.9      94.4       97.5     112.2       95.5     125.5       152.7       13.1      21.7
1.   Total                              308.7     348.3      396.8     425.4      543.9     691.7      776.4     896.5      1232.3       17.7      37.5
Central Government
Revenue                            1576.9    1683.1    1859.2    2356.6    3022.9    3945.9    3918.5    4562.9         4761.5
2.  Expenditures                       1526.7    1631.4    1780.6    2226.2    2785.0    3961.1    3715.6    4183.2         4400.2       18.6        5.2
CAPITAL
Ministry of Education                29.3       46.3      35.2      34.9       26.1      32.4       92.6      203.9      179.1 )    47.8        -2.9
Regional Expenditures                                                9.6       20.5      44.3       52.8      44.3        61.5 J
Other Ministries                     21.2      25.1       29.1      45.2       34.2      59.7       55.0     134.0       131.2       35.7      -2.1
3.  Total                                50.5      69.6       63.6      89.7       80.8     136.4      200.4     382.2       371.8       43.1      -2.6   1
Central Government
4.  Expenditures                        610.5     829.2      834.4     956.o    1642.2    2225.0    2253.0    3145.0        3860.o       30.4       22.7
TOTAL RECURRENT AND CAPITAL
5. Total Central Government
Expenditures (2+4)              2137.7    2460.4    2635.6    3182.2    4427.2    6186.1    5968.6    7328.2         8260.2       22.7      12.7
6. Total Expenditures on
Education (1+3)                  359.2     417.9      460.4     515.1      624.7     828.1      976.8    1278.7      16o4.1       22.7      25.5
7.  GDP (at factor cost
current prices)                 71460.o    6215.0    8845.0   10130.0   11531.0   13836.0-/ 16534.01  19502.02   23032.0-/    17.1           18.1
6 as a %of 7                          4.8       6.7        5.2       5.1        5.4       6.0        5.9        6.6        7.0
1 as a % of 2                        20.2      21.3       22.3      19.1       19.5      17.5       20.9       21.4       28.0                         K
1/Provisional                                                                                                                                               0
2   Estimated at 6% p.a. real growth (BER) and 12.1% increase in GDP price inflator.                                                                        O
SOURCES: Ministries of Finance and National Education and World Bank Group staff estimates.
November 1978



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
S1TH m)DUCATION PRlOJECT
A tional Hanpower Reauirements bv Skdll Cateaor-r 1975 - 1990 (wage and salarY e4ployment only)
1975 - 1980                              1981 - 1985                               1986 - 1990
A         B        C                   A         a         C                     A          B         C
Agriculture                            140        40       400                 150      100        880                   170       110       1,000
Mining                                  30         30      170                  10       40        220                    20        90         480
Manufacturing                          850        730   11,250                 340      670    10,000                    480       940      14,090
Utilit$es                              480     1,260   15,300                  260    1,540    20,300                    460     2,760      36,360
Construction                           300       210    5,750                  120      320     2,650                    140       370       3,100
Commerce                               190       380    3,900                   70      350     3,500                     90       480       4,750
Transport and                          340       890    6,450                  100      550     3,850                    120       630       4,470
Communications
Finance                                390       790    2,700                  180    1,030     3,330                    300     1,740       5,640
Public Administra-                   7,660    46,100   28,180               1,920   19,400    11,600                  2,190    22,130       13,250
tion and Services
Total Revised Estimate          10,380    50.430   74.100                3.150   24.000    56.330                  3.970    29 250       83.140
Of whichs current vacancies      3,550      5,281   10,806
citisenization         1,918        845    3,329
Government Manpower                   8,276    28,556   58,892
Development Plan
(1975-80)
Source: Based on the Government Manpower Development Plan (1975-80) and World Bank Group staff estimates of sectoral growth trends to 1990.
November 1978



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Aditional Reauirements of Accountancy Skills and Craftsman of Skill Category C  19(5-1990
(wa,e and salary eamloyment only)
1975 - 1980                                   1981 - 1985                                   1986 - 1990
Accountancy Skills                         Aecountane y Skills                           Accountancy Skills
Profes-   Sub-Pro-  Techni-  Craftsmen    Profmes-   Sub-Pro-  Techni-   Craftsmen    Profes-   Sub-Pro-  Techni-  Craftsmen
dional   fessional   cian       (C)         sionul   fessional   cian         (C)         sional   fesuional   cian        (C)
(A)        (B)       (C)                    (A)        (B)       (C)                      (A)        (B)       (C)
Agriculture                        5          10      125         70           5        20        220          170          5         20        250         190
Mining                             5           5       15        100           0         5         10          150          5         10         30         350
Manufacturing                     65         155    1,070      7,410          30        80        730        7,420        40         110      1,030      10,470
Utilities                         25          55      180    14,170           15        40        170      19,020         20          70        300      34,100
Construetion                      50         100      305      1,020         20         65        280       1,920         20          70        320       2,200
Commerce                          30         185      640        390          10        90        430         400         20         120        580         540
Transport and Coiiuni-            25          60      965      2,750          10        20        470        1,780         10         30        550       2,100
cations
Finance                           65         140      380        280         30         90        330         410         50         150        570         690
Public Administration            260        620    2,250      8,180          70        190        810       3,610         80         220        920       4,110
and Other Services
Total Revised Estimate       530       1.330    5 930    34 370          190        600     3 450       34 880        250         800      4.550     54,750
Of which& current vacancies 180          421    1,498      2,663
citizenisation      89        228       695      1,738
Government Manpower          474       1,191    5,351    31,138
-  Development Plan                                                                                                                                                1
(1975-80)                                                                                                                                                      0
{-
Source: Based on the Government Manpower Development Plan (1975-80) and World Bank Group staff estimates of sectoral growth trends to 1990.
November 1978



- 36 -                      Annex 1, Table 6
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Sixth Education Proiect
MEETING MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MODERN SECTOR-!
(1975-1990)
skill level     skill level      skill level
C               B                A
At 1976 level education intakes
Intake p.a. (1976 level)                17,950            8,500            1,280
Passing                                  14,360           6,800            1,020
Continuing to next level                -8,500           -1,280              --
Failures from higher levels             +1,700             +260              0
Annual skill output implied               7,560            5,780           1,020
Annual requirement (1975-1990)           13,350            6,480           1,090
Manpower surplus (+)/deficit (-)            -40%            -10%              -5%
At 1980 level education intakes
Intake p.a. (1980 level)                22,750           12,440            1,680
Passing                                 18,200            9,950            1,340
Continuing to next level               -12,440           -1,680              --
Failures from higher levels             +2,490             +340              0
Annual skill output implied               8,250           8,610            1,340
Annual requirement (1975-1990)           13,350           6,480            1,090
Manpower surplus (+)/deficit (-)            -40%            +30%             +20%
1/ An overall pass rate of 80% is assumed.
Source: Annual intakes are based on information from the 1976 Manpower Report to the
President.
Skill level C refers to Form 1 intakes or equivalent four-year programs (including
vocational training) which are expected to grow at 6.1% per annum over 1976-80.
Skill level B refers to Form 5 intakes and equivalent level preservice training which
grew at 16.1% per annum over 1972-76 and is expected to grow at 10% per annum
through 1980.
Skill level A refers to university or equivalent level training which is expected
to grow at 7% per annum over 1976-80 based on recent trends.
November 1978



TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
VOCATIONAL INSTRUCTORS AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINERS
Estimated Needs and Supply
(1980-1990)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1990
NVTP NEED
Vocational Training Centers              65      105       110       130       140       150       159       201
Company Training Centers                 20       24        30        35        42        50        53        67
Evening Courses                          40       80       120       180       200       200       212       269
NVTP STAFF REQUIREMENTS                 125       209      260       345       382       400       424       537
Stock                             100       120       138       154       170      193       202       578                   L
Stock less 10% Attrition           90       108       124       140      153       172       181       520
Accessions                         30        30        30        30        30        30      130       130
New Stock                         120       138       154       170       183       202       311       650
Shortage/Surplus                   -5       -71      -106      -175     -199      -198      -113      +113
OTHER NEED
Mission Trade Schools                   50        53       56        60        63        67        71        90
TAPA Technical Schools                  80       85        90        96       102       108       114       153
Post-Primary Technical                  50        53       56        56        63        67        71        90
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OTHER SURPLUS/SHORTAGE               -180      -191      -202      -212      -228      -242      -256      -333
TOTAL SURPLUS                        -185      -262      -308      -387      -417      -440      -369      -220                 m
Source: NVTP Data
World Bank Group staff estimates.
November 1978



REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Sixth Education Project
ACCOUNTANCY SKILLS: EXPECTED ANNUAL OUTPUTS BY YEAR AND BY INSTITUTION
Expected Annual Output                             Annual Requirements
Level/Institution                               1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982   1975i-g0    1982-Q
Professional
IFM                                         --        --         10        13       16        18        23        25
IDM                                         --        --       --        --           2         2        2          2
Overseas                                    --        --        --       --        --        --           2         4
Nyegezi Social Training Center              --        --        --       --          10       10        10        10
Total for Employment                        --        --         10        13        28        30        37       41      60          100
(NBAA estimate)                           (41)      (40)        (65)     (67)      (70)      (73)
Subprofessional
IFM                                          __       --         20        24       29        34        34        39
IDM                                          23       107        65       83        59        74        74        90
University of D'Salaam                       24        24        24        24        24        24        24        24
Coop. and Zonal Colleges                     40        49        39        39        39       39        39        39
Nyegizi Social Training Center               24        24        24        24        24        24        24        24
Dar School of Accountancy                   --        --         64        64        64       64        64         64
Private                                      24        24        32        40        40        40        40       40
Wastage from higher levels                  --        --          5         7         8         9        12        13
Minus candidates for higher levels          -41       -68       -82       -92       -86      -92       -93      -100
Total for Employment                         94       160       191       213      201       216       218       233    171)         149
(NBAA estimate)                             (43)    (106)    (160)    (168)    (195)    (182)                                                        w
Technician Level
Cooperative College                          24        48        48        48        48       48        48         48
St. Joseph's C. C.                           24        48        48        48       48        48        48        48
College of Business Education                84        66        90        88      120       120       120       120
Shinyanga.Commercl l Institute              --         18        68        68        68       68        68        68
Dar School of Accountancy                   --        --        254       384       384       384       384       384
DSA Mbeya (storekeeping)                    --        --         68        68        68       68         68        68
Wastage from higher levels                   34        57        67        75        70        75        75        80
Minus candidates for higher levels          -68      -114      -134      -150     -280      -300      -300      -300
Total for Employment                         98       123       509       629       526       511      511        511    870        1,313
(NBAA estimate)                              (0)       (0)    (164)    (203)    (280)       (280)                               _
Source:  Enrollment and expected output figures obtained directly from IFM, IDM, Dar School of Accountancy,
Shinyanga Commercial Institute; other enrollment and output information from various Manpower
Reports to the President and World Bank Group staff estimates.  The 1982-90 requirements represent 1975-90
requirements net of the 1975-82 expected supply.
November 1978



TANZANIA
PROPOSED SIXTR EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ENROLLMENT AND ESTIMATED PR0JECT COSTS
(in T.Shg. and US$ 000's)
(T.Sha.8.00 - uS$1.00)
No. of
Student        Boarding       Staff         Total Area                        Building     Construction                           Eqoipmnao    Total                     Adr.iistrotioo
Places         Flaces         Houses        io H2 of            Site    Acodr=ic &              Staff                                 &       Physical    TCchoical             and             Totol
N_,            P-Folet Itoms                   Add  Final    Add  Final    Add   Fioal  Nan Construction   Work    Co-s,enal          Boarding   Ho-iang    Total    Furniture   Vehiclas    Facilitirs   Assistnnao       MonitorinR       T. Shn.      Us$
Vocational TroininR Canters
1.        Tango                                  -    300      150    150     15     15            2,422          N36       428         2,464     ',678     5,570         557          764        7,727                                     7,727         966
2.        MuRaza                                 -    300      150    150     12     15            2,422          939       481         2,771     3,009     6,261         626          764        8,590                                     8,590       1,074
Instructor Trainitn Center
3.        Norogoro                             160    160     160    160       5     5             4,237        2,596     4,554         4,914       914    10,382       1,038       2,472        16,488                                    16,488       2,061
Technical Secondary Schoals
4.        Ifunda                                 -    760      160    700       -      -           1,074          313          -        3,126          -    3,126         353          136        3,928                                     3,928         491
5.        Moshi                                  _    720      160    660       -     -            1,074          297          _        2,960          -     2,968        337          136        3,738                                     3,730         467
6.        Mtvora                                 _    640      160   5B0        -     -            1,074          305          -        3,050          -     3,050        345          136        3,836                                     3,836         480
7.       TCngo                                   -    660      160    600       -     -            1,074          278          -        2,781          -     2,781        318          136        3,513                                     3,513         439
School of Accountancy
8,       DBres  olanIE                         560  1,015     428   B00        22    22            9,312        3,458     8,340        10,931     3,780    23,051       1,449        1,340       29,298                                    29,298       3,662
MANTEP
9.        Bagamoyo                                - 2.768        -      -        -     -               -             -       750             -         -       750         200       3,461         4,411          440                        4,851        606
10.      froinct Adinistrattion and
-oaitocina and Study                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.066         5.066         633    .
Bose Cost of Itens 1-10
(Banad on Nove=ber 1978 prices)        720  7,323   1,528  3,800       57    57          22,689         9,022    14,553        33,005    10,381    57,939       5,223       9,345        81,529          440         5,066         87,035      10,879
CoaftinaRnoin
Physical Increase                                                                                         10/.       107          107.      10%        10%         5%           5                         57.            5%
Physi-l Inorsos-                                                                                         902      1.455        3.301     1.038      5.794        261          467        7.424           22            253         7.699         962
Sob-Tatal                                                                                               9,924    16,008        36,306    11,419    63,733       5,484        9,812        08,953         462          5,319        94,734      11,841
Prioe ITorrane                                                                                            36%        36%          36%       36%        36%        33%          33%                       20%            32%
Price Incrense                                                                                          3 573      5.763       13.070     4.111    22.944       1.810        3.238       31.565           92          1.702        33.359       4.170
Project Total                                                                                           13,497   21,771        49,376    15,530    86,677       7,294       13,050       120,518         554          7,021        128,093     16,011
(Including contig.enc.es sad tanes)
Forrign Exchanga Co.pocrut
In %                                                                                                    48%        48%          48%       48%        48%        23%          90%                       80%            65%
En T. Shi.                                                                                            6,479    10,450        23,700     7,455    41,605        1,678      11,745        61,507         443          4,564         66,514  or  52%
In U5S                                                                                                  810      1.306        2.963        932     5,201         210       1,468         7,689          55            570                     8,314    t
Ranron: Wald Bank Group astff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
N_o_ebat 1978



- 40 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                  Annex  1,  Table  10
Page 1 of 2
NOVEMBER 1978
GNP/   % GNP  :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                    :PRI. :AV.PRI.   1                      SEC
I   :CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-   P RI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STu- :HIGHER:
AT     TO EDU. :  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY'    :ENROLL:TION           :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET1  (PUBLIC:OEVCTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION  :FROM PRI. :RATIO   PER  :RATIO0
POP. :PRICES: EXP.          To           TO:      I (% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH. ITEACHI  TO GNP/ :TO SEC.: NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.:  (USS): ONLY)         EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI. IADULTS): (%)  :CYCLE(%):ER             CAPITA       (5         (%)  :ER   :  M
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7.5F 4.870F        5. 3Y   8.5EY  24Y  51Y  1 51    99        98        930      26D       2.00      990       51D      19D   16 .BSY
C!7-4T'.        75  27. R  7,1 q9       7.1    1 C.7    3fl   37   26    99        99        97       1 9       2.0        99       90       10e     1 6.00
GERMANY F. REP. 75  61 .9  6,670        5.0    1 0. 2   31EY 64** 26EY  99         90        99       23EV      . . .     99Y       84Y'    22C   20 .26Y
JAPAN           75 11 1.6  4 ,450       4.3E  20.79    4OUY 37UY IIUY  99          990       99C      25        2. OB     99C       95XY   20C   24 .69Y
NETHERLANDS   75  1 3. 7  5.425         9.4   22.40    2 1   39   25    99         95        95       29        2.0        97       80       20      12.00        
NEW ZEALAND   73   3.1F 4,2809          5.2    . ..     39   24   29    99         99        99       26        .          99       67       19     24.900
NOR WAY         74   4.OF 6,760F        7.0    15.2    491'  22Y  13Y   99        1O2XY      98       20        1.9        99       9DXY    14      21.31Y'
SWEDEN          74   B.2F 8,i5OF        7.9Y'  13.91'   38V  13Y  137   99         990       99C      17C       . .       9OC       85C      100   30.OOC
U.K.            72  56.OF 3,760F        6.3    12.7     26   39   22    99         99        ...      26        2.0        ...      63       17     11.00
U.S.A.          76 214.6  7,950         5.4    15.8    ...   72-* 28    999        99        99       22        ...        99       93       19      24.00
EUROPE
GREECE          76   9.1  2,590         2.6    10.4     37   26   21    969        99        920      31       2.0         TOE      s0       27     15.00
IRELAND         74   3.1F 2,390F        5.1   13.90    43Y'  41Y  14Y   98        109EV      99A      35       . ..       95A       65XY    19      15.47Y
PORTUGAL        75   9.6  1,570         4.4    17.9     52   27   13       70      98        55       21      3.0         70        29       14      7.60
ROrIANIA        75  21.2  1,240         4.0     6.4     36    19   13    99        IOIX      ...      21       ...        98        49      22      10.00
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2,750F    2.4B  15.2A   49Y  22Y  15Y   94A    115EV               ...      35A      ...         ...      78XY   30       17.68Y'
AFRICA
ALGEPIA         77  16.9      990G      7.5    14.3FY  42   ...   21       35      79X       45       39        4.0       55        26X      13      6.00
SEN'IN          74   3.1F   130F    7.2N  36.OY   470  230  100   110              44XY      708      53Y     25.09       43B       11EV    398    0.74Y
BOTSWANA        76   0.7    410         4.0    19.2     53   20   14        3      72X       95       32        3.0       60        12      22       0.30
BURUINDI        74   3.7F   11OF        2.5    19.9Q   47R  41R  12R   10          20E       30?      38       10.0        14        2X      18      1.0
CA-MEROON       73   7.4P   230F        5.9   20.0      3EV  297  1 7Y    ..       74        ...      SIOY   ......                  9      23CY   0.90CY
C.A.R.          74    1.SF   220F       3.00  17.00   56B  198 ..          ...    79XV       25       69Y      . ..        16        8EV    279V   0.21Y
CHAD            75   4.0      120       3.0    10.0     78   22  ..        15      29XBY   30         65BY    15.0          8        2XBY  30        0.018Y
CONGO(S)        74    1.3F   SlOF    6.0    19.3        40   32   21    50?    133X          63       63        6.0       49        33X     22       3.40
EGYPT           76  38.2      310       S.9N   ...      30   32   25    44         76        B0       31        .         79        45      20       12.00
ETHIOPIA        76  29.0      100       2.8   15.8      29   25   10        7      21       . ..      50        ...       63         8      34        .
GABON           74   O.5F 2,540F        5.00  20.60    250   V0  lID    . ..   bOOY          25C      46C       5.0     . ISA       31Y      21C     0.297
GAMBIA          76   0.5       1 70     3.3    11.5    46   25       6    10       27        90       33       ...         92       13       25       ..
GHANA           74   9.9F   5909        ...    19.7Y   43Y  22Y  20YQ  . ..    6OXY          626      30Y      . ..        148      3SXY    16CY   1 .09Y
GUINEA          76   4.7      18OP      4.34Q  ..       30   31   so    . ..    30X          64       45        12F        86       13X      26      4.00
IVORY COAST   74   6.7F   540F    6.3   24.7            38V  37Y  18Y    98        86XY      57A      45Y'    ...          ...      17XY   25C       1.64Y
KENYA           76  13.9      240       5.9   26.0      67   23   10    40         80?       60?      34        6.0        30       16       27      1.0
LESOTHO         75    1.2     190      12.OP  23.0      49    18   20    40        85        s0       52        7.0ON     61        10      26       1.00
LIBERIA         75    1.5    410        2.4    13.2     27    15   20    73        S8        ...      35        2.0        ...      12      26       1.IOAY
MAnIAGASCAR     74   S.AF   200F        1.32  77 1    91 24   25    40             68X       30       63       15.0        48        SE      26      1.00
MlALAWI         76   5.2       140     .2.4   10.0      42    16   23    25        56EX      17       52        2.4        70        4EX    20       0.26CY
MALI            75   5.7F    9OP        4.2M  33.GF   4SF  37F  I9F   lOF    22XF            . ..     4BF      9.5F        SOP       6X      21       ..
MAURITANIA      71    1.3P   320F    4.1Y  20.GOY.I...D.. 1A                        17XV     ...      22A       .. .       ...       3XV    24A8      .
MAURITIUS       76   O.9L   690         4.7    12.1     50   26      6    80C      94        99       24        4.5         90      45       32      1.50
MOROCCO         76  18.2      540       8.1    15.2     399  499  139   28         65X       33       40        .          33       17X      22      4.00
NIGERIA         74  75.OF   34CF    4.10Y' 24.20V   231'  16Y  427    . ..    49EY           . ..     34DY       .         ...      10EV    20CY   0.48Y
RWANDA          73   4.1F    lOOp       3.20  28.00....... 23                      52        . ..     51        .          .         2       13      0.2309
SENEGAL         74   S.OF   390F    4.ONS 22.509  59RY 42RY . ..   boc             53XY      .. .     46CY      ..         ..       lIES    255      2.02Y
SIERRA LEONE  73   3.OF   220OF         3.4    23.4     31   36   30       15?     34X       45       32        4.OE      68        13X      21      0.538Y
SOMALIA         75   3.2      110       3.70  10.80    49Q  16Q  190   507         34X       86       35       10.0       60         3       15      0.10
SUDAN           76  15.9    290         4.5    19.9    46   36   16    20          34        74       33        3.8       33        14      24        1.24
SWAZILAND       75   0.5    470         3.8     --    38   31   19    s0           73        71       38        3.8        51       24       22      1.00
TANZANIA        76  15.1      180       6.6 1  1 7.49H  429  219  12H   60         93E3      81       49        6.6         6        4X J   19       0.34
TUNISIA         73   5.6F   730F        6.3   23.4      37   43   18    SS         72        81       41        6.0        31       14       21      3.00
UGANDA          75  11.6      230       3.4DY 15.701Y  34EY 4OEY 2297  258         53XY      ...      34EY      .. .       14A       6XCY  21A    0.56Y'
UPPER VOLTA   74   6.OF   11OF    4.0   23.9            59   18      9      SC     14XY      . ..     46Y      18.00       20C       2XY   23C       0.15Y
ZAIRE           76  25.1      140       6.0   22.0      49   26   25       15      86E       44       42X       2.0        41       13E      27      1.O01
ZAMBIA          76   5.1      440       6.8    15.9     54   22   22    39         97X       80       49        7.0        21       16       23      1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS        76   0.2  1,620         8.1   22.1      43   31   16    99        105        99       25        3.0        99       84        20
COSTA RICA      75   2.0      960       5.29  22.79    578  259  128   898    109EV          655      298       3.99       589      52XY   259    17.15Y
DOMINICAN REP.72   4. 7P    720F    3. 0    13.9        42   24   22    51         80        17       54        3.00       63       13.5   24        7.00
EL SALVADOR   75   4,0        460       3.6   23.8      61    5   22       609     650       ...      39CY      . ..       39       13XC   21CY   4.35B?
GUATEMALA       73   6,3F   STOP        1.9    16.0     55   23   14    47          64       26       35        3.0        69        a       25      4.09Y
HAIT-I          76   4.7      200       1.0     9.0     61   21    11    205       2SF       13       56U       3.0        62         4      .. .     0.7
HO~DU R -.     75   2.9    3900        4.20  19.3G   620  15G  190   53            78       30        35       3.0        68        11      17      4.00
JAMAICA         74    2.OF lIl11F       7.1Y  20. 2V    39V  32Y  197   86        111EV      ...      39Y       ...    .   ...      54XY   190       6.680Y
MEXICOD*        75  59.9  1,050         3.10Q 12.CD0  Sl Y  26Y  127    76        112EV      31       46        3.0        63       3SEY    238      8 .979Y
NICARAGUA       74   2. 3F   70OFP    2.5    14.2       61   13   13    57         65        21       37        2.0        93       17       24      7.00
TRINIDAD & T. 76    1.00 1.875E    3.4N  10.69    50E  251  139   900                e1      92       34        2.OQ       49       44       25        ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA         76   5.9      31S5F     5.0    17.5F .... .. 38                     178      290      24        SF         ...       49      180
BRAZIL          75 107.0  1,030         5.0    12.4     429  20E   379  64A    860           ...      27CY      .. .       ...      26G      iSCY   6.00B
CHI LE          75  10.3      990       3.89Y 12.69RY  237  I0Y  SOY    . ..  I11917         ...      357       . ..       .. .     48XY   .. .   16.955Y
COLOMBIA        74  23.6F   580F        3.30Y 21.2DY'  44DY 2207 117   73         105EV      20        33Y      -4. 0      90       36XY    148      6.67Y
ECUADOR         75   7.1      590       3.70  27.70....... 69                     102XY      . ., .   38C       .. .       ...      38EV    14C0       .
GUYANA          74   0.8F   Sl OP       5.BN  14.70   47   35   14    83A    92X             39        33       6.0        19       62X      24      1.00
PARAGUAY        74   2. 6F   580F    1,8    11.0        55    13   22    81         82       26        30       1.9        65        17      12      5.00
PERU            75  15.4      760       4.2DY 21.7DY  407  22Y  15Y   72          111EV      38        390Y    3.0         70       48XV    23DY  14.41Y
URUGUAY         78    2.8  1.300        2.5    15.3     46   34   20    94          93X      ...       24       ...        83        ...     10        .
VENEZUELA       73  1 2.OF 2, 281F      4.6    19.9     309  239  350   77A    61            . ..      33       2.4        . ..     33       .. .   12.6309



-41 -
COMPRATVE  DUCIIO  INICAORS(CONTO)                        Annex  1,  Table  10
~2 of 2
NOVEMBER 1978
--5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ------------- --                          ---5--------
GNP6/   % GNP  IXTOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC I:PRI. :AV.PRI.                                                    1        sEC
I       :CAP ITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC   EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
*      AT    TO EDU.:  EXP.   DFCUaRENT    :ACY         :ENROLL:TIDN       :DENTSISALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLLU
! MARKET: (PUBLIC:IIEVDTED:EXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI. :RATIO :PER  :RATID 
POP. IPRICES: EXP. :  TO   I           TO:       :(% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH. :TEACHI To GNP/ :T0 SEC.    NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YRIMILLS.: (US); ONLY)  :EDU. IPRI. SEC. HI. :AOULTS): (%)  :CYCLE(%):ER                  CAPITA  :()            () :ER         ()
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3    180G    1.9   11.6    47   19   15    12               29X      69       37       3.00        62       ex    17       1.00
BANGLADESH    73  78.6F'   9Cr        1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y'  230    56X            ...      490      ...        ...      23XD   28        .
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  16.OF   9301F    3.2   14.0    28   41   22    82             98C       94       40      14.0        54       61C    26    20.OOCC
INDIA          75 608.1    140        2.6VY .......... 295    65XY                        ...      43A      ...        ...     29XY   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA      74 i32.IF   22CF    3.9F  11.CF   69   21   10    6CR    79X               43       30       2.0G      52        19K    14      2.00
IRAN           73  33.4F 1,660F    3.3   12.6    505  188  125   50             77        74A      32       5.09      BOA      24       32     4.32CY
IRAQ           75  11.1  1,250        6.7C  16.3CR           .26C    93XY                 ...      22       ..         ...     3511Y   26C    6.47Y'
~JORDAN        73   2.7F   4BCF    7.0    8.9    52"  15'  2,1    59            91K       76       38       5.0       84       sox    22       4.00
KOREA          75  35.3    560        2.9   16COR   65   33    2    920   104X            95       52       3.5       77       55K      38     7.8
LEBANON        72    lI-F I 070F    3.5   16.0    39   40   10    Bs            66        65       19       2.0       63       26U    25    23.00
MALAYSIA        76  12.8    560       6.7   26.0    42   34   1s    60C    95             93       32       3.7        78       48      28      3.00
NEPAL           76  12.56F   110OF    1.1   10.0    29   20   41    19          59        28       31       2.3       64        14      24     0.8
OMAN            72   0.8F' 2,300F    1.7N   3.8    96    -   -          20       24X      99       33       7.0        ...      0.4X    9        .
PAKISTAN       75  69.2    160        1.6   16.2    45   25   183   21          47X       50       39       2.0        ...      17K    18      6.00
PAPUA N.G.    75   2.6    470         5.6   16.1    39I  16   24    32          57?  - 73P         31      11.0       90        12X?   14      0.90?
PHILIPPINE6   74  42.2F'  3801F    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87    104X               ...      34      15.0        ...     465      ...   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.31' 2.45Cr    2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39Y  17Y   75A   109KY    72A              31Y      .. .      99A      44XY   24       7.68Y
SYRIA           75   7.4    720       3,6   6.9       39   25   26    53        89        70       35       2.0       92       45       21    12.00
THAILAND        73  41.9F'  35Cr    4.ONF' 20.7F'  65    9   15    82            87X      93C      32       3.0 U    91C       21X    24       2.00
TURKEY          73  40.2F'  900F    5.6CY 20.6CY.... ...                  ..    85Y       ...      34Y'      .         ...      24Y'   27DY   5.83Y
YEMEN          73   5.91'   20Cr    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10             15X      16       36       5.        75         2K    19      0.05BY
YEMEN P.D.R.  76   1.7    280         6.6     .       57   28    8    ii         e9K      48       30       5.0       94        21X    16      1.00
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES!                  82    79       77   72   73    76        84        59       84         56      63       83      s0        74
RANGE:                             (0.5-  (3.8-  (25- (5-. (2-   (3-         (14-     (13-      (19-      (1.9-    (7-      (.4-   (9-       (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   98)    133X)   99             69)    25.0 )   99)          80  )  39)   23.0)
OUARTILESIUPPER                     5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73          94       76       46          7       83       36      25      7.0
MEDIAN:                  3.9   16.3    45   23   18    so          78       55       36          4       63       17      23      2.3
LOWER:                   3.0   12.4    38   18   12    20          53       30       32          3      43         9      20       .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE               A-1970 OR BEFORE           M.CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL DR NEGLIGIBLE B-1 971                        N-GOP
7  QUESTIONABLE                    C.1972                     P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                  COLUMNS:l AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0.1 973                        OsCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                       OR IBRD MISSIONS
.*  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           6.1974                     I-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                3 TO 14 1890 MISSIONS
*.UNDER REVIEW                    F.19I                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
0.1116                     '1'.EXCLUDING CINTRAL GOVT.                                STATISTICAL
11-Fiscal yo&s 107A/77    Ul-PUBLIC ONLY                                              YIEARBOOK
I-CaI4adm-w0   1916       V.INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
J-Celeedar year 1977      X-INCLUDING OVERAGE0 STUDENTS
public   d jpriwetm      Y.UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OP VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE NAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY By THE BANK MISSIONS FROMA GOVERNMAENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES DR DATA PROM UN'ESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. To CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND,
(1)IEDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES. ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2):PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION.AT THE FIRST'LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM, COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITIONJ OF 'LITERATE' H:AS BEE11 FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4) PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATICNq(COLS.3..4-AND 5I"REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
(5)-ENROLLMENT RATIOSI(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENr FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 42 -
Annex 1, Table 11
TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ 000's)
1/                                Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter            Disbursement          Disbursement              Balance
1                                                                12,000
2                      -                      -                  12,000
3                     30                     30                  11,970
4                     30                     60                  11,940
5                     30                     90                  11,910
6                     60                    150                  11,850
7                    200                    350                  11,650
8                    300                    650                  11,350
9                    500                  1,150                  10,850
10                    700                  1,850                  10,150
11                  1,000                  2,850                   9,150
12                  1,300                 4,150                    7,850
13                  1,000                 5,150                    6,850
14                  1,000                  6,150                   5,850
15                  1,200                  7,350                   4,650
16                  1,300                 8,650                    3,350
17                    900                 9,550                    2,450
18                    700                10,250                    1,750
19                    600                10,850                    1,150
20                    400                 11,250                     750
21                    300                11,550                      450
22                    200                 11,750                     250
23                    200                 11,950                      50
24                     50                12,000
1/ From date of Credit Effectiveness
Source:   World Bank Group staff
November 1978



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1978
AGRICULTURE                         AGRICULTURE
TRAINING INSTITUTE                  TRAINING INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION                                                                                                                                          0            c
SEOTR  SHOSECCHNICALETIOCOLILEG                                   XPRE   N     TECHIA OLG
VOCATIONAL TRAINING ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    VOAIOALISTUCO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION ~ ~ ~    ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     TEHNCA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS                                        INDUSTRIAL
EXPEI3fNCE
PRIMARY           I E                        ~          ~~~~~~SECONDARY                                     UNIVERSITY
GENERAL EDUCATION3                                     4                   7E,                                                   1         5
NF4                        ~~~~~~ARITS, SCIENCE. SOCIAL SCIENCES.    (MEDICAL
MEDICINE. AGRICULTURE. ETC.          INTERNSHIPI
MANAGEMENT AND                                                                                                                    TECHNICIANS    FESSIONALS                          PROFESSIONALS
ACCOUNTANCY TRAINING                                                                                                                   Ctf.t                        V     E
au     Dipo          EXPERIENCE                                                                               P
C-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
NURSES, AND                                       ~~~~~~~~ASSISTANT
RURAL MED ICA L AIDES                      MEDICAL ASSISTANTS                                                  MEDICAL OFFICERS
HEALTH EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                              9 YEARS EXPERIENCE
NURSES GRADE A
- --- --- ---- -- - ---- --  ---- - -- ----   -- --- ---- -- - ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- - -  - --- --- ---  --- ---- --- --  - -   - ---- - -- ----  -- --- ---- -   - ---- ---   ... ... .... ... .... ... ... . .  - --- -   -- --- ---- --- ---- --- --4
TEACHER TRAINING                                                                           PRIMARY TEACHERS                            PRIMARY TEACHERS            LOWER SECONDARY
G-ad.C                   -Grad. A                                    TEACHERS
Tlrogh  pa. an                       Throgh UPgrading
F.LE. - Pr-may Leaving E-aination,
..NF4 - National School Certificate
NF6  - National High.r School Certifi-ate                                                                               -dB.-02R
'Th. Gov-erment. anu.ced in 1974 that Form 6 outputs woold not obtain direct enty into
U,nivrsty, but would enter employment for an .nspecified period before bein,g con,sidered for
-ndergradc-te studi-s
Sour-- World Et-k Group Stuff
July 1978



TANZANIA EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
COMPARATIVE DATA
FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
1961, 1971 & 1976
KEY TO FIGUIRES                                                                                                                                  KEY TO FIGURES
1976    1971    1961                                                                                                                           1961     1971      1976
UNIVERSITY
1I" Y-,        ~                    814     624       70                                                                                                                               6     76        60
SECONDARY                         1,591    1,240     251                                                                                                                              25      196     265
FORMS 6
1,562    1,354    211                                                                                                                              25     264      301
4                         6,360   5,274   1,121                                                                                                                             482    1,770   2,346
3                         6,614    5,375   1,540                                                                                                                            548   1,947   2,857
2                    6,748   5,426   2,514                                                                                                                            1,019   2,197   2,673
1                        5,742    5,554   2,967                                                              _                                                                     2,016 .  . 7
PR                          46 99 1712          46: * i E   56,779
Vl9*.106i.';,401106                      3  256               63480
106066  ..       :         63300                30                   73. 454
1 171 1168    ..'2 39        655157              30,239  5550       :.. ..65680
137.130       .         89016       65,553               74,787  696       if:       :   03. 169
236,305                                                                6799947               4134    673191A1.::::...,~:.:o.:::x:.:;                           2
270,424                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~1 019~  72,773                46613    79 6.z;::.
260      252      224       196      168      140       112       64        56       28        0        28       56        64       112      140       166       196      224       252
BOYS                                   ENROLLMENT NUMBERS IN THOUSANDS                                       GIRLS
SECTORAL PLANNING UNIT
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
WorId Bank -19115



- 45 -
Annex 1
TANZANIA                                                                         Chart 3
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Base Cost 1/1  2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24
US$000s   1      2  3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4 1   2  3    4
Quarters
I. Civil Works
Vocational Training Centers
1.  Tanga                         801     D -                                      G
2.  Mwanza                        900     0        T   X                           G.
3. Instructor Training Center   1.622                                                  L T       X                                    CG
Morogoro
Technical Secondary Schools
4.  Ifunda                        430                  -         T                               G
5.  Moshi                         408                 iD  =               _G
6.  Mtwana                        419                                 T   X
7.  Tanga                         382                                T   X                            G
8. School of Accountancy                  D                                    X                                            G
Dar es Salaam               3.314                  _                                                              I _      I   I_
9.  BagamoVo                        94    D        T T   X   _   _   _   _   _   G .
Total I                          8.370
II. Furniture
1. School of Accountancy                                         L                      T        M
Dar es Salarn                 130                                                          I
2. Instructor Training Center                                    L                      T        m
Morogoro                      181
3. All Remaining Institutes       342    L                  T         M 
Total 11                          653
Ill. Equipment and Vehicles
1. School ofAccountancy                                               LT                              I      I I
Oar vs Salaam                 309
2. Instructor Training Center             0T 
Morogoro                      161
3. All Remaining Institutes       691      L                     T T
Total III                        1.168
IV. Technical Assistance
MANTEP
Bagamoyo
12man/months                  55                   3   3   3
V. Pro-investment Study               50              0
VI. Project Administration0                   0
Monitorinkg and Evaluation        583                                                                                              
Base Cost I to VI              10.879
(Nov. 19781
Contingencies                  5.132
Project Cost                  16.011
LEGEND:
D -  Architectural design and tender documentation   M  -  Defects liability period
G  - Guaranty                                      I -  Delivery and Installation
T  - Tender period and contracts award             0  -  Staffing, monitoring and study
X -  Construction Period                           L -  Preparation of equipment and furniture lists
1/ Starts from date of Credit Effectiveness
Source: World Bank Group Staff
July 1978                                                                                                                     World Bank -19114



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports related to the Sector
Al. Development, Employment and Equity Problems in Tanzania,
Jaspa-ILO, 1977
A2. Annual Manpower Report to the President, 1976
A3. Report of Government For East African Consultative Group Meeting
on Tanzania, 1977
B.   Reports related to the Project
Bl. Vocational Training Needs, Government of Tanzania, 1976-1985
B2. Management Development in Tanzania, Government of Tanzania, 1975
B3.  Sixth IDA Education Project Proposals, Government of Tanzania,
Vols. I-II, 1978
B4. Manpower Requirements and Training in Accountancy in Tanzania
(National Board of Accountants and Auditors) January 1975
B5. Government Statement on the Management Training Study of 1975,
Government of Tanzania, August 1976
B6. Existing Facilities for Training Craftsmen in Tanzania--Mainland
(National Vocational Training Program)
C.   Working papers and tables
Cl. Architectural and Educational Working Papers
C2. Socio-Economic, Enrollment and Financial Working Papers



TANZANIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY_INDICATORS FOR SUPERVISION
Reference to
Appraiaal                                                     Actions
Documents             Expenditure        Disbursement          Taken           Comments
A.  PHYSICAL FACILITIES
1. Architectural/Engineering
Design, Tenders
2. Civil Works
3. Furniture Lists, Tenders,
Delivery
4. Equipment, Vehicles,
Tenders, Delivery                             ________
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Mantep, Bagamoyo
C.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND)
MDNITORING
1. PPS Staffing and Cost                      _,_,___
2. Pre-Investment Study
3. Monitoring and Evaluation
D.  EDUCATIONAL ASPECTS
1 ITC Morogoro
a. Curriculum tevelopment
b. Staff Recruitment
2. Dar-es-Salaam School of Accountancy
a. Staff Recruitment
b. Pass Rate on NBAA Exams
3, MANTEP
a. Staff Recruitment and Development
b. Status of Training Activities
Source: World Bank Group staff
Date : November 1978






IBRD 13657R
X3S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
$~~~~~~~AGG  /    a B ;T   MA2 GA
MS5 <>/4  A B)0  R  j'KSG"~wn;   o
~~~'  Kiod     If  N Y   ) 9A N G   RA Lak  -ZNIA 
(\   K o nd BO G  KohA amaNIk  OD 0          S   A^
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  Moogn /AWC  ES SA0sLAXpESAAM
____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  EP ,(Z~~4~J 
.  9 ZA.E,- '\;<;>  QX)umbg M B~~~~~4f-  > <     OdUe et   &  <8
td~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt



