Document of
The World Bank
FILE, COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2982-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL PESQUERO Y PORTUARIO, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR
PORT DEVELOPMENT PREPARATION
March 5, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating;
it fluctuated around Mex$22.60 to the US dollar from mid 1977 to
the end of 1980. On February 20, 1981, the peso traded at 23.20 per
US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BANPESCA      -  National Bank for Fisheries and Ports
(Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A.)
CECADE        -  Development Training Center
(Centro de Capacitacion para el Desarrollo)
CPD           -  Coordinating Office for Development Projects
(Coordinacion de Proyectos de Desarrollo)
FONDEPORT     -  Trust Fund for Land Management in Industrial Ports
(Fondo de Desarrollo Portuario)
IDB           -  Inter-American Development Bank
OM            -  Department of Port Construction, SCT
(Obras Maritimas)
OP            -  Department of Port Operations, SCT
(Operaciones Portuarias)
PEMEX          -  Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
SAHOP         -  Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SCT           -  Secretariat of Communications and Transport
(Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PORT DEVELOPMENT PREPARATION
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A. (BANPESCA)
Guarantor:             United Mexican States
Amount:                US$14 million equivalent
Terms:                 Fifteen years, including three years of grace, and
interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:          Consulting services for the planning, study and design
of industrial port development at Altamira, Lazaro
Cardenas, Laguna de Ostion and Salina Cruz. Development
of these ports would support the Government's objectives
of decentralizing economic activity and growth to areas
outside the central plateau and providing domestic
industries with direct access to international maritime
transport. The risks are that there may be disagreement
among the various agencies concerned with the industrial
port program on the timing and scope of investments or
the proposed developments at each port. The Bank could
play a useful role in helping reconcile differences,
should they occur.
Cost of Project:                               Local        Foreign       Total 1/
(in millions of US$ equivalent)
10.0         14.0          24.0
(Annex IV presents a breakdown of the cost of studies
envisaged under the project).
Sources of Financing:                          Local        Foreign       Total
(in millions of US$ equivalent)
Government Resources    10.0             -           10.0
IBkD                       -           14.0         14.0
Total                10.0         14.0          24.0
1/   Net of Mexican taxes on consultant services.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Disbursements:         IBRD Fiscal Year         1981          1982         1983
(in millions of US$ equivalent)
Annual                    2.0          6.0           6.0
Cumulative                  -          8.0          14.0
Economic
Rate of Return:        Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:                None prepared since the proposed loan is for preinvest-
ment costs.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO NACIONAL PESQUERO Y PORTUARIO, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR PORT DEVELOPMENT PREPARATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A. (BANPESCA), as financial
agent for the Government with the guarantee of United Mexican States, for the
equivalent of US$14 million for Port Development Preparation. The loan would
bear interest at 9.6 percent per annum and would have a repayment period of
15 years, including 3 years of grace.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now completing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and equilibrium in the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP
growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than
5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the
peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. The land reform was largely implemented in the
late thirties and while further land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as the parcels of land allocated were small, the soil often quite arid
and benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance scant.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Rainfed Agriculture Development Project, P-2941-ME of December 30, 1980.



- 2 -
Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year
by the mid-1970s, also made social equity difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's
sustained economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing
labor force in productive employment, and by the 1970s some 50 percent of the
labor force was either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly
unemployed.
5.        Policies to remedy this situation, undertaken in the first half of
the seventies, were somewhat self-defeating. As a result, by the mid-1970s
Mexico experienced increasing public sector deficits, inflation, large balance
of payments deficits, capital flight and a marked slowdown in the real rate of
growth of GDP, which dropped to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate and let the peso float. Following the devaluation by
80 percent, and a related plan of economic stabilization, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Administration which took over in December 1976 inherited
a difficult situation. High inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing
foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a
need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also called for more
expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment
was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases, and more
effective cooperation with the private sector were important parts of the
Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 per-
cent in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost
29 percent in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of
payments peaked at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined
to US$1.9 billion (equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil
prospects and increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in
imports reflecting both a decisive reduction in protectionism and the growing
demand for capital and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the
economy depended. The current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or
3.2 percent of GDP) in 1978 and further to US$5.2 billion (about 4.3 percent



- 3 -
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered. GDP growth was about 7 percent in 1978 and
8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in 1976.
9.        The growth record for 1980 continued to be favorable and GDP is
estimated to have increased at almost 8 percent. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments was much higher than anticipated due to continued
expansion of imports (mostly capital and intermediate goods and foodstuff)
and is estimated to be US$6.6 billion (about 4 percent of GDP). Despite the
substantial inflow of imported goods, strict domestic credit restrictions,
generally adequate lending rates, modest increases in real wages, coupled with
substantial productivity increases, inflation has been higher than anticipated.
This is essentially because of expansionary policies, with investments increas-
ing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. A shortage of
essential consumer goods and construction materials, aggravated by the inade-
quacy of the transport system to handle distribution of domestically produced
goods along with increasing imports, has contributed to the price increases.
The increase in the consumer price index in 1980 is estimated to have been
around 28 percent.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in controlling
inflation may come from the wage area. The agreed increase in the minimum
wage for 1980 was about 21 percent and came after three consecutive years of
decline in real wages. The fact that in the course of 1980 inflation increased
more rapidly than the expected 20 percent has caused serious concern among the
trade unions. Bargaining of new wage contracts has been based on substantially
higher percentage increases than the one implied in the minimum wage adjustment,
and the increase in the minimum wage for 1981 will likely assume an inflation
rate for the year of at least 25 percent.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits during 1981. The need to expand public
investment in the key infrastructure sectors and to maintain the present level
of programs in the energy sector, leave relatively little scope for signifi-
cant adjustments in the size or structure of public expenditure. At the same
time, the intention of the Government to implement much needed increases in
prices of public goods like gasoline will imply a temporary push upwards to
the price index.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the organizational and natural resources necessary to
attain its ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under  ontrol; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 60 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The recently stated
goal of the Government is to reach a production level of about 3.0 million bbl/
day in 1981, and to more or less maintain it at a level that will accommodate



- 4 -
exports of 1.5 million bbl/day (compared to the 1.1 million bbI/day target
up to September, 1980). The Mexican Government continues to indicate its
unwillingness to exceed this limit for fear of increasingly becoming a classi-
cal "oil producing country" with the economic and social tensions that would
ensue. But even at this production level, the challenge for Mexico is how to
mobilize its resources--its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--
to help resolve its long term development problems. The most serious of these
relate to poverty, unemployment, inadequate growth of agricultural production
in non-irrigated lands, and urban-regional imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.8 million households (25 percent of the total), had
incomes of less than one-third the national average, of which at least 2.4
million (22 percent of the total) lived in absolute poverty. The root causes
of this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of non-irrigated agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally
employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly
in industry).
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent in 1980. The program is
being further strengthened by the present administration, with the ambitious
goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982 and to
1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in regard to
rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new tax incen-
tives have reduced the anti-employment bias and additional efforts to stimulate
employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output
should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however, the
still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor
force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young
people in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a
difficult goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its
consideration several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to
be short-term palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be
available for investment in employment-creating activities or for improving
educational or health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 6-7
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however the present
levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
16.       A National Employment Plan was published in early 1979.  It calls
for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector in both
urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those employed outside
the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a major effort will be
required in the area of vocational training. Technical assistance programs
are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured forms of activities,



- 5
especially in the services sector. While there is no doubt that the authorities
are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment, and while the institu-
tional structure to carry out some important programs already exists, a concen-
trated effort will be required to take effective action and to make better use
of human resources by substantially reducing the level of hidden and open
unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive new large-
scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity (and income
per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present administration
has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with agriculture in
order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy emphasizes
increased production through a widespread program of development of foodstuff
production. Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance,
demonstration, and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural
potential. Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation serving nearly one
million ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but with a smaller
proportion of budget resources than in the past. The banking system is being
encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production and processing
programs. These initiatives should lead to an acceleration of production
growth, more equal development opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an
improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world moving rapidly to
become the first) and other areas in the dry, densely populated central
plateau, and (b) retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in pro-
viding either better jobs or adequate public services for the one-third of
all Mexicans who live in towns of less than 2,500 inhabitants. The present
Government has taken many positive steps to confront these problems, including
an administrative re-organization, elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and
introduction of a strong package of incentives to promote growth in a few
well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry has moved to the leading position and is expected to play a major role
in expanding domestic production and exports. A National Industrial Development
Plan was published last year and it reflects the preoccupation of the present
Administration with the long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their
implications for employment. Industry has the potential for considerable
expansion in many areas, including efficient import substitution in chemicals,
petrochemicals and capital goods as well as exports of a variety of manufactured
products. While most of the above industries are known for their capital
intensity, they are expected to promote secondary industries with considerable
employment opportunities. These will be enterprises producing secondary
petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal parts and components for capital
goods. Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.



-6-
20.       The main problem for the Mexican economy in the years to come remain
the reconciliation of a high growth rate with a relative price stability and a
larger participation of the low income groups in the expanding wealth of the
nation. The National Development Plan, published last April, marks the final
step in the planning activities carried out by the present Administration and
places in a consistent framework the specific targets indicated in a number of
sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years. In addition to presenting
a macroeconomic picture of the development prospects, the National Development
Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required to achieve the various
economic and social targets. These policies are essentially sound but call for
a major implementation effort on the part of the Administration. Growth with
low inflation poses difficult challenges of adjusting prices of public goods
and services without undermining the existing consensus of the country, and
improving income distribution would call for policies that encourage labor
intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without slowing down
modernization of the economy.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1979. This
high ratio reflects the still relatively low level of exports relative to GNP
and the high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio
of external public debt to GNP (24 percent in 1979) is average for middle-
income countries. The public debt service ratio declined to around 30 percent
in 1980, not only as a result of rapid increases in petroleum exports but also
because some of the debt contracted on the least favorable terms had been
prepaid. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3.2 percent of public
debt service in 1980; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during
the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.7 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO I/
Bank Operations
22.       As of January 31, 1981, Mexico had received 69 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$4,798.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 38 loans totaling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
presently holds US$4,117.3 million of which US$2,049.1 million have not yet
been disbursed. Some 45 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development (24 loans for US$2,144.7 million), 16 percent for industry
(12 loans for US$747.5 million), 15 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million), and 17 percent for transportation (14 loans for US$816.4 million);
the remaining 7 percent has been for water supply (US$255 million), tourism
(US$114 million), and urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1981 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Rainfed Agriculture Development Project (P-2941-ME of December 30, 1980).



23.        Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget financing has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were moditied and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention in
Mexico has been focused on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects are proceed-
ing satisfactorily and plans have been formulated to strengthen execution of
those projects where improvement is still needed. The effectiveness of these
actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91 million was
disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 disbursements totalled US$233 million and in FY80
disbursements further increased to US$404 million, or 38 percent of the
undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year.
IFC Operations
24.       As of January 31, 1981, IFC had made investment commitments in
22 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$536.0 million, of which US$394.6
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
25.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help break bottlenecks
preventing more rapid growth. Therefore, the Bank is preferentially support-
ing projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor,
projects that promote higher levels of employment and production, and those
that help to decentralize economic activity. Through the proposed loan the
Bank would also help to structure large investments in port development which
are likely to influence Mexican development in the long-term.
26.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small
farmers through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural
development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under cultivation;
third, to complement infrastructure investments with general support services,
including agricultural extension and marketing programs and provision of
medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities in rural
areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has made
thirteen loans in FY74-80 totalling US$1,497 million for irrigation, rural
development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock credit programs.
Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed agriculture,



-8
rural development, and support services are in preparation; a rainfed agri-
cultural development project has been approved by the Executive Directors
and an integrated rural development project is expected to be ready for
presentation to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
27.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas, and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city
in which it is located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer
sector has been strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the State-owned
fertilizer company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote
the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support
an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors
in FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid
expansion. The Executive Directors also approved in FY80 a second small and
medium scale industries project and a project for the mining sector, which up
to now has received insufficient resources from the financial system. Two
capital goods industry projects are under discussion for possible Bank support;
their aim would be to assist the transfer of high technology to Mexico so that
employment might be increased in the engineering subsector, strengthening the
base for manufacturing industry.
28.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Fourth Railway Project (FY81) supports improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and Medium Cities (FY76) Water Supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A Highway Sector Project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A loan for a Medium-Size Cities Water Supply Project was
approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980.
29.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
enacted a law of human settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet
the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key
regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West
Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project
for oil producing southeastern Mexico is being negotiated.



-9
30.      The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting) in training
Government staff in several aspects of project preparation, monitoring and
evaluation. A course on urban and regional development has recently been
concluded and several courses for agriculture, rural development, and agro-
industries are programmed for the near-term.
31.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,428 million to December 31, 1980. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. In
1980, the IDB approved three loans totaling US$280 million for water supply,
fisheries and pre-investment study projects. The IDB and the Bank have worked
in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the Bank have each
made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure,
the Integrated Program for Rural Development (PIDER), agricultural and livestock
credit, small- and medium-scale industries, and hotel development. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of
US$22 million for a rural development project in the State of Oaxaca which was
appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORT
Background
32.      Mexico's principal spatial problems are a heavy concentration of
economic activity, wealth and people in Mexico City, the lack of integration
between urban and rural areas and imbalanced inter-regional development. In
1978 almost 65 percent of the 65.4 million people of the country lived in
urban centers of more than 2,500 inhabitants. The Mexico City Metropolitan
Area held almost 32 percent of the total urban population and was already
suffering from serious congestion and environmental problems. The Guadalajara
and Monterrey metropolitan areas contained another 10 percent of the total
population between them. The same year, over 40 percent of the GDP was
contributed by the Federal District and the State of Mexico, while at the
other extreme seven States contributed less than 1 percent each.
National Spatial Development Policies
33.      The Government is aware of the serious degree of economic concentra-
tion in the country; its main spatial policy goals in recent years have been
to curb the growth of Mexico City andto a lesser degree, that of the two
other main metropolitan areas (Guadalajara and Monterrey). The Law of Human
Settlements (1976) provides the legal basis for planning and implementing a
spatial development strategy. Its objectives are to promote new growth poles
and medium-sized cities as alternatives to the largest urban centers.



- 10 -
34.        In May 1978, the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works,
(SAHOP) published a National Urban Development Plan, which outlines a spatial
strategy. The policies presented aim at achieving a national urban system
which, by the year 2000, would consist of three cities of more than three
million people (Mexico City with 20 million inhabitants and Guadalajara and
Monterrey with 3 to 5 million each), plus 11 cities with more than one million
people and 17 with over half a million each.
35.       Such a national urban system would require measures to reduce the
rate of growth of the three largest metropolitan areas (such as adjustments
in public utility rates to reflect economic costs), an accelerated growth
of regional centers and medium cities to provide services on a regional basis,
and the improvement of social services in the bigger population centers in
rural areas. The Plan defines 10 zones which will receive support on a
priority basis and identifies three large metropolitan areas where growth will
be discouraged. Priorities are defined taking into account each region's
capacity to absorb population and provide employment, and resource endowment.
36.      The spatial policies outlined in the National Urban Development Plan
are reinforced by policies outlined in the National Industrial Plan published
in March 1979. This Plan provides for the construction of industrial parks
and related infrastructure in priority areas, preferential credit and energy
prices for industrial firms located in them, and tax credits for investments
and employment created as the main policy tools to encourage spatial deconcen-
tration of economic activity. The area around the ports of Altamira/Tampico
was selected as having high priority in view of its transport links with
Monterrey and the potential it offers. Lazaro Cardenas, the site of the
first Bank supported urban project in Mexico, and the Isthmus of Tehuantepec,
are also identified as priority regions.
37.      The National Development Plan issued in April 1980 endorses the
spatial policies outlined in the above mentioned sectoral plans. It states
that investments in the transport system would be designed to facilitate
decentralization.
The Transport Sector
38.       Transport has played an impDrtant role in the economic development
of Mexico. The expansion and evolution of Mexico's transport system has been
supported over the years by adequate public investments in infrastructure in
all modes, and strong, privately financed, bus, truck and aviation industries,
which provide adequate services. This combination produced a transport system
which was generally satisfactory until the mid-1970s, with good modal balance
and sufficient capacity to serve demand. The system then only required
selective expansion and modernization to meet the needs of a growing economy
and support Mexico's strategy of spatial decentralization of population and
economic activity. However, reductions in public sector investments since
1975, coupled with a surge in economic growth since 1978 and rapidly increasing
demand for transport services, have led to bottlenecks, particularly in the
railway system, which in turn have affected some ports and the highway system.
A US$150 million loan to help finance the ongoing expansion of railway capa-
city was recently approved by the Executive Directors. In the aviation subsector,
the Bank appraised a project in 1978; however, no loan was made because of
differences between the various agencies concerned over investment priorities.



- 11 -
39.       MIexico relies on extensive road and rail networks for its transport-
ation needs. Pipelines and coastal shipping are important but specialized,
while aviation, the most dynamic mode in terms of growth, is still relatively
small. In 1978, road transport carried about 41 percent of all cargo traffic
in the country, while the railways carried about 21 percent. The remaining
traffic, mostly of petroleum products, was moved by pipelines (23 percent) and
coastal shipping (15 percent). Roads carried 94 percent of all passenger
traffic, while aviation and the railways carried about 3 percent each.
40.       Overall, traffic grew at about 10 percent annually between 1970 and
1978. Increases were experienced by all modes, especially since the economy
began to recover from the 1976-1977 recession. The Mexican economy has been
growing at 8 percent annually over the past two years and is expected to
maintain high rates of growth in the 1980s. The implications for the trans-
port sector of rapid and sustained economic growth in the future are of high
rates of increase in demand for land transport and port facilities.
Ports
41.       Port traffic, if petroleum is excluded, is surprisingly small in
view of the size of Mexico's economy. Much of the foreign trade is with the
US, for which overland routes (railways and roads) are used. However, port
traffic is expected to become more important in the coming years as the
economy grows. Shipping is largely concentrated in domestic coastal traffic,
mainly of petroleum. International trade consists mostly of the export of
minerals, agricultural products and petroleum and the import of capital goods,
grain and food supplies. There are some 30 ports on the long Mexican coast-
lines; they handled some 40 million tons of international traffic in 1978, of
which about 55 percent were petroleum products. For general cargo and non-
petroleum bulk commodities, the capacity of Mexican ports has generally been
adequate until recently; however, more than two million tons of Mexican imports
and exports are being handled annually through US (Texan) ports, with extensive
overland movement. Furthermore, difficulties in handling grain imports and
container traffic have recently been experienced in some Mexican ports. This
situation, together with prospective increases in Mexico's import volumes and
container movements in general, warrants a review of the country's overall
port development needs. Such a review is being undertaken in the context of
Government plans for regional development, aimed at shifting population con-
centration and economic activity away from the central plateau to the coastal
areas (see para 29) and the industrial port development program (see paras 46-
50), which the proposed loan is to support.
Port Administration
42.       Up to early 1977, the Secretariat of the Navy was responsible for
administration of commercial ports, but the administrative reform of that
year transferred responsibility to the Secretariat of Communications and
Transport (SCT). A Subsecretariat was created within SCT to take charge
of all aspects of port construction and management, while SCT's Department
of Planning assumed responsibility for planning port development in the
context of transport development as a whole. The Subsecretariat for Ports
includes a Department for Port Construction (OM) and a Department for



- 12 -
Port Operations (OP). OM has a considerable number of engineers on its
staff who have experience in construction of small commercial ports; it has
not, however, yet developed all the expertise necessary for construction of
large deep-water ports as envisaged in the industrial ports program. OP
normally delegates responsibility for operation of individual ports to local
port service companies; the nature of these companies and their efficiency
varies. In the case of Tampico, the operating company is the union of port
workers, which operates very efficiently.
43.       While SCT has overall resonsibility for port development and
administration, there are several other institutions which perform specialized
functions in the port sector. The Comision Nacional Coordinadora de Puertos
(National Port Coordinating Commission), an entity which coordinated all
aspects of port development prior to the administrative reform of 1976, is
still in existence and is used primarily as a vehicle to consult port users in
industry and commerce on port development. FONDEPORT, a trust fund managed by
SAHOP, has responsibility for land management in industrial port areas, while
BANPESCA has recently been given responsibility for financing the activities
of the fishing industry and the construction of ports. BANPESCA is a
Government-owned bank which emerged from the reorganization of a cooperative
bank; its function is to provide financing to the fishing sector and for
commercial port development in general. As indicated in para. 46 below, a
study unit reporting directly to the President of Mexico has also become
involved in port development through its work in identifying areas for future
industrial expansion. This has resulted in unclear lines of responsibility
for the development of some aspects of the industrial port program discussed
in Part IV of this report.
Past Bank Participation and Experience in Ports
44.        The Bank has provided broad support to the development of transport
in Mexico. Since 1970, eight loans have been made to support investments in
highways, railways, ports and aviation. A number of institutional and policy
objectives have been sought in assisting transport development. For the
sector as a whole, the goal has been to improve transport planning and adminis-
tration. Progress in this respect has been made since the administrative
reform of 1976, which gave SCT overall responsibility for policies and planning.
45.       A Bank loan of US$20 million (Loan 820-ME) was granted in 1972, for
a First Ports Project. It was fully disbursed in 1977. The principal reason
for the Bank's participation was to help achieve more efficient operating
methods and a commercial approach to tariffs and services. Substantial
operational improvements have been achieved in some ports, but little has
been accomplished so far in rationalizing port tariffs.  Instead of a national
port authority as originally suggested by the Bank, a new Subsecretariat in
SCT has been made responsible for monitoring port operations and controlling
investment planning, a clear improvement over the previous arrangements.
Largely because of these changes, and because the new Administration which
took office in 1976 had different priorities, a second port project appraised
by the Bank in early 1976 was not carried forward. Further progress in the
administration of the sector is expected to result from port planning activi-
ties to be supported by the proposed project preparation loan.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
46.      Early in 1978, the Government established a study unit reporting
directly to the President of Mexico to draw up priorities and general plans
for investments which would be of long-term benefit to the country. This
unit, the Coordinacion de Proyectos de Desarrollo (CPD), was headed by
a former Secretary of Finance and Credit. As its first task, CPD undertook
a study of possible investments which would facilitate decentralization of
economic activities from the Central Highlands to the coastal regions in order
to make better spatial use of Mexico's territory and of its natural resources.
Later that year CPD published a comprehensive study proposing investments in
four port areas to provide the necessary infrastructure for new industrial
development which would draw economic activity to coastal regions. These
industrial ports are located in areas designated for growth in the National
Urban Development Plan (paras 29 and 34-35) and are well served by inland
transport infrastructure. Four port locations were proposed: two on the Gulf
Coast (Altamira and Laguna de Ostion) and two on the Pacific Coast (Lazaro
Cardenas and Salina Cruz). The two industrial ports on the Gulf Coast were to
be entirely new harbors near the existing ports of Tampico and Coatzacoalcos
while the two on the Pacific Coast were to be based on expansion of existing
port facilities at those locations (see attached Map IBRD-15534).
47.      CPD's study was endorsed by Government in early 1979 and the indus-
trial port development was given high priority in the public sector investment
program of Mexico since it would support large industrial investments in
coastal regions envisioned for the next two decades. In 1980, SCT, SAHOP and
other sectoral agencies were given authority to proceed with major contracts
for construction of access-channels, connecting roads, railroads, water supply,
urban development, and land acquisition at the four proposed industrial port
sites, and CPD was made responsible for coordinating all studies, investments
and promotional efforts for the program. Over twenty industrial and trading
enterprises have already expressed interest in investing in the proposed
industrial ports, and some have signed preliminary lease agreements for the
land areas they would require and are reportedly postponing or cancelling
investments in the Central Highlands regions in order to use the proposed port
facilities on the Gulf and Pacific coasts.
48.        In general terms, the proposed industrial port program includes
the following:
(a) at Altamira on the Gulf coast, about 15 kms north of Tampico, an
entirely new port is to be developed on about 60 sq. km of flat,
barren terrain adjacent to a straight, sandy coastline. Major
steel industries, grain import and food processing facilities,
petrochemical and aluminum industries are expected to be located
on this site;
(b) at Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific coast, an existing port at the
Las Truchas steel plant is to be expanded (see para 27), to
accommodate food processing and chemical plants and ship con-
struction and repair facilities;



- 14 -
(c) at Laguna de Ostion on the Gulf coast, north of Coatzacoalcos,
an entirely new port is to be constructed in presently unused
swamp and lagoon areas adjacent to the coast, for major oil
terminals and petrochemical industries; and
(d) at Salina Cruz on the Pacific coast, near an existing general
cargo port, a new oil terminal is to be constructed within an
entirely new harbor basin, adjacent to the existing one, and
related industrial facilities are to be accommodated on coastal
lands to be developed nearby.
The locations of these ports are in general accordance with the Government's
regional development program and the specific sites selected at each location
seem suitable for the land requirements of the proposed industries and their
auxiliary and support facilities; in selecting these sites, appropriate
consideration was given to land availability, terrain characteristics, land
and sea access, and environmental aspects. The Government estimates that more
than US$2.5 billion equivalent would be required for investments in infra-
structure in the four port areas between 1980 and 1985.
49.        The Bank was asked in late 1979 to review the CPD study on indus-
trial ports and to consider its possible contribution in carrying out the
proposed strategy. Bank staff concluded that, though the study outlined an
acceptable strategy for economic decentralization, the absence of preinvest-
ment work for specific components of the program made it difficult to define
an appropriate role for the Bank; material produced by CPD was not specific
enough to permit appraisal of a project by the Bank. During further discus-
sions in August and November 1980, it was concluded that the Bank might best
assist, in the first instance, through participation in the planning and
review of preinvestment activities required for the program, and that such
participation could be provided in the most effective manner through a project
preparation loan. Since financing for preinvestment activities is not avail-
able from UNDP, which has fully committed its resources for Mexico, and CPD
does not have sufficient staff with experience in planning large ports, the
Government has asked for Bank support for project preparation. The proposed
loan would help tinance the cost of consulting services needed for technical,
economic, financial and institutional analysis of specific components or
general aspects of the industrial ports program. A brief description of the
project may be found in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report; Supplementary Data may be found in Annex III and a tentative list of
studies and other tasks to be undertaken to prepare the Industrial Ports
Program may be found in Annex IV. Negotiations were held in Washington in
January 1981. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Izquierdo,
Deputy Director of BANPESCA, and included a representative of CPD. At a later
stage, Bank financing of construction and/or equipment acquisition for compo-
nents of the program which had been adequately prepared might be considered.
The Bank is also considering, separately, an Urban Development project aimed
at achieving a rational and planned development of urban concentrations in the
industrial port hinterlands, particularly of Altamira.
50.       Work has been advancing at some industrial ports:  at Altamira and
Lazaro Cardenas, major contracts for dredging of harbor basins and land fill
were awarded in 1980 by SCT, and construction work is in progress or being



- 15 -
initiated. For the ports at Laguna de Ostion and Salina Cruz, which are to
serve primarily petroleum related industries, the Government-owned oil company
PEMEX will have overall responsibility for harbor basin construction and land
preparation; no work has been started yet at these sites. Within all these
ports, major tenant industries will construct their own specialized docking
facilities, but each port will also have a public cargo terminal for multiple
uses, which will serve both the industries that do not have their own water
frontage and general traffic of the ports' hinterland; planning for these
public cargo terminals has been initiated by CPD and their construction in all
four ports will be the responsibility of SCT.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The proposed project is to support the two main Government objec-
tives for the development of new industrial ports: (a) decentralization
of economic activity and growth to areas outside the central plateau; and
(b) provision of direct access by major domestic industries to international
maritime transport.
52.       Specifically, the proposed project is to assist in the preinvest-
ment stage of the port development program, through the provision of planning
and management advisory services in program formulation and design, and
through studies, detailed engineering, and related field and laboratory work,
for sector and individual project components in the ports program. The
proceeds of the loan would be used to finance the services of consulting
firms, individual consultants or advisors, and any equipment and materials
required for their services. A summary of studies and other services which
would be considered for financing is given in Annex IV; it is intended to
revise this list from time to time as may be necessary in the course of
implementation of port development preparation activities. Since the proposed
loan would help finance project preparation work, a Staff Appraisal Report has
not been prepared. If the projects and subprojects analyzed in the feasibility
studies prove to be technically and economically viable, the loan would also
help to finance detailed engineering.
Project Implementation
53.       It is envisaged that Bank financing of preparation activities for
the industrial port program would afford the opportunity for a significant
dialogue on program formulation and relevant planning and organization
issues. To this end, provisions would be made for close consultations
and periodic meetings between all concerned Government agencies and the
Bank on the scope, budget, progress and results of the program of preparation
activities (see Section 3.03 of draft Guarantee Agreement). CPD, which has
been designated to coordinate the program by the President of Mexico, would
convene and preside ove-: such meetings.
54.       Responsibility for retaining and supervising the services of
consultants to be financed under the proposed loan would be given to the
agencies responsible for implementing individual components within the port
areas (e.g. planning and design of channels, marine structures and railroad
trackage to SCT; planning and design of roads, land preparation, drainage and
water distribution to SAHOP/FONDEPORT, etc.).



- 16 -
55.       The Government and its agencies would employ consultants whose
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Bank. Agreed procedures would be used for this purpose and prior approval
from the Bank would be obtained for deviations from such procedures (see
Section 3.04 and Schedule 2 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
56.       The total cost of the consulting services (net of Mexican taxes)
is estimated at US$24.0 million, of which US$14.0 million are foreign
costs.  Budgets for individual studies and other preparation activities would
be agreed during project implementation in the course of the consultations
mentioned in para 53 above. The estimated total foreign and local costs shown
in Annex IV are based on preliminary assessments of each task, and are made to
provide a basis for determining (i) the order-of-magnitude of total project
costs and (ii) the percentage to be financed. Preliminary estimates of the
man-month effort required have been prepared for the first two items in Part A
of Annex IV since they are the most urgent. It is estimated that 230 man-months
will be required for item (1) and 60 man-months for item (2). The estimated
unit costs for these services (including salary, costs, fees, international
travel and subsistence), of US$14,000 to US$18,000 per man-month for foreign
personnel and US$9,000 for local personnel, reflect the high level of staff
qualifications required and the cost of living in Mexico. The average cost
per man-month for the remaining items, which are less complex, is expected
to be lower.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of US$14.0 million would cover the estimated
foreign cost of the project. The borrower would be BANPESCA, acting as
financial agent for the Government. It would transfer Bank funds as required,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to the agencies retaining
consulting services (see Section 3.01 of the Draft Loan Agreement). The
balance of project costs would be covered from budgetary resources of these
agencies. The loan would be repaid by the Government through BANPESCA.
Disbursements
58.       The Bank would disburse 58 percent of total cost of consulting
services, foreign or domestic, which is equivalent to the estimated foreign
cost of the project.
Project Justification and Risks
59.       The CPD study suggests that, prima facie, there is a case for
investments in ports and other infrastructure facilities in Mexico's coastal
regions, both to serve as a basis for expanding economic activity to draw
population to such regions, and to open up new trade routes to Europe, the
Americas and Asia. Further demand, planning, and engineering studies are
required, however, to justify investments in large industrial ports. Because
institutional responsibilities for developing the industrial ports program are
not clearly outlined, the studies being prepared may not be comprehensive
enough or of adequate depth to provide a sound basis for financing the major
works contemplated in the ports program. The Bank could serve a useful role
in helping structure and supervise the necessary studies. The proposed loan
would help to finance the cost of such studies while assisting the Mexican
authorities in designing and supervising them. The proposed studies are



- 17 -
therefore worthy of Bank support; moreover, they could serve as a basis
to appraise possible Bank assistance for port and related investments at
a later stage. The risks are that major investment works (not financed by
the Bank) may be initiated without the benefit of required studies and that
there may be disagreement among the various Government agencies involved
about the scope of studies and proposed developments at each port; the Bank
could play a useful role in helping reconcile such differences, should they
occur.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANPESCA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 5, 1981                                       By Ernest Stern



- 18 -                                               Annex I
*                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~Page 1 of 5
100 - NC7=w  IDICATS  DATA aUsT
NzrtCo                      RERENCE momW  (VIITAY           'ZS
lA02DLEA 'ThOUS9ND 50. D)                                              __ _- MST_R_C_T  T:=_
AMICULTtlRAL    977. 2                              IN6T RECUT             MIDDLE 7ICONE           MIDDLZ iNCNtE
1960 k     1970 k  ESTIMATE       LATIN AMRICA 6 CARIMUND          EO?t
GNP PER CITA (US$)                  400.0       750.0   1590.0               1562.9                   2749.5
zMUcy cossuMwTIOm PER cAPITA
(KILOGLAMS O COAL EWIVALEIT)    770.0        1047.0   1384.0               1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTIC5
POPMLATIMS,  IND-TIE  0(ILLIONS)    36.4       50.3     65.4
URtAN PDPULATION (PRCUT Or TOTAL) 51. 0        59.0      65.2                63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJZCTIONS
POPULATION IN TYAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   116.0
STATLOARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      205.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EH.                      18.0        26.0     33.0                 28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. EK. AGRICULTUNAL LAND    36.0        52.0     67.0                 81.7                    129.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        45.6        46.5     45.6                 41.4                    30.6
15-64 TnS.                        51.0       50.0      50.9                 54.7                    61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.4         3.5      3.5                  3.9                     8.2
POPULATION (GCVTE RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                             3.1         3.3      3.3                  2.7                     1. 6
URNAN                             5.0         4.8      4.6                  4.1                     3.3
CRUDE BIRTH PATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0        42.0     36.0                 34.8                    22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    12.0         9.0      8.0                  8.9                     6.9
GRORS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.1      3.0                  2.5                     1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPtORS, ANNUAL (TT8USANDS)      ..        25. 1    845. 7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..      21.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0       100.0    101.0                106.9                   113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRIMENTS)                 110.0       112.0    114.0                107.4                   125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         65.0        66.0     66.0                 65.6                    91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      27.0        27.0      27.0                33.7                    39.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    14.0         9.8      6.0                  8.4                     4.3
HSALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   58.0        62.4     65.0                 63.1                    67. P
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          78.0       74.0      60.0                 66.5                    55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        54.0     62.0                 65.9
URBAN                              ..        71.0     70.0                 80.4
RURAL                              ..        29.0     49.0                 44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..                 62.3
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                 79.4
RURAL                              ..        13.0     14.0                 29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1700.0      1481.0   1815.0               1849.2                  1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..       1613.0   1398.0               1227.2                   929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL NED
TOTAL                           617.0       831.0    851.0                480.3                   289.7
URBAN                              ..       549.0    758.0
RURAL                             ..       1289.0   1077.0
ADIIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED         ..         ..        ..                   ..                    17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEEOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.7
URBAN                             5.7         5.7
RURAL                             5. 2        5. 8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.9         2.5
URBAN                             2.6         2.2
RURAL                             3.4         3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        59.0
URBAN                              ..        80. 7
RURAL                              .         26. 0



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                                        Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA ES
- 1MST RECENT ESTI_ATE)  -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCCHE          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMQEICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROL:.MENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                80.0       104.0     116.0                  99.7                   105.9
hALE                 82.0       107.0     119.6                 101.0                   109.3
FEHALE               77.0       102.0     114.0                  99.4                   103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                11.0        22.0      39.0                  34.4                    64.0
MALE                 14.0        27.0      42.0                  33.5                    71.1
FEltALE               8.0        17.0      36.0                  34.7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  24.0        24.0        ..                  38.2                    28.8
PUPIL-TEACEER RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0        46.0      46.0                  30.5                    29.4
SECONDARY                         13.0        14.0      17. 0                 14.5                    26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       65.0        74.0      76.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPL'LATION                       14.0        24.0      42.4                  43.0                    84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        91.0       278.0     306.0                 245.3                   192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        60.0      85.0                 84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0          ..        ..                  63.3                    93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0         5.0       4. 2                   ..                     5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10993.0     14493.5   18951.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        17.4      19.0                 22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1        45.0      39.0                  37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)          --   19.5         23.0      26.0                 23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENIT)
TOTAL                               30.2        28.8      28.8                  31.5                    40.9
.YALE                               51.1        47.4      46.8                 48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                               9.2        10.1      10.7                  14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.7       1. 7                  1.4                     1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61. 1/c     60.7      57. 7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 4/c      3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/c       9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     216.0                190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     332.0                474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     332.0                332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is noc uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 20-                                                                           Annex 
Pass 3 of5
o00  itm oedf toe -- Soostly 30415d k. met mSkSooOl.tt -d toliaks.' it ohold .1o ..e ootod thot Ihoy mY -ot ho Iotoo-
M-M ."I'Dopu      hml.  .e of 1k. look of stso,41oci dogiIalti.o               oe m     egno"   by 41 dffermt *obttlem  to -11l..1.   ho 4to.  Ok. do.  o. 
IhoIm.. vaecul to 4.0.01k. .04.0  of SM utde, OadI.aU  tre Io  mi shooeh1atei   60tals mjow 4ifwf Lti..ke I                       amidt..
Iof t510cm.. somtye  0 (em) th for   .ompte"  a.... .1the oamehSea  P."t VS             (i     meo   im     Ii-.et   10    .oo.                         tkm  1k. estry  a.w
of Ie okimtdemoy  (aI, Lo   0901501001Nott"pw~e"UgeXa. 550   01.1.. am 3161. 10"t  id ehoamo helom, of ott...
oeel-ootatI sfietia).   , Ie refeomoe Pe         W At  the nano~s  a.. ,qe"latu  ulakI    arigt1oti  emu  Lor seh imdtutwt &1   hoe, emay tont
loomt bolL of 1k. t l it 1. grter km dot. f-t thot                           8110to.    im   t. dooorev  Of smtO.. -mg tk. 1=1.t:.t-  do,-ed, -  okm .ilohilit, .1
del -d t.n    mitesll ,  -toot   mt be   -Looted Is .0l0tif8 anto  of  -e Idlot.10   omto. I.e..onse.. T0,--                        * coZy .0..  L.0           L".   ths .51.
of me  .INStOMW  -t o tim  oo-A the   -tot 7o -od .e.Cose eoPe.
.oofo.oto  oo,.I.ood.4  -.   -d 1.151 ootot.                                                      0 00o.0  W051   01 inot Ls 0.-I.
P               d  mrhet e.d kftohm  satdin  a  to li. bulln   1977 dOta.                         I& ..".  ooe    ruiadoSo.~    dssb                                oo
(Us eot  of .polwiso    e    ooet,0   omotl                                   a hfLki.E                           qlta   lO Py am. ..ofto ptmto10.1
UUCOlA(US  - P p. osIt. 0.111.00   corot  so' p.1...  ..I .1                       IoX          Ti       oI      ,t 1;            i.        .Of bhOw..' bod
iI yU Sd~o...too   mtko   -. W.04 look A1101  (1977-79 h.it.); 1940,                     Aw11.hl. IA ""kle  *g Ptiyet. Sommel am Sp.doioIf hosprtaol -d   -
1670. 5d  1979"1a.                                                                            b"1111001.0  tmoto.  9owitsl  -. ootou1dSott P.0oly  *t..eo
by 01 1.-1 so  pbYolI.%..       OlA.nop-to 1tU.   pO0otry   .004
LMWeY       W?l    PUCAPITA - A..l .s             i of tt  or i.1  -ay (-Il                      s.    0  -t 1-.Ad4..  S1ol  "oeIta.. ki.o. 1I.M.1   kosith   Af 10
51iait.ptoime, -tIol 91 u04 hydo-, 0.1..  ed gootko.-1 .1.o-                         Iot.   wt PeImmmtl  otaffd by a pby.lam  (hot by S 5110.  Soinme,
Itiotty) 1. kil"oooi .f too  oqi'olcot Pe.  -pit.; 1940. 1970, Sod 1979                          o.. .gif, ott.) .30  off.. 1-petlet oto-Moti    51 p.006.
dot..  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ lt   .~.   of  .&I-I ftotilit...  f-  Lot.o1t1oo1 mpo... mo,_ hos
t."e oL-I." Olm p.Ootipol S.Il .g opettollode booptOlo. .0d cm.1
hosItal. loe.1 Ot  maal hospItal. 51  mgic1 e.g mtanltytot.
M 7,1110MEMAM-Ot'lli-)- A.  fJoly 1; 1960. 1970.   d17
to  P     - 1. of                         51  1970                                          - ~~~~~~~~~Tot.1 -"r  of od.01coo0  to. -    ..k,to.,
Etoo b-pitl.         t6. o..  of hO.".
diffat.oot dofftlood of-eb.ot. y offoot tewot..hility of dt.1.ii
0M  oootOiA; 1940. 1970. od1079 dt.-                                                    A.0tO  01.0 of Eoe.hod  oo...L               kot.ooldi - t-tI. -bke. 51 O~
LUIAL, Too6L200  - Cettoot p.Waltiot pt.jiOtioO    -t bo.od -   94                          tbotmof       l.        ott    ot Ldso.1d y At toy to 'tmh isidd1
totol popul.ti.ot by .po sod  -o  e.  tb101  nt.toltty e.d f-.tility tt.                  oh-ytebl  t,ottota  pto.o
l.a  Ifto.pot.oy 00birh  Oot..i0..1.6  OOtty    PO  00015 t01s             tb.to  p.tohoo  o  to     i.. J  o  P-t-...,torlaupd  o,to
lo-e. doo  f"'ll 11.00 op"t.-y .toilioigta1 77.5 yToo.  The Vat-                          a.~0 .  .opoctt,oy.  ke11io.. .. od.  -ot-                     _.r        Itatro 5
oot-t  fo. f-tility rob. alt  hn.  tho.. loosl   --ooo  d-0110  it                        -.o,owi P.g     t..
fo.tllloy  --ood10  to I-m  le-t  od pool f-il, plooolod porf-too.                      A---01 t. Eott.iityfoto   f             l1a)-ttl    o.~o0 
3-ofk -t"wo   I. tho  . aeto   -o  of tkooo al   oitotos             f co-tlity           Coo,0t-o.  0.110a t-Ith  of &-Iiot.y 10 it.-. qooto.    too0 o
ttood fotliyOt   . o  vtoJ..ttt    P.op-oo                                        of -oo9l. ob.t, .0  t-..a 6eolligo           ptiay
St,timorVtooolto   - Is.  . Wt-ttooo   poutloto  tho. to 10- oroh 00.0
tko bioth too  it tq-1 to the dooth tOt.. and 0150 th.   0ttO t to-                      -
.01.  oootoothi.  I11    ..bci-"o  0017 Ott., tottilitytot    11.t                       dlo.to  Istol-t 10110.
tko tepLora t 1.01 of -oit tot ropt.odttico rot.. W t            -.h oo  Im ti-           flrs. .hoal   total. ml. an  IpsI  - tr-o  total. cal.  .dOsl
of        Itwloo. It-Ift .0,17   O T.  -titoty poptdtiot 01.. 0o.o11-st of .11   to*to   tot"t  1.01soproooo  of t.mo
etotod  stbs bool. ofth   toto oO.ct.i.f tho .t,.lti-                                    otl-IT cobs-...p p.pltooio.           -II,ll  ioal..4. . i.drI. .VW 0
Itot1k. ye.. 2000, e.  the rot. of d.01100of fortilty .t.t t. toplo-                        7tc  hot odjootd fo4.0 difo.to   I-$ob. of ptba-y odect-of.,to
met 19 1PV.              .Uro.              10.01.b                                           tottl-.-ttto   With mivoto1 od-tooto  oooi-t my  -.0. 0  100pton
To,sal..,solto   .Oobd-Torouo tootioso"y it,.Oto                                       SOt-t.         p.ua.  t.   .  h.   11  ttto1sholo.
.10kmhq    tord.1A04r tho    t- t                                                                                        a.= &105    fm=    - Cowotd  -o oh.t;o0.ot
- Lf-yoor populotoo p.t sq-o.  kbloweatr (106 bmt-ot) of                        ",t~ottl    StIttoo.o   otot troIi d i.tlootbo -too tLoo;
PO  0 . h. .OiOOO L (s     - Ctwotd  -o  bo.o fot Wo -totts  10.4I                                 -l f12I   7           .o
P.P.1.tios hA" Lttoot;oos~" o to        - CbIldto-  (0-16 y-.o). -okbs0.-ta  (IS-                IAlo  .    oUlo * I.dotl f. or0t.pros  thioh oort-  1Mw..-
o4td- toltod                         ot -d   Pot-aoao of lid-yo-  tOts-                 d-stl        4.".p     tto  of o.o yi_ti'oioo
P0.0.115 Oout Ioa (ettot)- ttal - -k0.  Stooth tOtO  of total Old-                   ptimy so  ;2osday ius. ditdd by sboake   of t-b-or  it.0
yoo  popol.lotoo  Lot 1950-60. 10-0.od 197G-79.                                                 -o.rp,odiog l.o.io
tt.l.oo  GE.11 0.1  torot)   obo   - A-.1oa  0,.-h  -tot   of ..bho  t                         Adlt ltlro.  tt  otot   Llt-rt.  dult. (ohio 1 tord ." -A                   to
COdo BIrth  Mt.10to  th .a. d) - A-o.a 11.0 birth. pot thod.aad of .id-y..t
Cp.PL.tio.t1960. 1970. ..d 1976 dtt..
Ituo  tat 110  oo   b--a"d   - A-ool d.01k. Pot tho.ao.4  0.dyo                       P...r If               t h .0.g  oaoll     to.s,C. o.oo   o
p.polotloco  1960. 1970. .0  1970 00la.                                                       rOn ioS  l... th-. otht Potoot; sold .  oboo1 s. hoar...
to."  I5,tdolot lat   - A.otqo tlbot of &-P1t Iroo    -    ill hoot L..ioy  .ll.
hot tof=   topto.tOv   totid It O. oopric=o    _YOOt  Sae'Pootift tsr-                    1.1  tcivs fotthot.a.d conLstor                  All typo  of r.oi-.o  for  "nS
riltty rotb; 0.0017 i.oy        oro-re     -digo Is 1960. 1970, .0d 1977.                   btoco.t  000   o c                 tot--ouod ot  otolsto. i-     ol..do. ,ol-
tily P=oobo     Act::oo  Oeso  (tth..d             - 6.-.1  ..t- of Ocpo.                     osdr500ttoonti.n   It ystorO. Igit.trto I Crszoco
of kioth-tostold.l    osoraIcao  e.io1ual                     l t.0 I,  boit V,or-   ~       ... 10  Wot  doto f-ot        - c Tot yar  my  -o  ho .tWsrobl.  i-co.0
7.=1,P1.0. -   as(tr l of atrio   .oo)      ocotI   of sotiod                                  co.riO .oliort 0d          016
ofoIld-h Toaoo(56  yot)o.io   ith-cott.ol doti...ot                                TV totitor  (to  thouo.d roptalioo) - TVrbttttfo  kod-o
015 mri.d  -00   It e. -      1 g. g-p.                                                     gosorolp11i  pot tbou.-d ppjt.loto; soclo  to oiootoo   TVtoOSo
POW AM  IMITION                                                         L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  .-otri. add 0. yosrs oh. to.trt.tio  of TV -tot  -o  Io .fW-t
106, f  0. Podototro  CaLit  (1969-71tLOO) - lob   of pot -.pitn.o.                       too   diyI.r1itro   co."    .10    ~    .idol11
ptoduotio of .11 foo  co itt..  PI ;dttitt totldo. .0d.4  51    od*             W           littio  doottd pIrt.tily to  -co igto  boonol ot1               It I. .-tods,tO
It  ecIldt .  hoit.  C4-itoO   I otio                 - t Sotgo. (..S.                     I.ocoo t  b. "d.ily" tf it topo I.  t 1ot too  11-.0   t..
_zts  of .ebot) ohih sto  dibl  004  -ot.i. tottisot. (0.5. roffto  .d                   COos A-oa  Attwodc  to. torit. tot T-o  -3040.tctar
to.a..oocodo A. .foo.t. prodocti- of ".hb oooott  to bto   0                           tOoket.  l0  AutiOg tho y..r, i..iodig  d4ic.fto         t  dr-ive-tcis..
t.tot.  0.mb    .od...tri. 0ilb.;  96163.1970. nod 5970 dot..                  .   oio00.
Pot 0010. tool,of 000.10.tooromt%f rmr61         )-65   tutS  trobls-i.
ooOty sq.itolot of sot food ooppli.. smil.bl. It cototo   p.. copit.                LAIN15 PORCE
pot doy.  k,-il.bl  oopplioe tooptie  dooot.   p, r.to ti"o.                            Ttots o  0.1 Lahot I000  (thoaood.)    Etoill   ttiro  toe.-.  ioobdi50
oxo-o  -d ch-,s I. 10 00k.  00.ot10  .rdosso -p,l,  0041.                                 st-od fo   Isd0   -plood hoc  -0141 it 0                -oo.Oo.  -co-. etc.
q-tcoito flo  to foodItcsoe,so   .00O ft                   tlb   o.   OORM1..             Oefl.tttt     L. -In srot   -ootri..            -p-blt.ohi; 1900. 1970no
mete nrc  000110  byPA  bo..  .  phy.21.oIc-1 ood.d  for   -a00  t011                     1979 dote..
otty .d1.:  10d  oh-  ei.t10miomt-ttal tomyorstoro, boy u                 ti.bc. 00     Pel  (uos)- ocolho   ot     P.tooatof00111100
co  eo  torioooo00tolf ic.  .   olor.10 poco   o   tc.                             Tcoto_       _,=       - labo  tot1.  00.0..'T m:              ootc.  o
hteholi-d .1;0,1; I191-6115  1970. sod 197   o.                   111150d0 torlhi,1   p,-og.e of t0t.1 lob-. fotot; ~196.  1970.4  . 978 d.t.,
Pot cot. 0.,of prttalo Cite. Pot do,) - P0.t.1. 000100  Of p-~ 0.7010                     10damtVy     roc   t ILbo  f-ro10 I1 ..  otottoctio,molco  t
tot ..ppiy of food p-. doy.  Xst oupply of food Io dftl-d 0.obs                             . sd olo.trtriiy,  totrodse.p totSs of 10001 10h00f- tot .120,
qoro .to for.1  .oo  1ooothloaIb.            16  0,4.0.5110                          1970 .04 1978 d.ts.
silooco.0  tOameo   tota   prtoi .r toy end  20 Stoo  of sosisd                         P-tittl,10  (trsc      00. oe   o   0.. -  oiO.tc    r
toloPooo   f  h111,1  10 Ir0.  chood h.o .00I protojo.  Th1...  tood-            toilyrt.                                     1.oos  0   os,sl, sd foeolo lohort fort  to
sdot  ortho. cho.- of75gmoo  too   000                 d 23 grSs  f.0:''                              .,= odf 1                               1-.
lord tod     ro; 191165  1970 .4d 1977 dot.I.  .Wb   WI   h   h                          1960. 1970. so  1975 dot..  Th... or. 11O.0 p.tti.itstioo  rota  -ftl-iog
tP. %pnto orotX   .pp0.1,tt    oslodooc- Protol. oupply of foddo-                            000_rotr  oth011 poplni.  -0io 11. ti                      a.A o  t0
.10.4 fro  0101   .4po1... to Sr.. pO  ds,; 1961-65. 1970 0.4 1977 dt.                    otl Sedoo,110-0100oplti    odr50405odoe
Chid (oo  1-) tttlit lt. (R., thousod) - A-oso    sbst01004   110                    S totlb.-cotol 1.00,orc6.
090 otto 1-6 y-0s 0hobtdro . i this out g .o.p; f-o too do.elopio t,o--tth l f,.
tisdts dorI-od fTtso lIfttI    l    1960. 1970 ood 1977 4010.                       itetot ocoyibtowso
Fo--ootoo of -TPtioow;100 .t(ol  Ri .11h .sd kict  - t.oi-tt by ri,h-,
MUfH 5.otets   1t   yr)-Aoootso   fTooo   i.tis5                                                  totosot. riobo-  20 tooo. I.ro  20I oroa. 0.  poorst 00 -tr- -
00 biorh; 1960, 1970ood 1970 dots.
of .... t. of  Wboo.oo  1..I t1b1.1d-110."                                                 9-otlotd 01.010t0 Port   e0    0,1(9rrooi.-rsOdrrl-
.t-r spply (100104.. It"tt  _or...t m               ttooteotod hot oooooinitd0                ff(ordbi..1
rOtoroochoc t.c  0.. potorod hrohcoo,  poios, sad .-II-oy .011.) 00          Botitatd 001.11,- P.,001   WOa L-1s (US$o   .01)-o..  sl 0. 
porrtcqo  oflhoirooooll. ppoloioo . I  -  urbanso      0100Rtlrlc pbltlibcinl     -n-thIrd of  Ivoso.p, 00711.
:.odr t 00 dp00.0wthindr..ootl   trroo  of0 -tha... f         t tota   or. R. orotli boo    o  d   ottOy   1.11.  los  1   0.b4   r.  1. 
= 1!td.tooo bono.otod  s th         blt c. ......1of IOt toh-r.o I= .  -oo l                10-I .ith~ .tjoolh.oct tor   tor  ;0.If 00110,5 i.tb01. 000
to totbool t  ood0tpptIoot    lto th.oh doy it -     I.. othlq h .. h                     tdotlotod P.pul.ci..11..bolt  Iroty oo.101Itrot      is
f-11,'.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ott  -.rI - 7oooor of pop,botitt (tobso oo.rorl) oh.  t0   5101ept"
PIpoi0   PottotoIto of th.Lr rooptotOvo p.pul.ttoto.  1-sotot  di,-                                                 Ulootosi       sodtonl iota Div.iobo
P.0.1 oaT 101,104  Ohe ootllorctio  .0Aipoo,tobo                                                                                    1,.iocrtc.  0..,  0 .l 50d Pro.ot"ict  0.7p -
Otf _ooco            d 0 _  t _c-uOr byI cr1o-o00.0_  orhl.  -   f0                                                                         00b11.  1900
Pit p"rUvO..d00  0.11.0  looollocton..



JUnME I
mwo - tnbGHI    58267PW  nfLLBM
1970   1973         MoiS~~~A t                                                                                               BElta  ret    At.. 1 of GM8
_9_0197              197           176           17             YU             __                           07          2975-8  I/   1980-95 1/        1970        1979      -1 985
Gross Lews        rdc                          36,970.4      44,30  9.3     56,968.4M     3,43r,        58,796.6      63,214.8      73,653.4      93,835.3           3.6            3.6            6.2           100.3        97.3        90.2
Gait  fcc Te., o  Trae             -114.1          335.1          316.4         344.0       1,630.1       4,173.3        7,514.1     10,233.0           -              -I.,                          0.3          2.7         9.
Gr -s.e6cIn                                36,836.3      48,864.6       31,264.8      34,978.8      60447         6,4.            1193       16083               36668610                                                 0.          0.
I.P.rt  (icclod     30                         3,734.4        3,833.6       4:,782.2      6453          84.0          1,23          1,1.0          1373             9.2            13.7          1251.I41                                2.
Ouporte (0~~~~ort capetlcy) ~3,05164.6            4 109.2       4,71.         6117.         7623.7        10610.        13069.9       18,793.7          6.4            20.7          12.3             6.          2.         19.0
Seecrt  Gao                                       737.8       1,726.4          30 .5S 3538.2              926.8        1114.1        1,418.1       1,779.6         164            -0.3           17.4             2.0         1.3         1.7
Gcou0O-                                         043.          006.          1,1.         64,47.1       44,332.2       33412.7       63,720.2      82.013.2           37             6.0           9.0            8.6         80.3        78.8
xenenc                             7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~168.7  10367 93880,G6.  11:.  :,679.   12833          3,97         0,6.4          3827              80             7.            9.3             19.3      .21.2         22.9
Goose ~~~~~at1c  Savle             6~~~~',430.    8,600.2       9,3068.3     140,52.       11,904.3       03,973.6      07,449.3      22,073.1           6396801.                                                 97         2.
ce.   eoelSErite.                      39.3           7.701. 7      6273.1        6,36.4       10,230.7       12,167.2      13,443.2      20,040.9          3.1~            9.4           9.'7           16.3        169         19.3
21AD8 19 00008 A860 N73                                        Cur-c PIce.. US8 milli-                                                                                                                                       *    o  ma
ne1o~~~~~~~,mr.n. ~~~~~~~3.416,9                    8,636.9       7.443,1      11 560.9       17.119 7      26718         44,306.6      71,176.9          22.4           26.2          21.0           100.0        100.0      100.0
84.6       499.1         473.1         538.5          659.2                     1,273.4       2,8.              -217                         4007                         38          26
Petrcleur, eel Products               ~~~~~~ ~~3~1.0  269.1L     107.3         173.3         266.1         306.:4         366.13        446.6         30.4            707.7                           .           .           .
otter Goode                      2,742.0      3,6~~~~~~~~~~~"43.6  5.,32.  7,8.         1,1.          18,30.3       30624         46839.            20.3           23.7          2066.                         84         6.
8c-Fttr  er .c.                            1,064.7      2,022.9       1,934.3       3,24.6a       4,463.2       6,963.8       12,002.7      19,839.6         13.7            26.0          22.3            31.2        26.2        27.5
REPO0TS3  TOTAL                                     2 743 4      6017           79.1        10.21,        12.03,           24 126      4068  9       6330             17.2            31.7          20.            10. 0       100.0       10.0
Selectd Aerlcct,crl Goode .TT                                  'IT          1491          6947 ~          !T           S,3.          S,2.          W341S            5.3           23.           91T              22.6        13.0         6.1
pec-l..  ce   rdc.38 4                                          460 1       1,084.4       1,793.3       3,789.3      1911,777.8      3,193.9      368633           64.3           637.9          26.6             1.4        24.9        39.3
Seete -Ocrl                                   244.3        4203.4        444.9         348.8         932.2        1093.2        134.          1844.0          1.232                        '10.              89          4.3         2.8
Nocufectutsa                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~443.9  1,069.3  1,610.0  2,143.6     2,372.        2,728.9       3,314.1       3,239.9          19.            22.3          1.               62         1.            .
Other Gttde                                          -          236.9          79.9           -             223.6          -             -             .            .                             -               - 
Noc-Pet-  Sercice                                1,397.7      3,077.2       3,190.9       4.481,1       5,760.3        7,038.8      9,606.3       13,306.3         17.1            19.0          10.7            50.9        38.0        23.4
TRADE I001CES                                                    A.er.e.72.400
Eopoct Pric   edec                                  88.1        162.0         173.8         196.0         234.5         375.9          536.31       684.4         13.0           17.4          11.0
O3,or  Price lcdo                                   91.0        148.0         164.0         178.3         199.4         228.0          269.4         329.9         10.2            9.1            7.6
Tepe  of Trade                                      98.8        129.3         107.1         109.8         127.6         144.8          199.1         207.4          2.3            7.3           4.0
041.0 40000  7 3002OR                                            Occafec  1972 Prce       S 1  MillOost                                                                                                                    A.  of ToL
ftiear                                         14,134.0    14,483.9        14,769.6       4,964.8       4,921.        3,204         5,326.1        5,816.9          1.6            2.I.01.                                    8.4        6.
accdat                                         12,408.0    169531.9        18,236.3      20,026.2      21,963.9      254,1264.3    29,234.0      38.910.5           6.4            7.3          1'0.0           133.6       37. 4       4'1.3
Tertiary                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20,426.4    27,073.9  27,962.6  29,441.9   31,900.7      34,'034.1     39,093.3      49,105.0           3.             4.8           7.              352        34.3        32.3
ctet llGoYP                                     36.9 70,4    48,309.3      30,9688.4     54,434.8      38,780.9      63,214.9      73,:633.4     93,835.3           5.6            3.6           8.2      ~     000.       100.0       100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC0 SECTOR 7160NC80                                                                                                                                                                                      Al  of  GDP
OCta R.t leelr                                   3,4510.      9,126.6      10,274.9      12,0321.8     13,467.3      15,820.7      20,887.        27,314.3         10.8           1,1.7         1O.             14 .8       22.3        i1i2
Cutrect Ocoeodorurre                3~~~~~     ~~,9184  0,644.3  8,090.7      10'82,       10,6631.5     1,63.         140029        19,51.9           17.2             .            9.3             10.6        17.6       1.
Public Satloee .                    1 .3~~~~ ~~~~~~32.0  480.3  1,384.21     1,669.2       1:2,833.8      3,337.6       3,984.7       7,742.4        -20. 7          46.2           131.4            4.2         4.7         7.4
Ittesacect                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2, 198.4  4,723.4  4,292.1    3,212.9       6,2.4         N 8,26.9     10,334.1      12,883.9          16.3           12.4           8.9             6.0        11.3        12.4
cuifOtt(cr                                         606.4     4,24-3.1       2.007.9       3,343.3       3,984.6       4,919.2       4,349.3        5,043.4         44.8            0.9           2.5              1.0         6.6         4.9
41.10670  07l 1R006 7081.00 98C51R                                                                                                                                                  1975-79                               4  1o   oa
merey                                                     33691:1       6,47.          7,736,91     10,349.5        c..10,4                                                                                              33.3
Tr.c.ot  e  Cocci-e...                                    17.1            ,533         1,3374        1,483.2        ce                                                          644.4
SpucLel  welfare                                          4,2211.9       4,602.0      4,771.8        3338.3         c.601.
Oudoarre                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~ ~~1,640.0  1,436 1:,392.4  i,88,  00.                                                     .85.
AStcolt-o  ecd  uReI  t-lop-ac                             1977.0        1627.         1.62,7        1,474.3        t.-7.1                                                                                                4.7
Gacre  Admlc.-rtloc acd Dsfeos                             3,290.8       3,16.8        3,332.2       9,384.1 2         l                                                       29.9                                      29.6
C=     _                                                  1,331.7       1,46346.89     1,7835.2      1, 644.0                                                                    II~.1.                                   5.2
To-ia.                                                        63.1          73.3          53.9          60.         c.-1.0                                                                                                0.2
Totot                                                    19.843,9      22,323.7      24,392.5       31.683.         ih.18.4                                                                                             100.0
Noteid A-aap
881.8038 08900T108                                                                                                                                                   1971.735      950         1980-e5
lIlt                                                 2.62         3.60          6.94          2.71          2.30           2.909         3.21          3.01         3.98           3.64-          3.06
ceport EOiee fct,                                    2.64         0.60         -4.83          3.20          4.00          4.9            2.00          1.00         1.44           2.60          1.1
eargdcul 6001003 RutIc                 ~~~~~       ~~~~2.61  0.23  0.8           0.28          0.20          0.'28         0.13           0.20         0.16           0.24          02,0
-I-u Added Ou        ktI(970 Prt-l.
Itilloa As. o f Tctl         1960-1970                                                        51 ef A-erac
1A4()0 F7 E AND2 00UTPUT 70  6400                  98     87 M                        Gr--h fete                           1960          1970          1948          1970          Growh Rote
Agelcolture                         5.~~~~~~~~~~~24    3.1   30.  39.      .06                             606.0         611,0           347           133.0            4.4
luduarry                          2.1    3.0~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ 19.6  23136                                 0,468.9      4,136.0           14.           15,53
Serolcee                           ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~3.2    4.9   29.9  37.7     4.4                         3,222.8      4,168.7           183.6         142.0             2.3
Torol                                         10.7   13.0  100.0    120.0                2.0                         2,733.4      l643.9            100.0         100.0             5.0O
1/   A-erg  6r-hc raeclcltd By lests- or.
I/Thi -tl ..rt  doe  cot reflect ocacie  ch-ce  ic the c1..lfeifctic  of food.  TO.  -e  cle...Oftttt, 1ytfi-1, sh-  rh-r thee. teport. wee  e,ed-bl, hi8tar
I'    Wefec. icr-att  shre  of oil a..rt..            tto  r-ta, es  el a1  Icreje i-  Ic lbs reltoS  -       .      Il
Februar 27, 1981



'Of                         0 $~f~                               ~         o'i             05 -" 0 u rd     ?oF u p > >                   *^g-^g
~~~~~~ <   hUoate=n    n a  r  0  a'1  <    . n a a
'f              no     nO    ftCfiOPrt  P*an  n  a                                             ft      On no    Ho  on ;>  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                a         4'                                 C0  .  4       o<    iRoo  
p          O V        4 r     0 r    flW5 fl l    >           2               2:     n 
g z ff   ff 2   8          "    ~   Rg nn                    
DOO               OfOf          0   "                          C         aO
C ~          ~          :.             a               C                                          nt
o ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~    ~    ~     C =0                      C           CO  C 0 00 C 0   0                             ). -u@msWo   
_   a0      4  04         00i   00       -         004        0 S000c00Io00w 00w Po,          400I0g 4 i       
M   _   M   M     wv.  vft.t  -              v v    o              s_.=    w_ft          u.,_ -t  0
0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0' 
ftftft                 ,X  bs s                                     4e  4    _4 01  00 0 00r00_000=00             1           n
fio ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      0 0o                                C 04   v         vs s    0000000   0 oo4St 00u   v1W    n>
0. ~         ~            ~            11 -- a 0WOu 4  0~                               ~
1~~~~                                 ~      ~       ~~ _0  '  4 C      ]t~=~w>_=>>_v *-w
4                                t"MPW       o         n lov    >o
S ~  ~    ~     ~    -     40           ft   ft                                                    @S          ss  
4~~ ~               4r9,2                                       4 __S s 0     1  0s 



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of January 31, 1981)
Loan                                                       Amount less      Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose         Cancellations    bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                        1,870.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply            90.0        21.5
968      1974  NAFINSA                    Roads                   90.0         5.1
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              47.0        15.9
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports                25.0         3.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        35.7
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              50.0       34.4
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                50.0         5.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply            40.0       20.8
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        34.0
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 42.0       24.4
1462      1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        58.6
1524      1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 50.0        7.7
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry                47.0       12.3
1553      1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture             56.0       45.6
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development       16.5       13.3
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               100.0       30.9
1569      1978  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  200.0          5.6
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              25.0        6.8
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.       60.0       58.3
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                   Highways               120.0      116.2
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                80.0       48.9
1706      1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              92.0       89.9
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry               175.0      152.0
1820      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Mining               40.0        40.0
1858      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             160.0      160.0
1881      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       100.0
1891      1980  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  325.0        325.0
1908      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              23.0       23.0
1913      1980  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply           125.0      125.0
1929      1980  BANOBRAS                   Railways               150.0      150.0
1945      1980  NAFINSA                    Rainfed Agri.          280.0      280.0
TOTAL                                            4,798.9 1/ 2,049.1
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               681.2
Total now outstanding                            4,117.7
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid       91.9                  0.4
Total now held by Bank 1/                        4,117.3
Total Undisbursed                                           2,049.1
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8       --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5          --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills              0.3     --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/         Sodium Sulphate           0.7     --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --           2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5     --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                 12.0     --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper               2/       2/     2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9     --    15.9
1974     Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                   1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                    12.0     3.2   15.2
1978     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper            9.0     2.6   11.6
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0     --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/       Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979     Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,          Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable           18.0      --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard              25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0     --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper             59.5      --    59.5
Total Gross Commitments                                 503.3    32.7  536.0
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                            372.6    22.0  394.6
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       130.7    10.7  141.4
Total Undisbursed (including participants)              235.4       --  235.4
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed and the physical targets of the
project have been achieved.  In December 1979, the Executive
Directors agreed to amend the Project Description to include
new works which would serve the same objective of increasing
bulk water supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area and
utilize a forecast loan surplus (R79-307). However, the
authorities are now reconsidering the need for some of the
works included in the new Project Description. During a recent
programming discussion, the Government has indicated its
intention to seek partial cancellation of the loan, and no
extension of the closing date is envisaged.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although behind schedule and still moving slowly, this project
is proceeding satisfactorily. Project components that have
been completed are achieving higher rates of utilization than
envisaged at time of appraisal because of greatly increased air
traffic in Mexico.  Three of the six project airports are
complete. One more will be complete by the end of this year.
The last two will be finished next year.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to inade-
quate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is underway
to adjust for these delays. The closing date has been extended
accordingly.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be completed by the Closing date, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs. However, the project is still considered
to be economically justified.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, and works are now progressing satisfactorily.
This is the result of several positive measures taken by the
Mexican authorities to accelerate project execution, including
the preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the special project unit in
charge of project execution.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabiliza-
tion period) was inadequate. Works are now being executed
according to a revised investment plan which has been agreed
upon with the Bank. Due to initial delays the project is
expected to be completed by mid-1981, about two-and-a-half
years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is slightly behind schedule
due to shortages of building materials in the area now over-
come. An outline for the ecological and environmental study is
being reviewed in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic
as well as North American tourism and the economic study of
tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory,
although difficulties in internal coordination have caused
disbursements to lag behind schedule. Recent communications
with FONATUR indicate that bottlenecks are being eliminated.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress of commitments is satisfactory and disbursements should
be completed before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. Over 80 percent of the loan
have been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 3.1, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component is having better than expected
results. Satisfactory progress is being made in the training
centers, but delays still remain in the implementation of the
productive credits, industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. Steps to speed implementation in
these areas have been recently discussed with the Government.
The possibility of reallocating funds to the shelter-related
components is being contemplated.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. Over 97 percent of the loan has been committed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed some 18 months ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
A number of livestock and irrigation subprojects have been
approved by the Bank, and the Government is accelerating
preparation and presentation of the balance of the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Plans and bidding documents for the Sinaloa component is well
underway. Despite initial delays, the Fuerte program is
now gaining momentum.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$125.4 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$31.6 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main works has been initiated.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About 14 percent of the loan has been committed (see previous
comment on Ln. 1552).
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date:                ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date:                ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$150 Million Loan,
of March 2, 1981;  Effectiveness Date:                ,  Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



_ 32 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
PORT DEVELOPMENT PREPARATION
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: two years to date
(b) Project prepared by: CPD, SCT, SAHOP and FONDEPORT
(c) First Bank Mission: late 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: none
(e) Negotiations completed in: January, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: June, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff will be in frequent contact with CPD, SCT, SAHOP and
FONDEPORT to help structure and carry out studies on preparation of new
industrial ports.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Close consultations and periodic meetings to be held between the Bank
and all concerned Government agencies on the scope, budget, progress
and results of the preparation program (para. 53).
(b) The qualification of the consultants and the terms and conditions of
their employment to be acceptable to the Bank (para 55).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
PORT DEVELOPMENT PREPARATION
Summary and Estimated Cost of Studies and
Other Tasks in Preparation of Industrial Ports
Part A: Preparation and Support for Industrial Port
Developments in 1981-1982
The activities covered under this part of
the project will be designed to ensure effective and
economical completion of port construction already
in progress or to be initiated in 1981 (predominantly
with the Government's own financial resources), which
will form the basis for initial port operations and         Estimated Costs (in US$ mil.)
will have a critical effect on subsequent phases of
port development.                                               Local   Foreign   Total
(1) General Support Services - Planning,, Design
and Construction
Planning, review and advisory services for
port design, harbor dredging and breakwater
construction contracts.                                    0.7       2.8       3.5
(2) Port Administration and Finance - Phase I
A study on the organization and financing of
new port entities, for the initial stages of
port development.                                          0.5       0.7       1.2
(3) Navigational Aids and Marine Operations - Phase I
A study on the navigational aids and marine
operation requirements for the initial stages
of port development.                                       0.2       0.2       0.4
Part B: Preparation for Industrial Port Developments
in 1982-1985
The activities covered under this part of the
project will be designed to prepare for port developments
following those prepared under Part A of the project.
This will comprise (but not necessarily be limited to)
preinvestment work on port installations for which financing
from international sources may be sought.



34-
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Costs (in US$ mil.)
Local   Foreign   Total
(1) Review of Traffic Forecasts
A study and analysis of forecasts made for general
cargo and container traffic.                                0.1       0.5      0.6
(2) Public Cargo Terminal-Altamira - Phase II
Site planning and project feasibility study for
the expansion of public cargo terminals at the
port of Altamira.                                           0.1       0.7      0.8
(3) Public Cargo Terminal - Laguna de Ostion - Phase II
Site planning and project feasibility study for the
expansion of public cargo terminals at the port of
Laguna de Ostion.                                           0.1       0.7       0.8
(4) Public Cargo Terminal - Lazaro Cardenas - Phase II
Site planning and project feasibility study for
the expansion of public cargo terminals at the
port of Lazaro Cardenas.                                    0.1       0.7      0.8
(5) Public Cargo Terminal - Salina Cruz - Phase II
Site planning and project feasibility study for
the expansion of public cargo terminals at the
port of Salina Cruz.                                        0.1       0.7      0.8
(6) Port Administration and Finance - Phase II
A study on the administrative, organizational
and financial aspects of new port entities,
their expansion for future stages of port
development, and their-personnel training needs.
Training activities for port administration and
operating personnel.                                        2.0       2.0      4.0
(7) Navigation Aids & Marine Operations - Phase II
A study on the navigational aids and marine
operation requirements for second stage port
development.                                                0.4       0.3      0.7
(8) Public Cargo Terminals - Design
Detailed engineering and preparation of
contract documents for public cargo terminals.              3.5       1.5      5.0
Total Allocated    ..........       7.8      10.8      18.6
Tnallocated ......... .             2.2       3.2      5.4
TOTAL:                             10.0      14.0      24.0



.<;   ,.'-s_                                         l-) ~~~~~~~~~~UrIITED    STATES    OF    AMER CA
MAE7X IC O
.  ts<;   >;                   e                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT DEVELOPMAENT PREPARATION
0k,, . K P   ~        ~        ~              r       CludaRl_4 J.
af  I  t   :,  S  , . V I  \  /        i           X                                                    0S                 --.X.f                                               \                     f: i0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
> ~~~~~~~~~0                          A, ijfixS,<   I@ 
.<   ! z  wif   ' '  ; '     '' t 5  ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ; '  $   0>   <  Nue LaX   j    T   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
bi   I   Z  wN  A, > X00 0  +_; |te/+ 0 < qmSh 0*@ndd:e; : -AA|
'  $ F-.'-  *  9 .:   =; .            .  \   0      -,  ., . 0 ;.   t                     0         9  J   ;;   0.           - - .                                 n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.   52
f~~~~~~~~G.                                                                                                                                       ch                                                  6 Ptwx;S   >,l>t   : :   06,: ;  
p                                        n   hpWiEpq/;WsI-S+j#XHe(sStzoSirl--rS-~~~ 0 4                            Va; st                             gHL'Emhdpf
E       e;      /-  4      1    '' ' f'-iXi Si ''1tUi'>Vt'q''-, A      '    01^V )/'5 
.. , 0 : ; '' ' * C .... A. .,<g, ......................................... t j k ','5""zC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 0   t                            ;    : .  .   ,                          ,    t               ,   2 Y                  f              X    e  _   i  N                                ID.d'   g t, M-1
!  \   \   ---~~~~'  '  ~  4  Q00 00 \ 0 ' ='  ;f0S200 0 ' i' ::\'5 < +9s / GUATEMALA X -~~~~~~R
D   tfF  sfsuoverepsewdE>s fwidf>+sz;/rexq  fffo fbPzese>   9   5  2 t   \l0i p 0 78\ 3 hz1di rg D bsi2; W4;MV   R 2  7; k  i   F                      Swo b;..dd,,/
g   ,   gt$2k   **Q~~~q-                          ; 0|f i  u  i  ' Mj   2  t'   fR32#iWrh                           LiL     5\Vigf tl0Fl - 4-



