RESTRICTED
FILE      - COPY                          Report No. P-556
This report was preparecl for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TC) THE STATE OF UGANDA
FOR A ROAD PROJECT
July 5, 1967



INTERNATIONTAL DEVELOPMNT ASS OCII a.ON
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CN A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE STATE OF UGANDA
FOR A ROAD FROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a pron0osed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $5.0 million
to the State of Uganda.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Association received a preliminary application from the
Uganda Government for financial assistance for a road project in August 196L,
followed by a more detailed application in early 1965. An appraisal mission
visited Uganda in March L965 and reached general agreement with the Govern-
ment on the roads to be included in the project.   Due to delays in completing
the de-tailed engineering of these roads, the Association and the Government
agreed in mid-1966 to reduce the scope of the project to its present size.
The detailed engineering of the roads to be constructed under the project
was satisfactorily completed in March 1967.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in May 1967.   The
Uganda delegation was led by the Honorable William Kalema, Minister of Com-
merce and Industry, and included representatives of the Ministry of Works,
Communications and Housing, the Treasury and the Attorney General's Office.
4.        This is the first road project proposed for IDA financing in Uganda
and would be the second IDA credit to Uganda, increasing IDA financing to
$i5.0 million.  While still a British protectorate, Uganda received one lcan
from the Bank amounting to $8.4 million, guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
The following is a sunmmary statement of the Bank loan and the IDA credit to
Uganda as of Hay 31, 1967:
Loan or                                                Amount (U.S. $ nilli,nj
Credit No. Year      Borrower           Purpose     Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
279-UG      1961     Uganda        Electric Power     8.4 h
101-UG      1967     Uganda        Education                  10.0      10.0
Total (less cancellations)               8.4     10.0
of which has been repaid              0.9
Total now outstanding                    7
Amount sold                      8.3
of which has been repaid      0.9      7.h
Total now held by Bank and IDA           0.1    1OX
Total undisbursed                         -       100       1.00



- 2 -
5.        In addition to the above loan and credit, the Bank has made three
loans to the East African Common Services Authority (EACSA);  two of the
loans were for railways and harbors and the third for telecommunications.
Each one is guaranteed jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Ugpllda,
with the United Kingdom also being a guarantor for the first loan. The
status of these loans as of May 31, 2Q67 was as follows:
(U.S. $ million
Loan No. Year    Borrower    Purpose                   Bank        UJndisbursed
ll0-EA    1955   EACSA       Railways and Harbours     2h.0              -
428-EA    1965   EACSA       Railways and Harbours     38.0           2h.6
h83-EA    1967   EACSA       Telecommunications        13.0           13.0
Total (less cancellations)                   75.0
of which has been repaid                  11.0
Total now outstanding                        T77
Amount sold                         23.8
of which has been repaid         10.9     12.9
Total now held by Bank                       3 .1l
Total undisbursed                                           37.6
6.        Practically all of the 1965 loan for railways and harbors
(No. 428-EA) has been committed against orders for wagons and other equip-
ment. Though some disbursements are made against progress on these orders,
the bulk is made on delivery, soDme 12 to 18 months after the orders are
placed. These deliveries will begin shortly and will be reflected in an
increased disbursement rate. The entire loan is expected to be disbursed
by mid-1968 as originally anticipated.
7.        IFO has made one investment in Uganda, il. Mulco Textiles, Ltd.
The investment totalled. $3.51 million equivalent, of which $2.80 million
was a loan, $6h0,000 was equity and $70,000 was a standby commitment. As
of May 31, 1967 all but $400,000 has been disbursed.
8.        The Association negotiated a $3.4 million credit for smallholder
tea development in October 1965.  The delay in presenting this pioposed
credit to the Executive Directors has been caused mainly by delay in
appointing the Uganda Tea Growers Corporation's Board of Directors and
senior staff. Most of these appointments have now been made and the project
is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in the near future.
9.        A ranching project has recently been appraised and an application
for assistance for an agricultural credit project is under study. The
Government expects to submit a second road project, based on the engineering
work included in the presently proposed project, later this year.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPCSED CREDIT
10.       Borrower:                 State of Uganda
Amount:                   Various currencies equivalent to $5.0
million.



-3-
Purpose:                 To helo finan.ce:  (a) the detailed
engineering and construction. of approxi-
mately 100 miles of main, feeder and
tea roads, and (b) the detailed engineer-
ing of approximately h60 miles of
additional main, feeder and tea roads.
Amortization:             50 years includin.g a ten-year period of
grace in semi-annual installments begin-
ing October 1, 1977 and ending April 1,
2017.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       An appraisal report entitled "lUganda - Appraisal of a:Highway
Project"(TO--590a dated July 5, 1967) is attached (No. 1).
12.       The project co-asists of:  (1) the reconstruction. to a paved surface
of the main. road from Yibarara to Katunguru, totalling about 70 miles;
(2) the reconstruction. to a gravel surface of three short feeder roads
totalling about 7 miles; (3) the construction. of two tea roads totalling
about 24 miles; (4) the detailed engineering and supervision of construction
of the above roads; and (5) the detailed engineering of 6 main and 10 feeder
roads totalling approximately 460 miles. All of these roads form an integral
part of the road program contained in the Government's Five Year Developmen.t
Plan and were found by the recent Bank economic mission to be of high
priority.
13.       The project's estimated total cost, including a 15% allowance
for contingencies, is $7.2 million. equivalent. The proposed credit of $5.0
million wiould cover the foreign. exchange costs which are estimated at 70%
of total costs.  The estimated construction. cost of the main, three feeder
and two tea roads accounts for almost 85% of the total; these cost estimates
are based on. completed detailed engineering and are considered reliable.
Construction. will be carried out by contractors selected on, the basis of
standard Bank Group procedures.
14.       The Nbarara-Katunguru road forms part of the trunk road system
between Kampala, Mvasaka, Iibarara and Fort Portal and is the only part of
that systein which remains unsurfaced. This road will also improve the link
with Congo (K) and would. provide improved access to the railhead at Kasese.
The economic return on. the investment in this road is conservatively esti-
mated at about 10%. The three feeder roads, located near the Katunguru end
of the trunk road, will provide improved access to fishing facilities at     V
Lake George and Lake Edward. The return on the investment in these three
roads is estimated at about 13%. The two tea roads will serve a tea growing /
area near Fort Portal, one of four such areas to be established under a
smallholder tea project which the Government is carrying out. A proposal
for assistance for this project will be presented to the Executive Directors
in the near future.  The detailed engineering of additional main. and feeder
roads, including the other tea roads required for the smallholder tea projer;t,.
could form the basis for a future road project.



- 4 -
15.       The Roads Branch of the Ministry of Wlorks, Communications and
Housing will have overaLl responsibility for the execution of the project.
The detailed engineering and the supervision of construction will be carried
out by consultants.  As already indicated, much of the detailed engineering
has already been completed and the proposed credit would cover expenditures
made for such services s:ince January 1, 1966. The consulting engineers
were appointed after consultation. with the Association, and the cost of
their services from January 1, 1966 to date is estimated to total approxi-
mately $360,000, of which 70% or about $250,000 would be eligible for
reimbursement from the proposed credit.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Developmen.t Credit Agreement between the State of Uganda
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section. l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development Credit Agree-
ment conforms generally to other agreements entered into by the Association
for road projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda" (No. AF-35, dated September 13, 1965), was
distributed to the Executive Directors in, connection with a loan for East
African. Railways and Harbours (No. 428-EA). A memorandum updating the
economic information, on Uganda (No. AF-53) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on October 27, 1966 (R66-141): significant developments up to
April 1967 were reviewied in the President's Report and Recommendation. to
the Executive Directors in connection with a credit to Uganda for an.
Education.Project (101-UG). Discussions have just been. concluded with the
Uganda Government on. the draft report of an economic mission. which visited
the country during October-December 1966. The main conclusions of this
report, which will shortly be distributed to the Executive Directors, are
summarized below; basic data on the economy are attached (No. 2).
18.       In recent years, the growth of Ugarda's economy has been fairly
rapid. During the period 1960-65, real per capita income in the monetary
sector rose by an annual average of about 3.5%.  The main factors which
contributed to the rise in incomes were an export boom in the period
1963-65, and a marked expansion, in public and private spending. Although
private domestic savings were high, their availability for domestic invest-
ment was significantly affected by transfers abroad, hoarding and property
speculation.  Public savings, on the other hand, proved inadequate to
finance an accelerated capital expenditure program, and consequently a
fairly substantial financial imbalance developed. Externally, although
the current account balance was favorable, the heavy private capital out-
flow caused a substantial loss of reserves, which touched a dangerously low
level in the early part of 1966.



- 5 -
19.       The situation necessarily called for fairly drastic measures.
In the 1966/67 budget, the Government provided for a sizeable surplus through
increased taxation and economies in expenditure. It also took the politically
difficult step of reducing the producer price for cotton to bring it in line
with the world market price, thereby closing a fiscal gap which had been
widening. Present indications are that both these steps have had a salutary
effect on the country's public finances, improving the mobilization of
resources for development.
20.       Economic growth in the next few years will have to be based more
on production for the domestic market, in contrast to previous growth which
was largely dependent on the export market. In real terms, the rate of
growth is likely to be higher than in the period 1960-65.  There is, however,
the prospect that an increase in the physical growth rate will be largely
offset by the uncertainty regarding coffee prices and the probable fall in
export prices of cotton and copper. Hence the rate of growth of real per
capita incomes is expected to fall from the 1960-65 average of 3.5% to about
1.2%.
21.       In the coming years, projected investment is expected to be greater
than available domestic savings. Hence, Uganda's development is much
dependent on sustained capital inflows from abroad. Since many of the projects
likely to be suitable for external financing have a relatively low foreign
exchange component, some external assistance may also be needed to cover a
proportion of local investment costs.
22.       Uganda's total external debt (including undisbursed amounts and
its notional one-third share - $79.0 million - of EACSA debt) stood at
$200.8 million on December 31, 1966. The ratio of debt service payments to
estimated receipts on current account in 1966 was about a.6%.   Though Uganda's
potent-ial for long-term growth and diversification suggests that there may
be a margin for incurring additional debt on conventional terms, the unfavor-
able outlook for coffee,cotton and copper export earnings, the low per
capita income (about $1l6), the probability of further substantial borrowing
on conventional terms for EACSO services, and the need to raise large amounts
of external capital to implement the national development program lead to the
conclusion that a proportion of Uganda's external debt should continue to
be on non-conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES CF AGREEMENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
2b.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 6 -
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of Development Credit to the State of Uganda in
an aiount equivalent to U.S. $5,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to
the State of Uganda in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to five million United States dollars (U.S. $5,000,000) to
mature on and prior to April 1, 2017, to bear a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall
be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Road
Project) between the State of Uganda and the Association,
which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
Washrington, D.C.
July 5, 1967



