Document of
The World Bank
pLIE CGrl FY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4047-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
November 11, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)  =  US$1.19
US$1.00                 =  LEO.84
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 feddan (fd)           =  0.42  hectare (ha)
1 kilogram (kg)         =  2.20  pounds  (lbs)
1 metric ton (mt)       =  2,220 pounds  (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDAC     -  Bank for Development and Agriculture Credit
CBE      -  Central Bank of Egypt
CY       -  Calendar year
DIB      -  Development Industrial Bank
ERR      -  Economic rate of return
FRR      -  Financial rate of return
FY       -  Fiscal year
GOE      -  Government of Egypt
GOFI     -  General Organization for Industry
GPC      -  General Poultry Company
IDF      -  Industrial Development & Finance Division, World Bank
LIT      -  Limited international tender
NBD      -  National Bank for Development
PB       -  Participating Bank
PBDAC    -  Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PT       -  Piastre (100 PT = LE1.00)
SSI      -  Small Scale Industry
USAID    -  U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.  Project History  .I........  ...  ...  ...  ...   . 1
B.  The Agricultural Sector  ......  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..          . 1
C.  Prices and Subsidies .......  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  .   . 3
D.  Role of Agroindustry .......  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  .   . 3
E.  Overview of Agroindustries in Egypt  . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
F.  Previous Loans ........  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..   .   9
II.         THE BANKING SECTOR
A.  Financial Institutions and Agroindustries Lending  . . . . . 12
B.  Interest and Exchange Rates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
C. Participating Banks .14
DIB .14
PBDAC   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  16
Bank Misr .19
NBD .20
III.        THE PROJECT
A. Objectives .23
B. Description .23
Agroindustries Credit .23
Monitoring and Evaluation Components  . . . . . . . . . . 25
Training  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Technical Assistance for NBD  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
C. Summary of Project Costs .26
D.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
E. Implementation Schedule .27
F.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
G. Disbursements .28
H. Environmental Impact .28
IV.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management .29
The Borrower  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
The Credit Component .29
B.  Technical Assistance and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
C.  Onlending Terms and Conditions . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . 32
D. Accounts and Audits .35
E.  Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                            Page No.
V.        BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.  Credit Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
B.    Beneficiaries  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
C.  Financial and Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
VI.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ANNEXES
1.       Profiles of Participating Banks
2.       Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP         IBRD 16407



EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Project History
1.01        The project, for which a Bank loan of US$81.2 million is proposed,
comprises; (i) a credit component to small and medium sized agroindustries;
and (ii) funds and technical assistance for strengthening intermediary
financing institutions to better serve such agroindustries. The project was
identified by Bank staff in cooperation with Egyptian authorities as a
repeater project to the US$19 million credit component of the first
agroindustries project, Cr.988. As agroindustries in Egypt are not generally
able to obtain medium term financing from existing sources, it was felt that a
further project was justified. Accordingly, it was prepared by FAO/CP in
November 1981, and appraised in March 1982 by Messrs. R. Hing, T. Turtiainen,
D. hodgkinson, and B. Ateng.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02        Because a primary function of agroindustry is to add value to the
agricultural sector, a profile of that sector is presented hereunder.
Agriculture accounts for about 23% of GDP and 40% of total employment, thereby
constituting the largest sector of the Egyptian economy. Agricultural
production is based upon some 6.1 million feddans (2.5 million ha) of
irrigated land, including about 5.5 million feddans of "old" alluvial lands,
virtually all of which are double cropped (with 195% average intensity) and
farmed in small plots by traditional methods. Cropping patterns in Egypt are
determined by a mix of factors, including commodity prices, Government quota
requirements, producer preferences, soil and climate limitations, and degree
of farrmer commercialization. Wheat and berseem are the principal winter
crops; in summer, cotton and rice are important cash crops, while maize and
sorghum are major subsistence crops. In a typical three-year rotation,
berseem or beans followed by cotton are cultivated in the first year; in year
two, berseem is cultivated in winter, followed by maize or rice in summer; in
year three, winter wheat is followed by maize or rice. This pattern changes
in Upper Egypt, where sugarcane is the main cash crop, replacing rice and
cotton. Through the seventies, feed crops (such as berseem and maize) and
uncontrolled crops (notably berseem, fruits and vegetables) increased at the
expense of controlled crops such as rice, beans, and lentils.
1.03        Egypt has under cultivation only about 0.14 feddan for each person
in the population (currently some 43 million). Although this land is
intensely cropped and yields are considerably above world averages, the
boundaries of developed land place severe limits on the growth of agricultural
output. Moreover, the failure of yields (excepting cotton) to exhibit any



-2-
substantive growth over the past decade gives cause for concern. As well as a
lag in the application of better technology, a major factor underlying the
stagnation of agricultural productivity is the problem of rising water tables
resulting from the increase in water supplies made available by the Aswan High
Dam, combined with increasing soil salinity in some areas. A very large
drainage program is being implemented, though it is running below the level
needed to counteract the effects of waterlogging and salinity. It is
estimated that some 75% of Egypt's cultivated land will need eventually to
have drainage installed. The faltering performance of the agricultural sector
in the last decade is evidenced by a fall in aggregate production growth rates
from around 3% in the 1960s to around 2% in the 1970s. In contrast,
population is increasing at an annual rate of 2.8%, and rural to urban
migration has accelerated. This population increase, coupled with infusions
of money from Egyptians working abroad, has increased domestic food demand to
a level which greatly exceeds the present capacity of the agricultural sector.
1.04        The combination of slow agricultural growth and excess demand has
triggered sharp increases in food imports. Between 1973 and 1979, for
example, wheat and flour imports rose by 170% (representing about 75% of
domestic consumption); for maize and sugar, imports increased from negligible
amounts to 20% and 36% of domestic consumption respectively; similarly, dairy
imports have increased fourfold (to about 25% of domestic consumption), while
frozen meat imports have grown from small quantities to over 150,000 tons (25%
of domestic consumption); in the case of vegetable oil, the increase has been
on the order of 120% (approximately 70% of domestic consumption). During the
same period, the value of agricultural exports stagnated, leading to a
negative agricultural trade balance (versus a surplus prior to 1975) and
contributing to a growing deficit in the overall trade balance. These trends
are well set out in a strategy paper put out by the Minister of Agriculture in
January 1982.  1/  This paper calls attention to the magnitude of the "food
gap", sets forth the reasons (mainly in terms of production disincentives, as
well as increasing usage of food commodities for animal feed, and for
processing industries) and recommends a number of measures (more rational
price policies; emphasis on technological inputs; agricultural land zoning;
cooperation between ministries, etc.). In terms of agroindustries, the paper
points out the high level of wastage arising from the undeveloped marketing
system (particularly in the case of perishables), the desirability of more
competition in marketing channels, and the need for more storage and
processing facilities, in particular cold storage and slaughter houses. The
paper also points to the major role agroindustries play in generating
employment and income. In terms of production priorities, the paper suggests
the following ranking; (i) cereals and pulses; (ii) dairy products; (iii)
fish; (iv) poultry; and (v) red meat. Relevant to the proposed project is the
financing of agroindustries to support these goals. For export opportunities,
the paper recommends priority be given to vegetables, fruits, flowers,
medicinal, and aromatic plants.
1/ Strategy of Agricultural Development in the Eighties, by Dr. Youssef
Wally, Minister of Agriculture and Food Secuirty.



-3-
C. Prices and Subsidies
1.05     A major objective of the government is to control food prices at low
levels to protect consumers' real income. The major effect of this objective
is a heavy net "tax" on the agriculture sector, due to controlled output
prices, of the order of LE1,300 million, whereas the government subsidies to
agriculture are about LE250 million. (The value added from agricultural
production in 1981 is estimated at LE3,427 billion). Interest rate subsidies
on agricultural loans in Egypt include; crop production 3% (short term), farm
mechanization 8%, and land reclamation 3%. Agroindustries, as distinct from
agriculture, subsidies do not significantly abet price distortions although
activities defined as "food security" projects (described in Project File,
Annex 8) benefit from 6% local currency loans - the bulk of these are for
cattle fattening and poultry production - from a LE100 million revolving fund
contributed by the major commercial banks, by government decree. This fund
was instituted in November 1981. Price controls; As a result of government
intervention, consumers are served by a two-tier distribution system, offering
both controlled price and free price items. Staples are available at
subsidized price, usually rationed by quantity, but items are also available
on the free market at considerably higher prices. Examples are given in the
Project File. Similarly, agroindustries, according to the particular
activity, may be subject to price control on their output but benefit from
subsidized inputs. In these cases the government allows a reasonable margin
of profit to the firm.   Where a company opts to apply for quotas of raw
materials at subsidized price, it must also commit to deliver a percentage of
its output into government controlled distribution channels at a controlled
price. Yet there is little net intervention in agroindustries as shown by a
positive ERR calculated for representative activities (para.5.03).
1.06     The pricing system in Egypt is highly inefficient, comprising as it
does a variety of subsidies and controls. The resulting inefficiency in
resource allocation cannot effectively be tackled piecemeal, but rather
requires sectoral transformation. This is recognized by GOE, but the
political realities are such that dramatic changes are unlikely. Certainly,
such widespread distortions cannot be corrected by the proposed project,
though the 15% onlending rate to subborrowers for foreign currency for the
proposed project is a major improvement over past policies which set the rate
at 6%. (Interest rates are more fully discussed in paras 2.04-2.05). The
impact of subsidies on agroindustries, and in particular "food security"
projects, has been to increase investor interest in this field, presumably at
the expense of alternative expenditures (including, for example, urban real
estate), although the vitality of the agroindustries subsector in Egypt rests
more fundamentally on strong and increasing consumer demand and attractive
profit opportunities.
D. Role of Agroindustry
1.07     Related directly to the needs of Egypt's agricultural sector, but
limited by the country's general level of advancement, is the agroindustries
subsector. Its basic task, at this time and in the near future, is to get



-4-
more food from farmers and overseas sources to consumers through basic
functions which reduce waste, extend marketing regions, and generally
contribute to lower costs and greater quantities of food produced,
distributed, and consumed. This means efficient primary processing and
milling of staples such as grain (rice, wheat, sorghum, maize), vegetable oil,
sugar, and poultry products; new and improved local storage (for grain and for
perishable food products) as well as the provision of economical transport
modes, and the development of input industries such as animal feed. Secondary
functions of agroindustries are to process nonfood agricultural commodities
(tanneries, for example) and to provide facilities for exporting products in
which Egypt has a comparative advantage (fruits and vegetables; essential
oils).
1.08     Capital Needs for Agroindustries.  Egypt's agroindustry subsector
does not have adequate facilities with which to fulfill its roles. In the
recent past, because of other government priorities, it has been starved of
investment or even maintenance funds; coupled with the need to service the
large and expanding population, this has resulted in a very large aggregate
need for investment funds. While much of the need is concentrated in the
capital intensive industries (such as sugar refining and vegetable oil
milling) in the public sector, the government's policy of encouraging
decentralization and growth of the private sector has resulted in demand for
funds for new and expanded enterprises in such activities as dairy processing,
coldstores, poultry plants, and the like. The availability of medium term
funds to such private sector enterprises is very limited (whereas the public
sector does have increasing access to government budget funds), and the
project aims to increase the flow of funds in this respect as well as to
strengthen the capabilities of the intermediary banks in identifying and
servicing such needs.
E. Overview of Agroindustries in Egypt
1.09     Agroindustries in Egypt are in a period of overall expansion.  The
public sector, which accounts for the bulk of the activity, plans to spend
about US$1.5 billion on agroindustry projects in the period 1981-1985. The
private sector, too, is expanding at a fast rate as entrepreneurs respond to
profitable opportunities created by high consumer demands for a greater
variety of food products. Ths income demand, which commenced its rise in
1974, especially encourages investments in livestock and poultry, imported
dairy products, and supporting investments in processing and distribution,
including cold storage.
1.10     Role of the State in Agroindustry.  As with so much of Egypt's
economy, the state's involvement in agroindustrial activities is widespread
and complex. Some of the principal agencies involved are as follows; the
Ministry of Agriculture (in addition to its other activities) operates some
poultry and feedstuff plants and has jurisdiction over cooperatives who may
operate coldstores, packing plants, and the like; the Ministry of Industry



-5-
oversees the Higher Council of Foodstuffs 1/, associated with the General
Organization for Industry (GOFI), which has 21 companies under its umbrella.
The Ministry of Supply largely controls grain storage, milling, and imported
foodstuffs; the Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation has
jurisdiction over export companies (citrus, vegetables, essential oils, etc.);
the Ministry of Planning allocates budgets for all new public investments.
The governorates own and operate wholesale markets, abattoirs, and other
facilities. Furthermore, there are split jurisdictions (e.g., the Ministry of
Supply can veto requests by the Ministry of Agriculture to increase poultry
prices); there are spin-offs (when state organizations are transformed into
autonomous state companies); there are joint ventures between state and
private sector; and there are occasional transfers of authority between
ministries. This system can be very cumbersome for state owned companies,
whose procurement, production, and marketing functions may be subject to
separate jurisdictions with consequent difficulty in coordination.
Nevertneless, new developments in Egypt are such that a private company can
get into business with rather minimum formalities such as a license from GOFI
and, in some cases, an allocation of raw materials from the Ministry of
Supply. Private companies operate either under Law 43 of 1973 or under Law 21
of 1958. The former applies to new companies and includes incentives such as
a five-year tax holiday and ability to import without a license.
1.11     Small Scale Industries.  A recent study 2/ reports that there are an
estimated 7,700 SSIs in Egypt (defined by the authors as firms with 10 to 200
employees and less than LE300,000 in assets excluding land and buildings).
About 97% SSIs are in the private sector, and they account for about 25% of
industrial output and the same percentage of workers. Although definitions of
the food processing sector differ, it seems that the SSIs account for about
the same percentage of that sector. A minority of these companies have access
to bank credit, and their importance to the economy merits special attention,
as in Agroindustries I (Cr.988), where 33% of funds were reserved for small
companies. (See para 4.14 for applicable definitions for the proposed
project.)
1.12     For the sake of completeness, major agroindustry activities in Egypt
are summarized in the following paragraphs. Those agroindustry activities
expected to be financed under the proposed project are referred to in more
detail in paras 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, and Project File, Annex 8.
1.13     Grain Storage and Cereal Processing.  Wheat imports were
4.4 million mt in 1980 and corn imports 1.2 million mt in 1981. Local
production was 1.8 million mt and 3.25 million respectively. Rice production
was 1.60 million mt (with a small export surplus). These figures have risen
dramatically during
1/ Formerly, Egyptian Organization for Food Industries (EOFI), which was
replaced under the new policy of decentralization. The function of the
Council is to prepare a five-year plan of investment needs for state owned
companies for submission to government, to recommend priorities, and to
distribute funds.
2/ Arthur D. Little and Arab International Consultants, Review and Evaluation
of Small Scale Enterprises in Egypt, March 1982. An AID financed study.



-6-
past years and are expected to be even higher in the future due to increased
aggregate consumption. Wheat flour is used 95% for bread in Egypt, and the
byproduct of milling, 1.3 million mt of bran, goes to animal feed. 75% of
flour production is in the public sector. Corn is utilized 60% for direct
human consumption and 40% for feed. (In the future increasing amounts will be
processed into sugar substitutes). There is evidence that storage, transport,
and processing capacities have not kept pace with expanded production and
imports. Needed investments associated with the above are additional grain
storage capacity, transport vehicles, flour mills, rice mills, glucose
factories, pasta factories, animal feed mills, and bakeries. Shortfalls in
bread production are particularly significant and several hundred new bakeries
are required in the immediate future (Project File, Annex 8).
1.14     Edible Oils.  In 1981, 430,000 mt of edible oil were consumed in
Egypt, of which 280,000 mt were imported. Consumption is expected to increase
by about 5 1/2 percent per annum through 1990. Both domestic production and
imports will rise to meet this demand. Cotton seed oil accounts for about 90%
of domestic production, and soybean oil for the balance. The Ministry of
Supply distributes the output on a rationed basis as well as handling imported
oil. Eight companies (seven of them publicly owned) have 98% of Egypt's
milling capacity. 1980 production of oil cake by these companies was
517,000 mt. Additional milling capacity is required and is expected to double
during the next few years. Detailed immediate investment needs aggregate
US$220 million. These plants will rely to a great degree on imported oil
seeds. While the government owned mills operate at a significant loss due to
pricing policies, present and future private companies will be allowed to sell
a substantial percentage of their output on the free market.
1.15     Dairy Products.  Egypt produces about 1.9 million mt of fresh milk a
year, of which 34% are available for processing. Imports account for another
1.1 million mt milk equivalent. The dairy products industry includes the
production of pasteurized milk, cheese (white, hard, processed), butter, ice
cream, yogurt, and others. The private sector produces 80% of the total
output (with the exception of pasteurized and concentrated milk which is
presently monopolized by Government owned companies) and with consumption
increasing at 3% per annum it is expected that numbers of investments will be
financed under the project. The main constraints to the further development
of this industry are unproductive dairy farms and the inadequate state of the
animal feed industry. Poor packaging and distribution of dairy products
significantly affect the quality of the final products and farmers are unable
to deliver additional fluid milk to the processors because of inadequate milk
cooling facilities and transportation. The project would provide funds for
milk processing, packaging, and transportation together with cooling
facilities.
1.16     Sugar Mills.  In recent years sugar consumption in Egypt has been
growing at an annual rate of more than 10%.  1981 production and import
figures were 658,000 mt and 695,000 mt (imports exceeded production for the
first time). The Egyptian Sugar and Distillation Company (publicly owned)
with eight large mills as well as smaller plants had until recently a monopoly



-7-
on the sector. It is adding a new mill and renovating and expanding existing
mills at a projected cost of US$200 million. Two new sugarbeet plants are
also nearing production. Because of the very high capital costs involved, the
project will be limited to considering such applications as low cost but
urgent repairs.
1.17     Other Capital Itensive Agroindustries.  Egypt's needs for starch and
glucose, fertilizer, insecticides, maize flour, alfalfa pelletization as well
as full line feed plants are not primary targets of this project, because of
the high investment costs involved. As in the cases of sugar and edible oils,
this project would be limited to considering participatory financing in
selected high priority cases.
1.18     Meat, Fish, and Eggs.  Government is giving high priority to
production of these items, consumption of which in 1980 was 640,000 mt,
300,000 mt, and 2,167 million eggs respectively. Imports were 26%, 43%, and
10%. respectively. Fish and poultry consumption with recent per annum rates
of increase of 25%, and 12% respectively have increased much faster than red
meat consumption which has only been growing at 1.5% per annum. Government
investments in poultry and meat production are a small percentage of the
overall total, though both activities are eligible for certain incentives
(para 1.05). Slaughtering of large animals will continue to be mostly a
government (or governorate) function. As to fish, the government owned
Egyptian Company for the Distribution of Fish handles about 90% of fish that
enters trade channels.  Both animal slaughtering and fish distribution have a
very inadequate infrastructure (although new municipal abattoirs for Cairo and
Alexandria are being financed under Cr.988) and the project is expected to
finance small and medium sized facilities in these areas.
1.19     Production of fruits and vegetables is expanding rapidly in Egypt and
reached 12 million tons in 1980. This gives rise to a range of investment
opportunities in such activities as wholesale markets, packing and grading,
dehydration, canning, juicing, cooling, trucking, and miscellaneous
processing. Previous experience indicates that processing of fruits and
vegetables in Egypt is unlikely to make rapid progress, because almost all of
the Egyptian output is now consumed on the domestic market which does not
demand very much grading beyond that done by retailers. Furthermore, as fresh
produce is available year round in Egypt, the need for processing for
preservation is comparatively low. Nevertheless, two state owned firms,
Edfina and Kaha, are active in this area, both with ongoing expansion plans.
An earlier project, approved in 1976 (Fruits and Vegetables Project,
1276-EGT), provided $9.2 million for unidentified investments in this field
but few applications were forthcoming and the funds were used for other
agroindustries. Plastic greenhouse production (of which there are only about
50 feddans in Egypt) holds excellent promise, as demonstrated by research
funded under Ln.1276.
1.20     Miscellaneous Export Industries;  medicinal herbs, condimental
spices, and essential oils are procured from areas scattered throughout Egypt,
and then cleaned, graded, and processed as necessary for shipment as high
value exports. Such investments would be eligible under the project.



-8-
1.21     Service Industries.  Container manufacturing and trucking (including
refrigerated and insulatc--f vt hicles) for agricultural products are two types
of service investments that would qualify under the project, as would small
investments in wholesale distribution facilites. Several subprojects of this
type were financed under Cr.988.
1.22     Food Packaging has as its primary function preservation and
secondarily convenience. Hygenic and standardized packaging reduces waste and
contributes to a more efficient distribution system. The market for modern
food packaging materials in Egypt is small but with the steady increase in
urban population it is growing rapidly. 1980 estimates showed a total usage
of 50,000 tons, of which 46% were for the private sector. 42% of the total
were imported. These materials comprise carton packaging (e.g. egg cartons),
treated paper packaging (e.g. for milk), aluminium packaging materials (e.g.
for juices), and polypropeline bags (e.g. for frozen chickens). Additional
materials, not included in the above figures, include metal cans, glass jars,
and wooden boxes. A number of food packaging subloans were made under Ln.1276
and Cr.988 and it is anticipated that further subprojects will be financed
under the proposed loan.
1.23     Egyptian food distribution facilities, especially for perishable
produce, are inadequate at all levels and this bottleneck between production
and consumption adds considerable cost to the economy. Public and private
retail outlets coexist throughout Egypt with the former supplying subsidized
and rationed foods, while the latter offer both subsidized and free market
items.' In Cairo there is a mix of specialized food stores enjoying few if any
economies of scale, two state owned chains, and a publicly sponsored private
sector chain. Coverage is even more limited in the provinces, and there is
great scope for more facilities throughout Egypt. Needed investments are
coldstores, refrigerated trucks, ice making plants, retail sized refrigerators
and display cases, as well as ancilliary industries such as food packaging and
bottling. For village trade, current proposals for mobile retail stores could
be supported if demonstrated as feasible. Current coldstore capacity in Egypt
is approximately 200,000 mt. Projected increases in the consumption of
imported and domestic perishables indicate a need for cold storage of about
350,000 mt by the year 1990. The Bank has financed a number of coldstores
under previous loans, and expects to receive more applications under the
proposed loan mostly for food distribution but also for field units to remove
field heat before shipment or further storage. Similarly, ice making is a
growing activity in Egypt both in the public and private sectors, where the
lack of a refrigerated chain lends importance to the use of block ice (usually
25 kg) in the transport of perishables. A number of ice plants were financed
under previous loans and further investments would be eligible for financing
under this project. The Ministry of Supply plans to add more than 12 ice
plants with aggregate daily output of 6,000 mt.
1.24     Poultry.  There has been a very significant increase in poultry
production in the past decade in Egypt. With poultry meat consumption
increasing at an annual rate of 15.5% since 1974 and egg consumption
increasing at 8%, large imports were also needed.  In 1980, estimated e
production in Egypt was 2,000 million eggs, with another 200 million eggs



-9--
imported. (The cost of importing eggs - mainly handling - exceeds the cost of
egg production in Egypt). Yet this only provides an average per capita
consumption of about 50 eggs per year. Egg consumption, therefore, is likely
to double during next ten years indicating the need for another 2.5 billion
eggs. If 75% of the increment comes from commercial facilities, this would
entail 125 facilities each producing 15 million eggs per year. Since about 35
such facilities are now under construction, there is scope for a further US$90
million (foreign exchange component) investment. (By the year 2,000, egg
consumption is projected at 8.4 billion, with a production gap of 600
million). Poultry meat production has followed a similar growth pattern to
that of eggs. The comparative cheapness of poultry products compared with red
meat and the amenability of this activity to 'factory' type production has
resulted in rapid expansion. Nevertheless, village flocks will also increase
their output as problems such as disease, unproductive breeds, and inadequate
feed are overcome. 1/ 1980 estimates of consumption were about 200,000 tons
with 40% imported. Egyptian government goals for future production call for
poultry production to be double red meat production by the year 2,000 (1.06
million tons poultry meat and eggs vs. 0.52 million tons red meat). This
implies an additional 500 broiler production units of average 1,000 tons per
annum output and a foreign exchange component of US$125 million (assuming 60%
local production). Additonally, poultry slaughterhouses are required for
broilers and spent laying hens. Whereas chickens have traditionally been sold
live, urban dwellers increasingly prefer prepared birds, because urban life
styles permit only limited time for food preparation. The number of poultry
slaughterhouses in Egypt is relatively small, at this time, about six in all,
whereas by 1990 trends to slaughter an increasing percentage of a larger
number of birds will require facilities for an estimated 150 million birds per
year, three times the present capacity. This additional capacity will be
located near to concentrations of broiler producing units and slaughter birds
either on a custom basis or own account (buying from producers).  Hatcheries.
The supply of day old chicks to commercial poultry operations has been largely
met by imports in the last few years. Hatchieries and parent stock will be
increasingly important in Egypt. Typical investment costs are LE250,000
equivalent for facilities to hatch two million chicks per annum.
F. Previous Loans
1.25     World Bank operations in the agricultural sector have focussed on
assisting Government to maintain and increase production levels in the "old
lands", and, particularly, to support the drainage program in Lower and Upper
Egypt to prevent a decline in land productivity on account of rising water
1/ In the recently appraised Minya Development Project village poultry flocks
are included for financing.



-10-
tables. This has been financed through a series of four drainage projects 1/
covering 2.8 million feddan of irrigated area.  One of these projects (Nile
Delta Drainage I, Credit 181-EGT) was completed in 1981 2/ while
implementation of the others has slowed over the last two years, largely as a
result of management and contractor problems. The Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 830-EGT) is a pilot project to raise productivity in two
governorates by increasing the level of farm mechanization and strengthening
agricultural credit, cooperatives and extension services. The project has
suffered seriously due the weak management. Better progress is now being made
following recent reorganization and strengthening of the administration of the
various project components. The Fruit and Vegetables Project (Loan 1276-EGT)
includes financing for a seed farm, construction of the West Nubariya Drain,
credit to fruit and vegetable processors/exporters, and associated
activities. Progress to date on development of the seed farm has been much
below appraisal forecasts. However, following some initial delays, drain
construction is progressing satisfactorily and the project's US$20 million
credit component has been fully committed. Studies on the repair of the El
Nasr Canal are only now progressing. The Agroindustries Project (Credit
988-EGT) for US$45 million, which became effective in December 1980, comprised
a US$19 million credit component, as well as funds for the relocation of the
Alexandria and Cairo municipal abattoirs, in addition to financing studies for
the relocation of the Cairo and Alexandria fruit and vegetable wholesale
markets. The credit component was oversubscribed within 15 months from
effectiveness and when fully disbursed is expected to total about 65
subprojects in 15 governorates. The three participating banks - DIB, PBDAC,
and Misr - drew down unequal amounts of the credit for subprojects which
included poultry (egg laying and packing facilities as well as hatcheries),
feed mills, bakeries, and dairies, cold stores, food packaging, and
miscellaneous projects such as essential oil from medicinal plants, halava
processing, and other processing equipment. Contracts for turnkey
construction of both abattoirs have been signed and civil works are well
underway at Cairo. The New Lands Development Project - West Nubariya (Credit
1083-EGT) was declared effective in October 1981. The project is the first
involvement of the Bank in the development of new lands. It provides
financing for reclamation of 24,000 feddans for intensive agriculture,
including settlement of 4,000 smallholders, and related services and
facilities.  The Fish Farming Development Project (Credit 1111-EGT) represents
the Bank's first involvement in the fisheries subsector in Egypt. The project
includes establishment of a 3,100 feddan fish farm in the West Delta area,
credit for individual fish farmers, training and related activities. The
project became effective January 25, 1982. The Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1162-EGT) to help Government develop institutional capacity to
undertake planning, feasibility, and engineering studies related to
agricultural projects has recently been approved by the Bank. The project
became effective January 15, 1982. Finally, the Bank is the executing agency
1/ Credit 181-EGT (1970), Credit 393-EGT (1973), Credit 637/Loan 1285-EGT
(1976), Credit 719/Loans 1439-1440-EGT (1977).
2/ The PCR was issued July 16, 1981, and the PPAR is under preparation.



-ll-
for a UNDP-financed project which will draw up a Master Plan for Water
Development and Use. This Plan is expected to make a major contribution to
water allocation and priority decisions in all sectors. Also relevant to the
proposed loan is the IDF lending to DIB, which recently received its fifth
loan for onlending to the private industrial sector. These loans 1/, aimed at
small and medium term businesses, have been very effective and in fact have
provided the bulk of long term credit to industrial firms in Egypt. During
the period 1978 to 1980, 15% of DIB's loan approvals were for food processing.
1/ DIB III (Loan 1533), US$40 million, DIB IV (Loan 1804) US$50 million, DIB
V (Loan 2074) US$120 million



-12-
1. THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Financial InstiLutions and Agroindustries Lending
2.01        The present arrangements for institutional financing in Egypt date
back to the early 1960s when banks were brought into public ownership, and an
attempt at functional specialization between the four existing commercial
banks was made. Under this system the banks had little flexibility and were
essentially instruments for carrying out government policy in their particular
areas. The abolition of the system of functional specialization in 1975, by
removing from the banks exclusive responsibility for financing specified
activities, gave them greater scope for placing their relations with public
sector entities on a more businesslike basis. Additional obstacles to the
efficient operation of the government-owned commercial banks were removed by
the new banking law in 1975, which also increased the autonomy of the Central
Bank of Egypt and removed the statutory ceiling on interest rates. Under this
law, the Central Bank has the power to adjust interest rates in the light of
prevailing monetary and credit conditions. 1/
2.02        Perhap- the most fundamental change that has occurred in the
banking system recently was the entry into Egypt of a number of foreign banks
as the result of the new foreign investment law in 1974. The new law resulted
in a rapid increase in the number of domestic, foreign, and joint venture
banks competing freely, apart from other kinds of financial insitutions. At
present there are 37 commercial banks (4 state owned, 20 local private sector,
and 13 joint venture private sector), 20 merchant banks, and 2 development
banks - the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) and the National Bank for
Development (NBD). All concentrate largely on short-term credit, with the
exception of Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB), NBD, and and DIB. Only the
latter extends long-term credit to industrial firms.
2.03        Although the special needs of agroindustries lending and the
pressing demand for all forms of credit for this sector have been well
recognized in the country, there is no bank which concentrates on financing of
agroindustries as such. A group of "specialized banks" is, however, of great
significance for agriculture, agroindustries and other industries, between
which the delineation is often difficult. Specialized banks in Egypt consist
of 17 regional Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDAC) supervised
by a Principal Bank (PBDAC) in Cairo, and two mortgage development banks, the
DIB and the newly established National Bank for Development. The Agricultural
Credit Banks (2.12-2.15) finance the subsidized production credit programs of
the agricultural cooperatives and individuals and also act as fiscal agents
for the cooperatives. The production loans are largely seasonal in nature and
may be granted either in cash or in the form of production inputs such as
seeds or fertilizer; repayments may be effected either in cash or as a
deduction from the value of produce delivered to the cooperative. The
mortgage banks are under the supervision of the Central Bank, and are involved
mainly in real estate
1/ The various changes in interest rates are more fully described in the
Project File, Annex 2.



-13-
lending and in financing public housing, construction and utilities projects;
their loans are secured by mortgages and have maturities of 5-30 years. The
Development Industrial Bank, (para 2.07) took over the term lending functions
of the Bank of Alexandria when DIB was established in 1976. The DIB finances
the fixed and working capital requirements of private and state owned
industrial enterprises. Its loans may be in local or foreign currency and
have terms of up to 15 years. The newest addition to development finance
institutions is the National Bank for Development, which started its
operations in 1981 (para 2.22). The Investment Center of Bank Misr
(para 2.20) provides similar services to the ones mentioned above. Total
approvals of agroindustries lending by these banks between 1976 and 1981
exceeded LE220 million.
B. Interest and Exchange Rates
2.04     The CBE regulates interest rates on deposits and loans in local
currency for all financial institutions. In the face of rising international
interest rates, the rates on local currency loans were raised, in January
1981, from 12%-14% to 13%-15% with a simultaneous increase of the maximum
rates on term saving deposits from 10.5% to 11.5%. The CBE does not interfere
with interest rates on foreign exchange loans granted to general authorities
and state owned units. Consequently these interest rates fluctuate with the
market movements. DIB's effective interest rates on US dollar loans are
between 15-17% partly as a result of the compensatory interest free deposits
of 10-20% of foreign currency loans which the DIB requires from its
borrowers. The "food security" loans - covering a large variety of lending
purposes with the aim of providing incentives to enterpreneurs to invest in
essential food processing industries l1 - are an exception. The interest rate
for the local currency part of these loans has been 6% since October 1980, and
even their foreign currency component was lent at 6% from January 1982
onwards. Various agricultural purposes also enjoy concessional interest
rates. When foreign assistance funds are not available, the institutions
apply a floating interest rate of 6 months LIBOR plus 2% to their (generally)
short-term foreign currency loans. The interest rate of these loans was about
18% in the first half of 1981 and about 13%-14% in autumn of 1981.
Compounding the picture of widely varying interest rates is the three-tier
exchange system in use. There are two controlled and one fluctuating exchange
rates, viz;
1/ In October 1980, GOE decided that animal protein projects would qualify
for a 6% on-lending rate under a special "Food Security Scheme". The
revolving fund is financed from nationalized commercial bank profits which
would normally be turned over to the government. The banks receive a
subsidy payment from the government for the lost interest margin. A
committee at Central Bank of Egypt approves the projects qualifying for
this category, and they have gradually expanded the list of acceptable
projects even outside animal protein production. The cumulative lending
by PBDAC, DIB, and Bank Misr for these purposes (short- and medium-term,
local and foreign) was about LE300 million in March, 1982. They include
financing of livestock not normally part of agroindustries loans.



-14-
-  US$1 to LEO.70 for State imports of strategic and basic supply goods,
revenues from Suez Canal tolls, and export proceeds from cotton, rice
and petroleum (operations of the C.B.E. foreign exchange pool);
-  US$1 to LEO.84 affect tourism, Egyptian workers transfer earnings
home, and certain categories of exports (authorized Banks foreign
exchange pool); and
-  since 1974 private companies have been allowed to freely borrow
foreign exchange from financial institutions and convert local
currency into foreign currency on the open market. The rate was in
March 1982, US$1 to LE1.04.
2.05     The ultimate borrowers usually carry the foreign exchange risk.  When
converting loans from foreign financial assistance institutions, such as the
World Bank Group, the "official bank rate" (US$1 to LEO.84) is used. The same
rate applies for interest payments and loan repayments. The exchange risk for
the borrower is thus the one arising from possible official devaluation of the
Egyptian Pound.
C. Participating Banks
2.06     All three banks which participated in the First Agroindustries
Project, i.e., DIB, PBDAC and Bank Misr, have expressed interest in the new
project. In addition, GOE has suggested inclusion of a fourth bank group, the
recently established National Bank for Development and its affiliates. The
three banks which implemented the previous project are wholly state owned,
whereas NBD is a private bank. The PBDAC is controlled by the Ministry of
Agriculture, and the other banks come under the jurisdiction of CBE. 1/
Development Industrial Bank
2.07     Objectives.  Of the participating banks (PBs), DIB is one of the two
which is fully devoted to development banking. According to its policy
statement, originally adopted in 1978 and amended and expanded in 1980, DIB's
financial assistance will be available mainly for enterprises in the private
and cooperative sectors, including artisans and persons providing professional
services. Public sector projects may also be financed on a selective basis.
DIB will particularly assist projects which will result in increased
utilization of existing capacities and will endeavour to spread its assistance
among different regions in accordance with the broad economic objectives of
the Government. Financial assistance can be in the form of short-, medium-
and long-term loans, participation in equity capital, or both. In addition,
DIB provides technical assistance for pre-investment studies, feasibility
studies, research required, etc., particularly for small scale borrowers.
1/ The PBs are described in detail in the Project File, Annex 2,
Appendices 1-4.



-1 5-
2.08     Organization.  DIB is a compact bank, which operates from its head
office in Cairo and three branches located in Cairo, Alexandria and Tanta.
The Tanta branch was established in early 1979 and DIB plans to open the next
branch in the city of 10th of Ramadan in late 1982, followed by branches at
Minya in Upper Egypt, at Damanhour in the lower Nile Delta, and Port Said in
the Canal area. There are now 20 departments (each headed by a manager) at
the head office, ten of which are grouped under three General Managers (one
each for finance and administration; short-term operations and resources, and
for long-term lending and follow-up) which report to the Vice-Chairman. The
remaining departments dealing with legal matters, internal audit etc. report
directly to the Chairman. Overall, DIB's organizational structure seems to be
appropriate for its present activities as well as those planned in the medium-
term. The organization charts for the head office and a typical branch are in
Project File, Annex 2.
2.09     Board, Management, and Staff.  The number of DIB Directors is fixed
at seven by a law regulating state owned banks; this includes two outside
members. The five internal directors consist of the chairman, vice chairman
and three general managers. The Board meets about once a month or more often
as necessary to decide on loan applications for amounts exceeding LE500,000 or
its equivalent in the case of a foreign currency loan. All cases submitted to
the Board are screened by a loan committee consisting of the Vice-Chairman and
the three General Managers. DIB's senior and middle management team has
remained virtually unchanged since its inception, with the exception of two
retirements. As the team has gained experience, there has been considerable
improvement in the delegation and communication of information between
departments. There has been improvement in the performance of the management
also, due to training of senior managers in foreign institutions during the
last four years and the provision of extensive advisory services. Further
improvement is expected to continue with the provision of advisory services
under the USAID program of management consultancy. Project preparation and
appraisals are at commendable level, although project supervision and expost
evaluation need further development. As of December 31, 1981, DIB had a total
of 390 employees including 227 professional staff (excluding top management).
DIB's salary scales make it difficult to recruit top quality experienced staff
especially as the emergence of the large number of merchant banks in Egypt has
created increased demand for individuals with experience or knowledge of
project analysis, and has pushed salary levels well beyond DIB's permissible
scales. However, the staff has successfully implemented, among other things,
four small scale industries development projects and part of the First
Agroindustries Project, all financed by the Bank Group.
2.10     Operations.  DIB's lending operations have grown fast, the
outstanding loans being LE46 million in 1978 and LE183 million in 1981
(Annex 1, Table 1). Investments in equity capital have not been very
significant due to the lack of an active capital market in Egypt, but these
investments also more than tripled during the same period from LEO.5 million
to LE1.6 M. Compared with the early period after DIB's establishment, lending
operations in the last 3-4 years have shown a rapid decline in the proportion
of short-term operations and an increase, to a predominant position, of
medium- and long-term foreign currency operations. Foreign currency loan
approvals



-16-
amounting to LE18.0 million pj25.2 million) exceeded mediuin- run lonlg-term
local currency loan appr; ,l,-;i  for the first tinme in 1978.  ,:i 1980, foreign
currency loan approvals tot"aLing LE46.3 million ($66.l miD ion) equalled
total local currency loan approvals (including short-term loanas) but increased
in 1981 less than the local funds approvals. The overall trend confirms that
DIB has now attained one of its objectives of becoming primarily a provider of
medium- and long-term foreign currency investment funds to indclustry in Egypt
although the local funds still continue to be an important factor. Food
processing industries were the largest beneficiaries in 1978 and 1979 (27% and
33%) while building and construction industries had the largest share (26%) in
1980 and 1981. DIB's loan recovery record has been excellent. The arrears
have varied annually between 2-4% of portfolio, but the overdues more than two
years old were only 0.2% in 1981.
2.11     Operational Results and Financial Position.  DIB's income statements
for 1978-1981 indicate that DIB has made adequate profits, before-tax return
on average equity ranging between 11% and 23% p.a. Return on equity has
increased despite more than doubling of DIB's paid-in capital between the
years 1978-81 (Annex 1, Table 1). This illustrates DIB's abiSity to deploy
funds in a remuner-ltive manner within a short period.  Retu,n on total assets
has been adequate sbetween 2.9% and 3.6%) and DIB has enjoyed an increasing
average spread on borrowed funds excluding current deposits. DIB's
profitability is projected to grow nearly in line with its operations and no
difficulty is expected in its meeting operational and financial expenses after
making adequate provisions for doubtful debts.  DIB's comparacive balance
sheets for 1978-1981 show that DIB's total assets have grown at an average
annual rate of over 45% during the 1978-1981 period.  As of June 30, 1981, 91%
of DIB's assets were accounted for by outstanding loans, reflecting a high
degree of resource utilization, as well as a need for further resource
mobilization. DIB has achieved a satisfactory liquidity situation, with
current assets exceeding current liabilities by six times. Despite the high
rate of growth of assets and debt, DIB has a very satisfactory financial
structure after the doubling of its paid-in capital to LE20 million in 1979
and again increasing it by LE5 million in 1981. The long-ter- debt/equity
ratio was 6.1;1 as of June 30, 1981, which is within the limit of 7;1 fixed
under the loan agreement for DIB IV Project financed by the Bank Group.
Overall, DIB has a strong financial position and is well placed to continue
expanding its operations.
The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
2.12     The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
has a long history dating back to 1931 with the creation of -.he Agricultural
Credit Bank of Egypt.  Though numerous phases and different -ames of the
organization, and with the enactment of a new law in 1976, t-he PBDAC was
established as the apex bank in the agricultural sector, and che Banks for
Development and Agricultural Credit (BDACs) as the central agricultural bank
in the governorates. Adoption of the new 1976 charter entailed restoring
PBDAC's financial viability and extending its organizational base. The PBDAC



-17-
is, together with the affiliated 17 BDACs and an extensive network of about
5,000 branches, member (village) banks and agencies, the biggest source of
institutional credit for agriculture in the country. PBDAC is the umbrella
organization for the regional, in principle semi-autonomous BDACs. In
practice they form a highly centralized organization with nearly all decision
making powers concentrated in the PBDAC. The general policy matters belong to
the sphere of the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.13     Organization.  The Board of Directors of the PBDAC, its highest
organ, has 23 members. They include, besides the chairman and two deputies,
representatives of GOE ministries and CBE and eight heads of affiliated
banks. Apart from the customary powers to control and manage its business,
the Board exercises supervision over the BDACs. The Chairman of the Board is
assisted by two Deputy Chairmen, fulltime employees who are assisted by five
Directors General. The Board of Directors, strengthened by representatives of
State Auditing Organizations and Ministries of Finance and Planning, form the
General Assembly which meets annually. The organization of PBDAC is divided
into a Commercial Sector, an Investment Sector, and the Head Office
(administrative functions).   The most important department from a foreign
lender's viewpoint is the one for General Administration for Investment and
Development Affairs, established in 1978. It handles all term lending
activities, embracing preparation, appraisal and supervision of investment
projects in the agricultural sector, i.e., agricultural marketing, processing
and agrobusiness. It has seven sub-departments, of which the "Food Security
Department" is most directly concerned with preparation and appraisal of
agroindustries subprojects, whereas "International Loans Department" and
"Credit Transactions Department" take care of the relations with foreign
lenders and correspondence banks. Personnel in the Investment and Development
Affairs Department exceeds 100, most of them in the Rural Development (sub-)
Department. The professional staff for agroindustries loans was only 10, but
it was doubled in March 1982 by transferring another 10 persons to the newly
established Evaluation Department. PBDAC staff in Cairo now totals 400. To
enhance its support to the field level, PBDAC has developed six branches in
principal agricultural areas which are manned by about 200 staff members.
However, most of the field work is carried out by the 17 BDACs and their 140
branches, each of which has a staff of about 40. At the village level, BDACs
have about 4200 "agencies" with a staff of 3-5 employees each. In the bigger
villages there are a total of 750 "village banks", each with a staff of about
10-15 employees. The total village level staff is about 30,000. The BDACs
supervise the village banks and agencies in each governorate.
2.14     Operations and Policies.  According to law the PBDAC is to undertake
the central planning of agricultural credit and cooperative financing at the
national level, the following-up of their programs, and the supervision of
their application in the framework of the State's policy. A prominent feature
of PBDAC operations is that it is not only a bank but is responsible for
making available all production inputs either through importation or from
local production, and to formulate the policy of their distribution in cash or
on credit. At the national level, the PBDAC is also responsible for planning,
raising the necessary funds and implementing its programs through the BDACs.



-18-
From the regional to village level, DACBs in the governorates, their branches,
the Village Banks and the agencies fulfill the objectives of the Principal
Bank. BDACs and their member banks deal with several activities supporting
agriculture. In fact, they handle more non-banking than banking activities.
The former includes the sale of fertilizer, seed and grains, jute bags, feed
and oilcakes, insecticides, spare parts, and procurement of some farm
produce. In these operations they are dealing both with cooperatives and
individuals.
2.15     The banking operations have expanded rapidly, reflecting the
importance of PBDAC group in agricultural lending and a growing desire by
agriculturalists to borrow for their short- and medium-term needs. The
balance of loans to agriculturists almost tripled between 1977 and 1981,
rising from LE96 million to LE284 million. The balance, however, only reveals
a part of short-term lending and the total funds provided to agriculture are
larger than these figures. PBDAC group has been very active in granting the
"food security" loans, for which they are not subject to any limit because of
the general nature of their business (the total limit for all other banks is
LE150 million annually). In 1980-81, they granted LE260 million for the
purposes qualifying under this scheme. Nearly half of this amount, LE122
million, was for medium-term loans, mainly for livestock and poultry
development (92%), but smaller amounts also for fisheries, freezing tunnels
and feed production were granted. The short-term loans during the same period
were LE138 million.
2.16     Larger borrowers are expected to use consultants to make feasibility
studies, whereas the bank provides assistance to smaller investors. This
assistance cannot, however, be more than limited in view of the number of
experienced staff at PBDAC and particularly engineers (in March 1982 only 4).
The bank has each borrower fill in a preliminary information collection form
on which the more extensive feasibility study is based. The format of a
typical study contains all the items common in this kind of document. Various
IDA and FAO missions have also observed a definite improvement in the
preparation and appraisal of investment projects by PBDAC group. However, the
missions have found some weaknesses, particularly in the follow-up,
supervision and market surveys. Project supervision in particular --mainly
ensuring loan collection--has been left to branch or village bank staff who
have little training or experience in this area.
2.17     Operating Results.  Before its reorganization in 1976, PBDAC group
had suffered continuous losses as a result of GOE pricing and credit
policies. As a result of IBRD representation during preparation and appraisal
of Cr.830-EGT PBDAC's capital base was strengthened. Amounts due by the
Government were paid and its operations were put on a more sound footing.
Since then, it has shown remarkable performance as described below. The
accumulated loss of LE54 million has been covered by continuously growing
profits during the last five years. Profitability has increased steadily,
reaching an annual level of about LE70 million in 1981 (less taxes). Although
PBDAC reports that all activities are profitable, the income statement
indicates that the commercial activities still overshadow the credit
operations.



-19-
Interest and other banking-related income was 35% of accounting revenue in
1981. The overall net profit in 1981 was high in relation to own capital,
i.e., nearly two thirds of it, but that is mainly due to a fairly low capital
base. The return to total assets also has been satisfactory, 8.5% in 1980 and
95% in 1981, indicating that operational margins are sufficient. Other
performance ratios were also satisfactory (Annex 1, Table 2).
2.18     Resources and Financial Position:  As of June 30, 1981, the resources
of PBDAC and its member banks, subtracting accounts payable, totalled LE635
million (Annex 1, Table 2). Only 15%, or LE53 million, represented foreign
currency funds from IDA, USAID and Credit Agricole, France. Less than half of
the total funds have been made available for lending, the rest have been
needed to finance farm inputs and other activities. An increase in local
funds has been generated mainly by borrowing from other banks and collecting
savings from cooperatives and individuals. Total assets of PBDAC group in
1977-81 increased during the period 1976-1981 from LE282 million to greater
than LE750 million, i.e., at an average annual growth rate of over 20%.
Lending to agriculturists grew at the same rate, but mainly because of large
increases during the last two years. The level of equity (share capital plus
reserves) grew dramatically from LE2 million in 1977 to nearly LE99 million in
1981. Simultaneously, the debt/equity ratio has improved from a very weak
18.5:1 to the very satisfactory 6.6:1.  Liquidity, however, has been
continuously tight. Although details of current assets and current
liabilities are not presented in the accounts, it appears that meeting current
liabilities largely depends on the successful sale of farm inputs and the
punctual repayment of loans.
Bank Misr
2.19     Established in 1920, Bank Misr has developed into Egypt's largest
commercial bank. Before nationalization, Bank Misr created and invested in
numerous important industrial and commercial enterprises. In spite of
nationalization it has essentially retained its commercial character and its
relative role in the banking sector. Long term lending in the field of
development finance was started only after the establishment of a separate
"Investment Center" and undertaking the implementation of the IDA assisted
Fruit and Vegetable Development Project (Cr. 1276-EGT). This activity was
later broadened by partic-ipating in IDA Credit 988.  Bank Misr's Board of
Directors consists of the Chairman, a Deputy Chairman, three General Managers
and two outside banking specialists. Bank Misr is efficiently organized with
regard to its commercial banking operations, in which it has a long
tradition. Its portfolio contains predominantly short-term loans for
commercial and trading activities. A significant part of its organizational
set-up, including about 300 branch offices, is directed to ensuring a
sufficient flow of domestic funds from depositers. It has been markedly
successful in attracting deposits from the private sector (LE1,577 million as
of June, 30, 1981).



-20-
2.20     Development Finance.  All development activities iacLuding medium-
and long-tern lending i(id ,  .y participation are channelled through the
"Investment Center". It s he-aaed by a General Manager who reports directly
to the Vice-Chairman. The center consists of three departments (Project File,
Annex 2), employing a total staff of 70. It has embarked on agricultural and
agroindustrial projects as well as a great variety of equity investmente such
as financial and banking projects, housing and reconstruction projects,
hotels, tourism projects, transpontation and service projects. of the
Investment Center departments, the Agricultural Development and Lending
Department (ADLD) has a professional staff of 20. It was originally created
to handle the Fruit and Vegetable Project. The Investment Ceater has
responsibility for all of Bank Misr's medium- and long-term financing
activities in the agricultural and agroindustries sectors, carried on
predominantly through external aid projects. Technical assistance provided
under the Fruit and Vegetable Project has considerably improved the financial
appraisal capability and sub-borrower assistance in project preparation at the
Head Office level. However, the staff in relation to the number of projects
is few. The main principle of organization is complete centralization of
investment lending and equity participation, although some supervision tasks
in credit accounting have been given to branch offices. As of March 15, 1982,
Bank Misr had approved 165 agroindustry projects (LE45 million), 22 of which
were financed by World Bank group loans. There is a clear concentration of
agroindustries loans in the poultry sector (69%), followed by fisheries
projects (10%).
2.21     Finances.. BanL: Misr has shown remarkable growth during the last few
years. Its total assets increased from LE1,482 million on 31 December 1978 to
LE2,811 million as per 30 June 1981, or 100%, with almost the same
proportional increase in deposits. Bank Misr has a comparatively high
liquidity ratio, total loans to assets being about 50% until 1980 (Annex 1,
Table 3), which is commensurate with commercial banking practices in Egypt.
Due to higher demand for funds in 1980/81, among other things, the above ratio
was reduced to 61%, and deposits exceeded the loans by only 8%. Financial
results have been satisfatory, the profit before provisions and taxes rising
from LE44.5 million in 1978, to LE90.7 million in 1981. This is 1.3 times
higher than the Bank's own capital. There is no separate statement on the
profitability of medium- and long-term lending, but relatively small staff
indicates that also it is profitable for the Bank. Compared to the volume of
lending, the operational expenses (staff, equipment and services) for the
entire bank are a moderate LE37 million. This is 2.2% of total lending and
1.3% of liabilities (Annex 1, Table 3).
National Bank for Development
2.22     Based on a separate law, NBD was incorporated as recently as June
1980 and formally started operations on 1 January 1981. In spite of the fact
that 60% of its equity is held by state owned banks (among them the three
PBs), insurance companies, and the Suez Canal Company, the-NBD has the legal
status of a private, commercial bank. The purposes of the bank and its
activities are very broad and its statutes allow the bank to "undertake all



-21-
activities licensed for commercial, merchant and investment banks in Egyptian
pounds and foreign currencies including and without limitation those
activities related to all commercial banking business, foreign trade financing
and foreign exchange as well as studying, financing, establishing and
participating in development projects in the various sectors, whether local or
joint venture or foreign projects".
2.23     Organization.  The bank is managed by a Board of Directors initially
appointed for five years. Henceforward the period of appointment will be
three years. The Board consists of 14 well known executives having
considerable banking and industrial experience. This augurs well for the
future development of the bank. The bank is chaired by the former chairman of
Bank of Cairo. The main powers have been delegated to an executive
committee. The day to day management is the responsibility of the chairman,
vice-chairman, and managing director. The last two positions were combined to
start with, and the incumbent is the head of all operations, viz.,"Investment
Sector" and "Commercial Sector". Under these and the "Head Office" staff,
subordinated to Chairman, there are 10 department groups (Project File,
Annex 2). Initially working out of one office in Cairo, NBD plans to
gradually open seven branches in the city. However, to better serve the
governorates and the countryside in general, the NBD is to act as a holding
company for small subsidiary banks established in each governorate, with a
capital of LE2 million, 50% owned by NBD and 50% by various bodies in the
governorate. These 17 subsidiary banks were to become operative in April-May,
1982, and function as a kind of mini-development banks. At the same time they
will endeavour to attract deposits. This organizational set up is in line
with the Government's decentralization policy, giving the governorates much
greater say in their own development plans. Although their functions would
basically be the same as those of NBD, NBD will take care of all foreign
transactions on behalf of the bank group. As a private sector bank, NBD is
able to pay the same level salaries as foreign commercial banks in Egypt.
Consequently, it has been able to attract a well-qualified staff, totalling
over 100 and expected to increase to 250 by 1983. Their experience is lacking
in agroindustries sector, but is particularly relevant for the operations of
the commercial sector, and will also help in investment financing. However,
NBD and the governorate banks which are being staffed, are prepared to recruit
persons with suitable experience and will favour those with agroindustries
training and consultancy experience.
2.24     Operations.  After its first year of operation (1981), NBD had
granted about LE40 million in investment loans, of which LE7 million were
withdrawn. The balance of short-term (commercial) loans was LE59 million,
part of it for the agroindustries sector. Two commitments had been made for
medium- and long-term loans to agroindustries for investments totalling LE85
million (oilseed processing and livestock). Simultaneously, NBD's equity
participation was LEl4 million, over half of that in the food industry
sector. Without performance records from the past, future projections are
difficult to make, but NBD has estimated that their total lending will reach
LE100-150 million in 1982. NBD had a good pipeline at its head office to
promote the achievement of this target. Several of the subprojects were
already at preparation and appraisal stage.



-22-
2.25     Sources of Funds:  Besides its LE25 million share capital (paid in by
the end of 1981), NDB obtained a LE150 million line of credit from CBE at its
establishment. The credit period is five years, and the interest rate, at
9.5%, is 2.5% below the CBE discount rate. By the end of 1981, NBD had used
only LE18 million of this facility. The main source of funds has been
deposits from current and potential customers and the general public. These
rose to LE75 million by the end of 1981, far exceeding earlier projections
(Annex 1, Table 4). The bank does not receive foreign currency development
funds from international financing institutions but has been able to get
export credits to its customers from several individual countries.
2.26     Operating Results:   Due to its "commercial" short-term lending
operations and low cost of funds, NBD had already during its first year of
operation LEl2.1 million in interest and other income, while costs were only
LE5.4 M. The net profit of LE6.8 million represents 22% of the share capital
and 9% of deposits (Annex 1, Table 4).



-23-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The major objectives of the proposed project are;
(i) To add value to the agriculture sector in Egypt by financing the
means to store, transform, and distribute agricultural products with
consequent beneficial effects upon, inter alia, increased supplies to
a growing population;
(ii) to strengthen links between participating banks and agroindustries,
especially those of small and medium size; and
(iii) to strengthen the participating banks in identifying, appraising, and
supervising medium- and long-term agroindustries investments, thus
improving the quality of such investments.
B. Description
3.02     Agroindustries Credit.  The project would finance investments
throughout Egypt for the establishment, expansion, and modernization of
facilities for primary processing, marketing, and distribution of basic
foodstuffs and other agricultural commodities and associated service and input
activities. It would support certain factory type production activities such
as commercial poultry production and greenhouse production of fruits and
vegetables. Investments are envisaged primarily in the private sector (i.e.,
customers of the participating banks), but cooperatives and state owned
enterprises would also be eligible if satisfactory to the PBs. For the
private sector, at any rate, demand for funds has been concentrated over the
last three years on poultry enterprises, and coldstores, with lesser amounts
for food packaging and bakeries. These are the fastest expanding activities
not only because of the need for them, but because entrepreneurs perceive the
highest profit margins in these areas. The project would be a three year time
slice of the ongoing lending program of the PBs. The estimates were drawn up
in consultation with the PBs and were adjusted during the appraisal to take
account of previous performance and disbursements, and known institutional
constraints and overall demand (Project File, Annex 3).
3.03     Under the credit components of Loan 1276-EGT and Credit 988-EGT, the
Bank group financed a reasonable range of agroindustries such as poultry
operations (eggs, broilers, and hatcheries), new and expanded bakeries, cold
stores, ice making factories, dairies, feed mills, food packaging companies,
and a variety of food processing and miscellaneous agroindustrial
enterprises. It is anticipated that similar types of activities will be
financed under the proposed loan. 1/ In addition to the priority given to
rates of return in individual projects, broader, sectoral considerations
dictate that desirable investments will be
1/ Investment demand and the viability (both financial and economic) of
typical subprojects are discussed in Project File, Annex 8.



-24-
those which complement other   tivities, and avoid bottlenecks to
distribution.  For bal.    -      rh of agroindustries in Egypt, it is important
to support development of mo-e versatile portfolios than those the PBs
presented under Cr.988. This would also improve their institutional
capacities to deal with different types of agroindustries sectors. In an
effort to introduce some general guidance in providing more balanced
development each bank, in addition to using consultant advice, would be
allowed to use no more than 25% of their allocation for any sirgle eligible
agroindustrial activity. This would be subject to review, and monitored at
the time of each additional allocation (para 4.09). (See para 4.13 for
assurances received). For poultry production, there needs to be a better
balance between production and supporting activities such as slaughterhouses,
hatcheries, and feed mills, and - of increasing importance as supplies
increase - investments in the distribution infrastructure through cold storage
at the wholesale level and refrigeration at the retail level The dairy
industry needs supporting investments in milktrucks and in concainer
manufacturing. There needs to be a balance between flour mills and bakeries.
The cotton and the sugar industries need investments for further processing
byproducts in order to give maximum added value to those subsectors. The
banks will be encou-aged to achieve a balanced portfolio by making contact
with potential subborrowers in a wide range of industries and, to some extent,
promoting and assisting in planning investments in provincial centers.
Nevertheless, "distortions" due to government incentives to invest in certain
industries and, conversely, disincentives to entrepreneurs (through price
controls) to invest in others, as well as considerations of collateral and
other repayment assurances which may be lacking for cooperatives and state
owned enterprises must be recognized as limitations on the goal of sectoral
balance in the loan portfolio.
3.04     State owned enterprises including sugar milling, slaughterhouses,
grain storage elevators, vegetable oil processing, cotton ginning, and
fertilizer manufacture are usually capital intensive facilities with
investment needs beyond the scope of this loan. However, applications would
be entertained from PBs for financing some incremental investments in these
industries, not to exceed US$2 million equivalent per loan, in cases where the
benefits to the economy are clear and where alternative sources of funds are
not available (4.13). Similarly, partial financing of large private sector
enterprises would be encouraged as in Cr.988; for example, under this project
IDA financed US$2 million (and the European Investment Bank the balance of
US$2.5 million) for one of several coldstores needed to supply a 200 retail
store chain in Cairo. (A subsidiary benefit of the facility was that it
complemented the numerous egg production facilities financed under that
credit.) Under Credit 988, numerous applications were received from small
businesses for financing additional lines of machinery, for example, bakeries
adding a new line of semi-automatic machinery. Similarly, loans were extended
for process modernization; for example, a small company involved in cleaning
and selling medicinal herbs raised its daily output from three tons to eight
tons (as well as improving quality of product) by acquiring a fanning mill
costing-US$36,000 to replace manually operated mesh screens. It is estimated
that 20% of the applications under the new loan will be for the purpose of
expansion and modernization of agroindustries of all sizes.



-25-
3.05     Technical assistance components.
(a) Consulting assistance in three areas will be available to the three
PBs that participated in Agroindustries I (Cr.988) through funds
still available for that purpose under the Credit (para 4.05). These
three areas, which are not included in the cost table of this
project, are;
1. Sector analysis and project identification.
2. Training.
3. Monitoring and evaluation systems.
Suggested Terms of Reference have been provided to the PBs (details
in Project File).
(b) Consulting assistance for the same three areas will be made available
through the project to the fourth PB, NBD.
(c) Funds for training courses and fellowships will be available through
the project.
3.06     Monitoring and Evaluation Component.  The consultants provided under
the first agroindustries project will assist the banks to design a suitable
monitoring and evaluation system and data flows (4.18-4.19). The PBs would be
responsible for increasing and training their staffs in these activities.
However, in view of rapidly expanding operations in agroindustries (and other
investment) lending, and the needs of management for accurate and timely
information, mechanization of monitoring activity is desirable. Under the
project, the equivalent of LE170,000 is provided for purchase of the necessary
equipment and/or services. Sufficiently powerful microcomputers are available
in the Egyptian market, but the PBs would decide whether they would
incorporate the expanded monitoring system in their overall computerization
program being developed particularly for accounting purposes, or buy separate
microcomputers suitable for this specialized task. In the former case, IBRD
funds would be available for designing and implementation of a computer
program for monitoring and base-line studies in evaluation activity. In the
latter case, the banks will buy 1-2 microcomputers each (financed by the
project), and purchase a suitable software package and expert services to make
the necessary applications and implement them.
3.07     Training.  Training for agroindustries lending under Agroindustries I
(Cr.988) will continue (para 4.04). Funds would be needed to organize basic
lending courses for new operational staff, refresher seminars and follow-up
workshops for staff trained earlier, and courses on basic business management
for potential or recent borrowers in the small scale agroindustries sector.
The funds reserved under the project, LE80,000, would allow training of about
60 new employees, refresher and follow-up training of 150 staff members, and
courses for a similar number of new entrepreneurs. In addition, it would
allow provision of four fellowships for training in agroindustries lending
abroad.



-26-
3.08     Technical Assistance to NBD.  The three banks participating in the
first agroindustries project will receive consultancy assistance to improve
their portfolio planning and development, for modernizing their monitoring and
evaluation methods, as well as organizing certain aspects of their training
needs. Funds for these are available under Cr.988. For NBD, not a
participant in the previous projects financed by the Bank Group, a separate
allocation of loan funds of US$150,000 is made under this project for funding
consultants, foreign or local, to carry out the same functions. 1/
C. Summary of Project Costs
3.09     Project costs over the three year period are estimated at
LE112.0 million (US$133 million), of which about 60%, or LE67 million (US$80
million) represent the foreign exchange component. Duties and taxes are
included. They amount to less than 5% in the case of agroindustries. Details
of costs estimates, summarized below, are in the Project File. The cost
estimates are based on 1982 prices and actual costs of recently constructed,
or estimates of soon-to-be-constructed units of typical project investments
(3.02). Price contingencies for other than agroindustries subproject
components are calculated in accordance with Bank Group projections of future
price inflation in Egypt and supplying countries. 2/ Physical contingencies
have been added at 5% of base costs of the same components. The contingencies
of these components amount to LEO.9 million (US$1.1 million), about 24% of
their cost.
Project Costs
%  of     % of
Foreign Tot.Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange   Costs
--- LE million ----  --- US$ million ---
Agroindustries Subproj. 44.62  66.91 111.53  53.11  79.66  132.77    60.0           99.6
Monitoring & Evaluation  0.05   0.12   0.17   0.06   0.14    0.20    70.0            0.2
Training & Fellowships   0.04   0.04   0.08   0.05   0.05    0.10    50.0            0.1
Tech. Asst. for NDB        0.05   0.08   0.13   0.06   0.09    0.15    60.0          0.1
Total Baseline Costs    44.76  67.15 111.91  53.28  79.94  133.22    60.0    100.0
Physical Contingencies   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.01    0.02    60.0            0.0
Price Contingencies        0.03   0.04   0.07   0.04   0.05    0.09    60.0          0.1
Total Project Costs      44.80  67.20 112.00  53.33  80.00  133.33    60.0    100.1
Front End Fee                 -   1.00   1.00       -   1.20    1.20   100.0         0.9
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIRED  a/         44.80  68.20 113.00  53.33  81.20  134.53    60.4    101.0
a/  Interest during construction, not payable from project funds, has been
estimated at LE6.4 million (US$7.6 million).
1/  About 15 man-months (US$10,000/man-month for salaries, travel,
accommodation, allowances, etc.)
2/  The projections used for foreign expenditures are: 1983 - 8%, 1984 - 7.5%,
1985 - 7%. Projections for local price increases are 13.7%, 14.2%, 14.8%,
respectively.



-27-
D.  Financing
3.10     The financing plan for the project base costs would be as follows.
(i) Agroindustries subprojects                  Millions
IBRD                 60%           US$79.44        LE66.73
PBs                  10%               13.33          11.20
Subborrowers         30%              40.00           33.60
(ii)  Monitoring and Evaluation
IBRD                100%               0.26           0.22
(iii)  Training and Fellowships
IBRD                100%               0.13            0.11
(iv)  Asst. for NBD
IBRD                100%               0.17            0.14
TOTAL   133.33         112.00
The proposed Bank loan, US$81.2 million would be made repayable within 20
years with 5 years grace at the standard variable interest rate, and it would
finance 60% of the project costs, which represents the estimated average
foreign exchange component of the project. Thus, the loan proceeds will
finance 100% of the cost of imported goods and services. The borrower has not
asked IBRIJ to finance interest during construction but has requested that the
front end fee of 1.5 percent, or US$1.2 million be financed out of the Bank
loan..
E. Implementation Schedule
3.11     The agroindustries subloans are expected to be committed over a three
year period from March 1983 and disbursed by the end of FY 87. Technical
assistance and training expenditures will be committed over the same period.
F. Procurement
3.12     The PBs would follow the procedures used in Cr.988, entailing cost
comparisons from at least three suppliers. This is very effective where large
numbers of small and medium projects are served by several agencies (PBs).
(DIB, which has been a borrower under five IDF loans, as well as under Cr.988,
has used this muethod exclusively for these projects.) Under Cr.988 the three
PBs administered procurement successfully, and the system proved both
efticient and fair, with wide sourcing from suppliers in numerous countries.
As in Cr.988, for subloans involving contracts not exceeding US$150,000
equivalent, procurement would be through the normal, informal, commercial
channels, whereby the subborrower solicits as many bids as is appropriate to
his own circumstances. Consultants under the project would be selected and
engaged according to IBRD guidelines.



-28-
G. Disbursements
3.13     The proposed loan of US$81.2 million is projected to be committed
over three years and disbursed over six years.
FY 83   FY 84   FY 85   FY 86   FY 87   FY 88
---------------- US$ million ---------------
3.2      14       24       21       12        7
The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign expenditures.
Technical assistance and training, as well as foreign expenditure of
monitoring equipment and services would be financed 100% from the Bank funds
against invoices. 80% of local expenditure of the monitoring equipment and
services would be financed in the same manner. This projection is in line
with experience to date on Credit 988 (which is considered relevant) and
somewhat faster than the historical profile of Egypt loans over the period
1970-8U. Five categories for disbursements would be included in schedule 1 of
the Loan Agreement as follows; (1) subloans, (2) consultants services for NBD,
(3) training, (4) computer equipment and related services, and (5) "front-end
fee".
H. Environmental Impact
3.14     A wide range of activities is expected to be financed under the
project of which the most active categories (cold stores, bakeries, egg
production, and container manufacturing) present few if any adverse
environmental problems. A few of the agroindustries subprojects expected to
be financed under this project - such as poultry slaughterhouses and cheese
processing - would have unpleasant effluents. When such subprojects
materialize in the pipeline, the Bank will furnish appropriate guidelines to
the PBs and will be available for consultation or site visits. The PBs will
be expected to apply such criteria.



-29-
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     The Borrower.  The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be
the Borrower. Of the loan amount, US$79.5 million would be earmarked for
onlending to subborrowers for investments in subprojects in the agroindustries
sector, as defined (para 3.02), through four participating banks. IBRD would
enter into a project agreement with the PBs, defining their responsbilities
and obligations for carrying out the agroindustries lending component. This
would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. The PBs would deal
directly with IBRD on project technical matters. Coordination for the project
would be provided by the Ministry of Investment and International
Cooperation. The Ministry will, in coordination with IBRD, keep a central
register of subprojects and monitor the use of individual allocations under
the loan. The Government, as Borrower, would enter into subsidiary loan
agreements with the PBs in regard to the terms and conditions of onlending to
them. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness.
4.02     The Credit Component.  Three banks known to the Bank group and one
new bank have been selected and have agreed to participate in the project.
The multiple channel credit system is a conscious part of project design to
reach out extensively to a variety of agroindustries including small
enterprises outside the main urban areas. As a group the PBs have an
extensive branch network, acknowledged project processing capability,
familiarity with term lending, and specialization in agriculture or
agroindustries which should in the aggregate make up an effective system.
Their weaknesses, as indicated herein, are not insignificant; a major
objective of the project is to remedy them to the extent possible. DIB comes
closest to meeting the criteria for a suitable agroindustries financing
channel, but it has a relatively small and centralized organization operating
in the industrial sector at large. For Bank Misr this project will be a very
small part of their overall large volume of commercial banking operations. To
some extent, this observation is true also of PBDAC, with its large scale
onfarm production loans. However, circumstances are changing rapidly, and
PBDAC has begun to respond to the Government's high priority food security
policy by financing agroindustries and, generally, developing its term lending
as enjoined in its new charter. NBD, a new bank but with experienced
personnel (paras 2.23) and an orientation to development through medium term
lending, has considerable promise as a development bank. With the exception
of DIB, the PBs' ability to undertake development financing is at an early
stage. The strategy adopted for this project is to concentrate on
strengthening the relatively small parts of the PBs' organizations which will
be responsible for this project. The managements of these four banks have
expressed interest in building up their agroindustries development lending
activities. This basic interest was a necessary precondition for their
participation. Thus, it is expected that each PB will proceed according to
its own ability to carry out the project buttressed by appropriate technical
assistance. The result expected is an element of healthy competition, leading
to a better impact on agroindustries development than if there were only one
implementing bank.



-30-
4.03     Because of the desirability of building on the Bank Group's previous
inputs into Mier's Agricultural Development Lending Department (in Ln.1276 and
Cr.988), it has been decided that Misr be included in the project provided
that it lend the first 25% of the first allocation to small businesses and
that it maintain the 25% ratio over each additional allocation (para 4.09).
Misr has requested to be included and represents that it will finance small
businesses from the loan. Up until now, Bank Misr's small business customers,
recipients of local currency loans, have not been prepared to assume a foreign
exchange risk, but recognizing that small business customers of DIB and PBDAC
routinely purchase imported equipment and assume the foreign exchange risk,
Bank Misr now intends to advertise the availability of foreign exchange loans
to small businesses.
B. Technical Assistance and Training
Background
4.04     The First Agroindustries Project (Cr. 988-EGT) included a component
for agroindustries training in PBs. This facility has been used unevenly by
the three banks involved in the project, with most efforts having been made by
the PBDAC group. PBDAC has organized four courses in investment financing and
project analysis for agroindustrial purposes. Two of these, each lasting for
two weeks, were for senior management of PBDAC and BDACs whereas the other
two, each of 5-7 weeks duration, were given to middle level managerial and
operational staff. The Institute of National Planning (INP) has been the
executing agency, assisted by EDI of the World Bank. Course programs and
materials have drawn heavily from EDI, and the main part of the material has
already been translated to Arabic. Both the course syllabi and materials are
oriented towards project work, although the background of INP lecturers
appears somewhat lacking in practical experience. A total of 103 staff
members of PBDAC group have been trained in these courses. DIB has given many
of its employees an opportunity to obtain some training related to bank
activities. In 1979/80 the consultancy firm of A. D. Little organized
eight-week courses on investment financing for 40 staff members. Nearly 50
employees have attended some specialized local courses and 15 have been sent
abroad for management and project analysis training. The European Economic
Community has provided a grant to finance a local course for 20 staff members
during 1982. DIB has selected three European consulting groups to compete for
the contract. Bank Misr's efforts in the area of agroindustries training have
been very limited. Only four staff members have been sent to project
appraisal courses organized by INP, and four have attended EDI courses in
Washington. The previous experience of many new staff members at NBD is
relevant to the operations of investment financing, but in the specialized
field of agroindustries lending only two of the staff have received any
training. The situation is similar in the governorate banks belonging to NBD
group and being currently staffed.



-31-
4.05     None of the allocation of US$400,000 under the first agroindustries
project to recruit consultants to advise the PBs on identifying, appraising,
and supervising subprojects has been used. Instead subborrowers have hired
consultants as needed to identify and prepare their own projects and, where
necessary, the cost of these has been covered through subloans. This has
meant that the PBs, instead of aggressively seeking the identification of a
well balanced portfolio of projects, as well as the marketing analysis in
individual appraisals, have largely responded to requests for loans on an
ad hoc basis. A development orientation, however, involves consideration of
the entire subsector with a goal of an overall balance of complementary
investments.   The PBs agreed during the negotiations to proceed with hiring
consultants under Cr.988 in order to be able to benefit from them in the early
stages of the proposed loan. NBD would hire consultants under a separate
budget (3.08). This requirement was communicated to the PBs before
negotiations, while terms of hiring were discussed and agreed during
negotiations. (Terms of reference are in Project File, Annex 5).
Technical Assistance Needs
4.06     In reviewing the current consultancy needs, the main requirements
have been identified in three areas, viz:
(a) Identifying bottlenecks in the agroindustry subsector: to support the
current and future requirements of the agricultural sector and of
consumers of agricultural products is an important objective of the
project. Currently, the agroindustries portfolio in the PBs consists
of many types of agroindustries but is concentrated in a few.
Consultancy inputs in agroindustries identification and development,
including small scale projects, are desired for all PBs with the
exception of DIB. Appointment will proceed as soon as possible in
order that the input will be in the early stage of the loan. A
systematic survey of agroindustrial activities is desirable as a
basis to improve the marketing plans for each bank. Special short
courses and practical field advising and follow-up would be necessary
to implement such plans effectively.
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation, in which assistance would be used to
establish more advanced systems benefitting from the contemporary
level of mechanization (4.18).
(c) Training. All three participating banks under the First
Agroindustries Project have made considerable progress in project
preparation, appraisal and basic lending operation skills at their
head offices (para 4.04). These skills are largely lacking or are
utilized too little to provide the necessary expertise at the branch
office/regional bank level. DIB is an exception, because even their
branch offices do good quality appraisal of smaller projects. Since
there are no operational manuals (or they are very general in nature)
consultancy assistance would be needed to further develop and
standardize the methods and procedures used in



-32-
agroindustries lending, and to prepare such guidelines and manuals.
Improvement is needed in systematically organized project supervision
and follow-up, which has in many cases been mainly oriented to
repayment supervision. Training plans need to be prepared and
related to manpower development plans (not existing) and to
development of new guidelines materials, directing them primarily to
the network of branches and regional banks. Particularly important
is follow-up training and field support, now not available, to ensure
the quality of small project preparation and appraisal in desirable
activities (para 3.03). Connected to special efforts in the small
scale agroindustries sector, the banks have a responsibility for
training the new (primarily small scale enterpreneurs) in basic
business management. A training consultant can assist in preparation
of a syllabus and course material, and in organization of this
training.
4.07     Each bank would be separately responsible for implementing training
of its own staff. It is expected that most staff training would be carried
out by the Institute for National Planning, which has already good experience
in the field of agroindustries training and has established a permanent
relationship with EDI. Basic lending seminars of six weeks duration on topics
from sub-project preparation to loan recovery and evaluation would be given to
all new staff required for implementation of the project (Annex 1, Table 5).
Due to phased recruitment of staff and different schedules in PBs, about 5-6
such courses would be needed. Shorter refresher courses and follow-up
workshops would be needed for the staff trained earlier, particularly those
working in the field. These courses are estimated to number about 10. For
potential small scale enterpreneurs and recent borrowers, the banks would
organize, or have arranged and financed, about 20 courses in basic business
management. In addition, funds would be provided, during the third project
year, for one fellowship in each participating bank for training in
agroindustries lending abroad. These would be granted to the best students in
the local basic agroindustries lending seminars, and would be subject to IBRD
review. The practical arrangements for training were discussed during
negotiations and assurances were obtained that such a program would be
implemented.
C. Onlending Terms and Conditions
4.08     Lending Arrangements.  The loan is proposed to be made to GOE at the
normal Bank rate, and GOE would onlend it to the PBs as agreed in the
subsidiary loan agreement. The PBs would on lend the funds for the foreign
component of subloans at 15% to eligible subborrowers for terms up to 15 years
including a grace period of up to 3.5 years, and for financing the monitoring,
technical assistance, and training components (3.05). As a commitment period
for subloans of three years is proposed from the date of signing of the loan,
the final maturity of the loan would thus fall within about 18 years.
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between PBs and GOE and acceptable to
IBRD would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 4.01).



-33-
4.09     Use of Loan Funds.  The US$79.5 million IBRD loan amount allocated
for agroindustries would be available for financing of agroindustrial
subprojects by the PBs. The credit would not be preallocated between the PBs,
but would be available on a first-come, first-served basis, as an open line of
credit. This approach would reward good performance and promote disbursement
of funds. It will be up to the PBs to generate the volume of business which
they can process. For good order and coordination, the Government, as the
Borrower, has agreed to operate the agroindustries credit as follows; a
start-up fund of $8 million would be assigned to each PB against which it
could make commitments. Bank Misr would be subject to special conditions
(para 4.03). As and when a PB has fully or substantially committed its
portion, GOE would provide it with a further allocation of funds after
appropriate review of and in agreement with IBRD. The review would include
monitoring of observance of covenants and the PBs' utilization of facilities
for training and technical assistance provided under the loan. This process
would be repeated until the full amount of the agroindustries credit has been
made available to the PBs. In the event that, in the judgement of the
Government, any PB has not committed funds available to it within a reasonable
period (measured by performance of other PBs), the uncommitted balance would
be transferred to one or more of the other PBs. The status of commitments
would be periodically reviewed by the Government and the IBRD. Each
allocation of funds assigned to a PB will be subject to the limits on the
financing of small and public sector subborrowers (para 4.14). Assurances on
these points were received during negotiations.
4.10     Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange.  Banks funds would be onlent at
15% with the subborrower bearing the foreign exchange risk between the
Egyptian pound the the US. dollar. Subborrowers would be obligated to repay
their subloans in local currency in an amount equivalent to the foreign
exchange loan at the highest exchange rate declared by the Central Bank of
Egypt at the time of repayment. The Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk between the US dollar and the currencies owed to the Bank. Assurances on
the above points were received during negotiations. In previous loans about
80% to 90% of all agroindustries loans made by the PBs fell under the category
"Food Security Loans", which qualify currently for the subsidized 6% interest
rate for local funds.- However, the foreign exchange funds would be onlent to
ultimate borrowers at nonsubsidized interest rates. This would mean that IBRD
financing, under the project, covering the foreign exchange component (about
60% on average) would carry an interest rate of not less than 15% (11.4% cost
of Bank funds I/ plus amortized commitment charge and front end fee -
equivalent to less than 1/2% - plus 3% margin for PBs). The interest rate for
the foreign exchange component would thus be about the same as the average
projected inflation rate for the years 1982-85, which varies from 14% to 16%.
1/ The loan to the Borrower (GOE) would be made at a variable interest rate,
subject to change every semester and based upon the cost of Bank qualified
borrowings plus one half percent.



-34-
4.11     Appraisals.  The PBs would carry out adequate appraisals of each
subproject,, which would include a detailed review of technical, managerial and
financial aspects and involve field investigation by its technical and banking
staff. These criteria have been established in agreement between the PBs and
IBRD (Project File, Annex 6). An assurance was obtained from PBs that these
criteria would be applied by them and their affiliates appraising each
subproject under the project. The authority delegated to branch offices or
affiliated regional level banks to approve loans would differ with the
practice of each bank, but all subprojects bigger than LE500,000 (total
investment, or loan amount over LE400,000) would need to be appraised by the
head office units of participating banks. Appraisals made by branches,
regional and governorate banks of small subprojects are to be supervised
satisfactorily by specialized head office units.
4.12     The first subproject in each subsector (for each bank) would be
reviewed and approved by IBRD in cases where the Bank has not previously
financed such an activity for that PB. If satisfied, thereafter only
investments above the free limit (4.13) would be sent to, reviewed and
approved by IBRD. The other subproject reports would be retained at PBs.
IBRD staff would review a selected number of these smaller subprojects during
the supervision visits to Egypt. Thus, applications for subloans of or below
the free limit need to be supported only by a summary description in an agreed
format, upon receipt of which the Bank would normally authorize prompt
withdrawal.
4.13     Limits.  Subject to the procedure of paragraph 4.12, the free limit
for other subloans is proposed to be $1.0 million. The proposed free limit of
$1.0 million is considered appropriate after a review of current project
pipelines, the appraisal capabilities of PBs and adjustment for inflation. 1/
There would be no aggregate free limit. It is expected that about 15-20% of
subprojects accounting for about 50% of the loan amount would be over the free
limit and would be submitted to the Bank for prior review before PBs'
approval. An upper limit for individual subloans would be US$2 million (para
3.04). No more than 25% of project funds would be used for any single
eligible activity (para 3.03). Assurances on these points were received
during negotiations.
4.14     Lending to Small Scale Entrepreneurs.  One objective of the project
is to increase the access of small businesses to institutional financing and
to develop a broader enterpreneurial basis in the country. Accordingly, the
PBs would be expected to make special efforts to reach out to such entities.
For the purposes of this project, and unless otherwise agreed between the
Government and the Bank Group, a "small subborrower" is defined as a
subborrower with fixed assets (excluding lands and buildings), valued at not
more than LE500,000 in 1982 prices, and applying for a subloan not exceeding
LE400,000 equivalent. Not less than 25% of each allocation would be reserved
for financing small subborrowers. The PBs have agreed to make every effort to
ensure that subloans would be made to as large a number of subborrowers as
feasible. Also, in line with the project objective of encouraging the
1/ The limit is the same as in DIB V Project financed by Bank Group.



-35-
financing of private sector investments, not more than 25% of the IBRD loan
proceeds could be utilized for financing state owned subprojects. 1/ Suitable
assurances on these aspects were received from GOE and PBs during negotiations.
4.15     The PBs would continue present practices for separate minimum
subborrower contributions by small and other subborrowers to the financing of
the cost of subprojects; for small subborrowers this would normally be 15 to
20%. The share of IBRD financing for subloans would be 60% with subborrowers
contributing an average of 30% and the PBs providing the balance of each
subproject cost. Subloan amortization schedules would be based on projected
cash flows and debt repayment capacities of subprojects as analyzed by the
PBs. The schedule of repayment to the Borrower of the IBRD loan amount
withdrawn by each PB would conform substantially to the aggregate of the
subloan amortization schedules for the respective PB. The security or
collateral required by the PBs of subborrowers would be governed by their
present, generally conservative practices which follow legal or statutory
requirements in their strictest interpretation. For example, only "real",
i.e., fixed assets can be accepted as security. However, as the project
implementation proceeds and the PBs gain experience in medium- and long-term
lending, the Bank would expect greater emphasis on the future financial
prospects of subborrowers as well.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.16     Project accounting and audit procedures would be in line with the
other Bank Group projects in which DIB, Bank Misr and PBDAC are
participating. All participating banks would prepare annual budgets,
quarterly progress reports, summary loan statements, and annual accounts as
they relate to project activities. Each participating bank and its affiliated
banks or concerned branch offices would maintain detailed memoranda of
records, ledger and control accounts relating to subproject cycle progress
including appraisals, approvals, disbursements, contributions by borrowers,
interest charges, installments due, collections, overdues and follow-up
action. These records would be reviewed periodically by IBRD review
missions. The information would be summarized in semi-annual progress reports
(4.19). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that copies of annual
work programs and related cost estimates would be made available to IBRD
before the start of each financial year.
4.17     The PBs are audited by different audit companies and organizations.
DIB's financial statements are audited by Z. and H. Hassan Co., a reputable
firm of chartered accountants associated with Messrs. Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
and Co. The auditors of Bank Misr are M. Shawky and F.A. El Sawaf, chartered
accountants who appear to be well qualified. NBD has selected M. Hassiq and
H.Z. Hassan, also chartered accountants, as their auditors. PBDAC is audited
by the state owned but independent Central Agency for Auditing, which has
1/ This is similar to the requirement under Cr.988. In practice no public
sector subprojects were forthcoming (although several subborrowers have
state owned backing).



-36-
under other projects been dee,oed to be an acceptable audit agency to IBRD.
They have also appointed a quailified, independent auditor, Mr. Mokhtar. Under
the project, the PBs would be required to submit the audited statements of
project accounts and related audit reports to the Bank within nine months
after the end of the financial year. An assurance to this effect was obtained
during the negotiations as well as to the effect that the audit arrangements
of the PBs themselves would continue to be satisfactory to the Bank Group and
comprehensive audit reports of the PBs' financial statements be submitted to
the Bank within nine months from the end of each financial year. The PBs
would be responsible for seeing that the accounts of affiliated banks
participating in project implementation would have satisfactory arrangements
for accounting for project funds and these banks would have their accounts
audited according to the same requirements set out for PBs.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.18     Monitoring and evaluation systems aim at providing management with
timely information about developments in the field and in different
organizational units connected with the project. They permit an overview of
implementation and operations and early follow-up and correction of possible
deviations from timetables and objectives. Formal monitoring is undeveloped
in participating banks, except in DIB, which over the years has through its
own efforts and with assistance and advice from consultants and IBRD developed
suitable procedures. Currently, DIB is combining monitoring as a part of an
overall computerized management information system with the help of a
consultancy company (Price Waterhouse) financed by USAID. The other banks
also have a basis in their reporting arrangements for individual
agroindustrial projects to build up a management oriented monitoring system.
However, much development work will be needed before the monitoring data
desired (Project File, Annex 7) can be expected to be available with the
regularity and in format suitable for efficient management actions. This work
demands sophisticated methods for data flows and statistical presentation,
knowledge of practical and time-saving procedures, and experience of such
operations in banking. Such expertise should be combined with knowledge of
project evaluation (measurement of project benefits in relation to intended
objectives aimed to'be achieved through the sub-projects). This has not yet
been planned in any of the banks, and specialist assistance would be required
to establish suitable procedures. Consultants would be available under the
on-going Agroindustries Project (Cr. 988)(see also paragraph 4.05). With
their help and with the technology available and provided for under this
project, PBs would develop the capacity and procedures of their Monitoring and
Evaluation units, link these tools with overall Management Information
Systems, and thus provide relevant data continuously for management's
follow-up and decision-making.
4.19     The project and monitoring staff would produce monthly reports based
on the data flow created by the systems. The PBs would submit to GOE and IBRD
semi-annual progress reports in reduced format of the monitoring reports
(Project File, Annex 7), complemented with management observations. All
participating banks



-37-
would be requested to prepare, either themselves or by appropriate
institutions on contract basis, two evaluation reports each year on the most
important types of agroindustrial projects in their portfolio to verify
continued feasibility of such investments. Copies of the evaluation reports
would be sent to IBRD for information and comments. GOE would be responsible
for coordinating preparation of the project completion report. Assurances as
regards the regularity and format of progress reports. orRanization and
comprehensiveness of monitoring and evaluation, and preparatio-. and submission
of evaluation reports to IBRD were obtained during negotiatio:s



-38-
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Credit Component
5.01     Major benefits expected from the agroindustries to be financed under
the credit component of the project include:
-  reduiction in waste as a result of improved storage, processing, and
transport;
-  provision of increased volume of food staples to serve a growing
population;
-  creation of rural employment for males and females;
-  extending marketing regions, with potential increase in producer
incomes;
-  improvement in diets from provision of greater variety of foods
available;
-  contribution to balance of payments through encouragement of export
industries as well as import substitution.
An important means of attaining these benefits is that the project would
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the participating banks through
technical assistance to build up the linkage with small and medium sized
agroindustries, many of whom have no access to medium term credit. The
project would also provide support to the training capabilities of a national
organization (The Institute of National Planning).
B. Beneficiaries
5.02     Beneficiaries under the project include:  (i) urban consumers,
through the increased availability of food and the improvement in its quality
through better processing and storage; (ii) farmers, who would have increased
markets for their products; and (iii) workers in jobs created by the project.
Based on a ratio of retail revenues to assets of at least two to one,
representative of agroindustries, the agroindustries credit of US$133 million
equivalent may be expected to generate about twice that figure in value of
annual output (even excluding the proportion exported). The project involves
modernization and expansion of existing productive facilities as well as
creation of new facilities with expectation of resulting increases in
productivity of the existing labor force and creation of new employment,
respectively. Calculations, albeit based on the direct employment impact of
four illustrative agroindustries models show an estimated 5,000 to 8,000 jobs
may be expected to be generated by the project.



-39-
C. Financial and Economic Rate of Return, Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
5.03     Specific subprojects to be financed under the project are not yet
known. Indicative financial rates of return (FRR) for agroindustries of the
types likely to be financed under the project are in the order of 25% on total
assets employed and 30% on owner's equity (after taxes). These calculations
are based upon models in Project File, Annex 8 of representative actual
investments (dairy processing, bakery, cold store, and egg farm). The FRR to
all resources are calculated respectively as dairy processing plant 44%; egg
farm (15 million eggs per year) 16%; cold store (renting space for meat and
vegetables) 17%; bakery 23%. Subprojects involving modernization are likely
to show higher rates of return because of the effect of sunk costs, while
projects involving price controlled products will show lower but still
satisfactory financial rates of return, as the Government's price policy does
allow for a profit margin and an annual return on invested funds of
approximately 20%. Economic rates of return (ERR) are higher than the
opportunity cost of capital as shown by analyses of illustrative models which
show ERRs ranging from 17% to 25%.
5.04     Risk and Sensitivity Analysis.  The types of agroindustries proposed
to be financed under the project are mostly relatively simple in technology
and associated with projects which are already in operation. Moreover, many
ventures are to be undertaken by the private sector, where the investor has
considerable incentive to implement the subproject successfully. Although a
number of agroindustries in Egypt depend largely upon imported grain, their
classification by GOE as "food security" projects makes it unlikely that they
would be subject to arbitrary cutoff of raw materials. A major risk in the
project could be associated with failure to commit funds to complementary and
supporting investments (para 3.03) needed to preclude distribution bottlenecks
as a result of the quality of performance of the intermediary PBs. But this
risk is minimized by retaining consultants to identify such bottlenecks, and
limiting investment in anyone eligible activity to 25% of funds (para 4.13).
Sensitivity tests on indicative agroindustry models show that the rates of
return for these enterprises are more sensitive to reductions in revenues than
to investment or operating cost increases of similar magnitude. Typical of
the four illustrative models, the bakery subproject has a base FRR of 23%.
With a 10% increase in both investment and operating costs, the rate of return
drops to 15%. When benefits decrease by 10%, the FRR drops to 14%. As a
majority of the enterprises are expected to be in the private sector, they
will have some ability to vary their prices outside Government edict, and
thereby cover inflationary increases in operating costs.



-40-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
A. The Government would:
(i) enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with Bank Misr, PBDAC, DIB,
and NBD (the PBs) on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.01);
(ii) in coordinating the credit component ensure
(a) the observance of the minimum limit of financing from the loan
of "small" subprojects (para 4.14);
(b) the observance of the maximum limit for financing of state owned
subprojects (para 4.14);
(c) the limitation on any single activity (para 4.13); and
(d) a general upper limit of US$2 million per subloan (para 4.13);
(iii) oversee allocations of funds to individual PBs (para 4.09);
B. The PBs would;
(i) onlend the Bank loan proceeds at annual rates of interest of not less
than 15%, with the exchange risk between the dollar and the Egyptian
pound borne by subborrowers (para 4.10); and
(ii) engage consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.05).
(iii) follow subproject appraisal criteria (para 4.11).
(iv) observe auditing (para 4.17), reporting (para 4.19), and monitoring
and evaluation (para 4.19) covenants;
(v) ensure that staff training courses are organized (para 4.07).
6.02     Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PBs for the credit component of the project will be the condition of
effectiveness (paras 4.01 and 4.08).
6.03     The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$81.2 million to
the Arab Republic of Egypt on the above terms and conditions.



-41-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Development Industrial Bank
(Amounts in LE M)
Accounting Information                       1978        1979      19801/     1980/81
Assets 2/                                    48.3        85.3      129.0      201.8
Total Loans Outstanding 2/                   46.1        75.1      121.8      183.5
Debts (liabilities less own capital) 2/   35.6           60.4      100.3      160.1
-of which deposits                           7.1        10.4      15.5        32.8
Share and Reserve Capital 2/                 12.4        24.1       27.0       39.6
-of which bad debts reserve                  2.2         4.0        6.2       11.3
Income                                        4.5         7.6       13.5       23.1
-of which interest onlending                 3.7         6.5      12.0        20.7
Expenditure                                   4.2         6.8       11.8       21.0
-of which admin. expenses                    0.9         1.3       1.6         2.7
Net Surplus                                   0.3         0.8        1.7        2.1
Own Capital 3/                               12.7        24.9       28.7       41.7
Overdues, total                               1.3         3.1        2.5        3.5
Overdues, over 2 years                        0.2         0.8        0.2        0.5
Annual Repayment Requirement 4/
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                       1:3.8       1:3.4      1:4.5      1:4.8
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding            1:3.6       1;3.2     1;4.2       1:4.4
Deposits to Loans Outstanding %              15.4        13.9       12.8       17.9
Overdues to Own Capital (%)                  10.2        12.5        8.7        8.4
Over 2 Years Overdues to own Capital          1.6         3.2        0.7        1.2
Debts to Equity (own Capital)               2.8:1       2.4:1      3.5:1      3.8:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (X)          0.7         1.1        1.4        1.1
Net Surplus to Income (%)                     6.7        10.5       12.6        9.1
Net Surplus as Return on of
Share and Reserve Capital (X)               2.4         3.3       6.3         5.3
Bad Debts Reserve to over
2 Years Overdues (%)                    1100.0       500.0    3100.0       2260.0
Overdues to Assets                         1;37.2      1;27.5    1;51.6      1:57.7
Overdues to Loans Outstanding (%)             2.8         4.1        2.1        1.9
Overdues to Annual Repayment
Requirement (%) 4/
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (%)        2.0         1.7        1.3         1.5
1/ The end of the financial year changed from December to June.
2/ Including Provisions for Doubtful Debts, which had been deducted from the
balance sheet figures.
3/ Share Capital, Reserves and Net Profit.
4/ Data not collected or available.



-42-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
EGYPT
SECOND AGR0INDtUSRIES PROJECT
Financial and Performanrze Ratios:  Prirripal Bank and its Affiliates
Atmxints in LE million)
Accaintingg Information                    1977       1978      1979      1980 /1      1980/81
Assets                                    282.5      336.7     376.7     510.3        758.2
Total Loans Outstanding 2/                161.2     175.1      145.5     235.8       390.0
Debts (liabilities less own capital)      268.0     315.2      322.5     450.5       659.3
-of which deposits 10/                    43.6      61.5      111.7     124.1       197.1
Share and Reserve Capital                   3.3       6.3      54.2       59.8        98.9
-of which Bad Debts Reserve                1.3       3.1       27.7      29.3        35.3
Income 4/                                  50.6      62.7       85.7      55.6       178.8  11/
-of which interest on lending 3/          24.2      32.1       41.7      23.5        37.1
Expenditure  5/                            39.2      47.5       65.2      34.6       106.9
-of which admin. expenses                 14.0      20.3       23.4      15.6        40.9
Net Surplus                                10.2      15.2       20.5      21.0        71.9
Own Capital 6/                             14.5      21.5       54.2      59.8        98.9
Overdues, total 7/                         24.2      20.2       16.5      13.0           9/
Overdues, over 2 years  7/                  4.0       3.9        2.7       3.8          9/
Annual Repayment Requirent 7/             118.0      126.4     134.2     154.5           9/
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                    1;19.4    1:15.7      1:6.9     1:8.5       1:7.7
OWn Capital to Loans Outstanding         1:11.1     1:8.1      1:2.6     1;3.9       1:3.9
Deposits to Loans Outstanding %            27.0      35.0       77.0      52.6        50.5
Overdues to Own Capital (%)  7/              9/         9/      30.5      27.7           9/
Over 2 Years Overdues to Own Capital  7/    9/         9/        5.0       6.3          9/
Debts to Equity (own Capital)           18.5:1    14.6:1       5.9:1     7.5:1       6.6:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (7)        6.3       8.7       14.1       9.6        18.4
Net Surplus to Ircxne (7)                  20.2      24.2       23.9      37.8        40.4
Net Surplus as Return on
Share and Reserve Capital (.)            70.3      70.7       27.4      26.0        72.7
Bad Debts Reserve to over
2 Years Overdues (X) 7/                  32.5      79.5   1,075.9      771.0          9/
Overdues to Assets (x)  7/                   9/        9/        4.5       3.0          9/
Overdues to Loans Outstanding (%)  7/        9/        9/       12.3       6.7          9/
Overdues to Annual Repayment
Requirement (X) 7/                       16.1      12.4        8.5       6.3          9/
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (x)      8.7      11.6       16.0      13.8 /8     10.5
Adm. Expenses to Receivables (7.)           5.0       6.1        6.4       6.1         5.8
1/ Thle end of the financial year changed from December to June (income and expenditure
for 1/2 year only).
2/ Due from Goveramwnt, govermnent bodies, and farmers.
3/ Interest actually collected plus net incrae fron previous year.
4/ Accounting income activitywise (not deducting general indirect expenditure), net
profit fron subsidiary banks, net imcome relating to previous year, and dividends and
other revenue.
5/ General indirect expenses plus loans, interest, and taxes.
6/ Share capital, reserves (including net profit transferred to reserves) igioring the
accumulated losses prior to 1977, which were wiped off finally in 1981.
7/ Only PBDAC, not affiliated banks.
8/ Trend data used for one of the figures; contains also the expenses for
fann supply operations.
9/ Data not collected or available.
10/ Due to cooperative societies.
11/ Contains subsidy payment by the GOE (LE40.0 million).



-43-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Bank Misr
(Amounts in LE M)
Accounting Information                      1978       1979       1980 1/  1980/81
Assets                                    1,482.5   1,890.3   2,200.3   2,811.7
Total Loans Outstanding                     761.4      998.6   1,106.3   1,719.5
Debts (liabilities less own capital)  1,446.7   1,842.3   2,146.6   2,746.0
-of which deposits                       1,035.7   1,344.9   1,576.7   1,860.0
Share and Reserve Capital                    36.0       48.0       53.7       65.7
-of which Bad Debts Reserve 2/
Income                                       94.5      135.9       90.2      238.4
-of which interest on lending 3/            64.5       95.6       63.8      177.8
Expenditure                                  48.9       71.2       52.0      150.9
-of which admin. expenses 4/                18.2       21.6       12.9       37.0
Net Surplus                                  44.5       64.7       38.2       87.5
Own Capital 6/                               80.5      132.7                 153.2
Overdues, total 2/
Overdues, over 2 years 2/
Ratios
Owni Capital to Assets                     1:18.5    1;14.3    1:15.4    1:18.4
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding            1:9.5      1;7.5      1:7.7 5/ 1:11.2
Deposits to Loans Outstanding X             136.1      134.6      142.6      108.0
Overdues to Own Capital (%) 2/
Over 3 Years Overdues to Own Capital 2/
Debts to Equity (own Capital)              18.1:1    14.3;1    15.0;1    17.9:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (X)          5.8        6.5        6.0 5/    5.1
Net Surplus to Income (%)                    46.8       47.6       42.4       36.8
Net Surplus as Return on of
Share and Reserve Capital (! )            123.6      134.8      140.7 5/  132.5
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (7)    2.4            2.2         2.7        2.2
1/ Change of the end of financial year from December to June.
2/ Data not collected or available.
3/ Actual interest received.
4/ Staff expenses, expenditure on equipment and services.
5/ Average figure between years 1979 and 1980/81 for one of the items has been
used.
6/ Share Capital, Reserves and Net Profit.



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table 4
EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: National Bank for Development
(Amounts in LE M)
1980/81
Accounting Information
Assets                                                   150.9
Total Loans Outstanding                                   66.7
Debts (liabilities less own capital)                     120.7
-of which deposits                                       75.8
Share and Reserve Capital                                 23.5
-of which Bad Debts Reserve                               0.9
Income                                                    12.2
-of which interest on lending                             8.4
Expenditure                                                5.4
-of which admin. expenses                                 1.5
Net Surplus                                                6.8
Own Capital 1/                                            30.3
Overdues, total 2/
Overdues, over 3 years 2/
Ratios
Owni Capital to Assets                                   1;5.0
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding                         1:2.2
Deposits to Loans Outstanding                            1:3.6
Overdues to Own Capital (%) 2/
Over 3 Years Overdues to Own Capital 2/
Debts to Equity (own Capital)                            4.0:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (x)                      10.2
Net Surplus to Income (%)                                 55.7
Net Surplus as Return on of
Share and Reserve Capital (%)                           22.4
Bad Debts Reserve to over
3 Years Overdues (%) 2/
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (%)                     2.2
1/ Share Capital, Reserves and Net Profit.
21 Not applicable after one year's operations.



-45-
ANNEK 1
Table 5
EYPT
SEOJND A(ROINDUSTRIES PROJEC?
Staff Requirements for Agroindustrial Mediun and long-Term
Lending by Participating Banks
(LE M1ILLONS)
DIB        NBD         PBIAC       MISR      ToI9L
Estimated Nimber of Sub-Loans 1/
a) If total loan LE 70 M                       87          68           68         67         290
-Annual                                              29        23            23        27
b) If total loan LE 100 Mi                    126          98           98         97         420
-Annual                                             42         33           33         32
Requirenent of Professional Staff,
Case a) 2/                                     7-16 3/   6-13          6-13        6-13     25-55
Case b) 2/                                    10-22       9-19         9-19        9-19     37-79
Professional Project Staff for
Agroindustries (March 1982)
-= Head Office                                  6   6/      2           10         20          64
-  Branches/Regional Banks                      2   6/      -           80 4/    -             88 4/
Current Staff Available for New Projects 5/  1 & 1          -         2 & 16        4       7 & 16
Additional Staff Required,
Case a)                                        6-14       6-13         4-10 7/    2-9       18-46
Case b)                                        9-20       9-19         7-15 7/    5-15      30-69
1/ Assuan-rg that 33%. is used for small scale sub-projects, averaging LE 100,000, and the rest
for bigger projects, averaging LE 700,000 - 800,000. Based on assessment of pipelines, staff
capacity and network in 1981. DIB has been estimated to use about 3CYo of project funds, and
the remaining 70% is divided evenly betwen the other banks (Note: this is not a target, but
estimation for this table).
2/ Staff time needed has been estimated to be as follows. each new project requires 2-3
man-months of professional manpower during the year of preparation and appraisal, and 1-2
manmnnnths during the following years for supervision, follow-ps and transactions.
3/ In the range of staff requirement the first figure refers to first project year, the last one
- to third project year.
4/ Trained, but only partly utilized.
5/ Due to increasing supervision tasks arising from already approved (and undersupervised)
projects, only 20% of current staff can be reserved for work on new projects.  The second
figure refers to branch offices.
6/ Out of the total 40 project staff, about 20% belongs to agroindustries.
7/ Refers to H/Q staff, even with further delegation to govermorate banks.



-46-
ANNEX 2
EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
ANNEX 1     Prices and Subsidies
ANNEX 2     Banking and Financing of Agroindustries in Egypt
ANNEX 3     Lending Projections for Agroindustrial Medium- and Long-Term Loans
by Participating Banks
ANNEX 4     Agroindustries Projects Launched under Investment Law 43 up to 71,
December 1979.
ANNEX 5     Terms of Reference for the Consultants
ANNEX 6     Criteria for Appraisal of Subprojects
ANNEX 7     Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
ANNEX 8     Investment Demand and Subproject Analysis



28'                                             30'                                  DAMIETTA   3 2                                              343
M  2  w >-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-EAD Al  Ez"                                                                                  5 _
a-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Maoa                 Aeaard'-.<A9_ X  DrmonkerQ~   lrf      i    ,F ,n*Lwrd     a
a'  AEl E.-                                       . I' I     Q
_305~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~                                            EIBa'W0           CIR 6co ">4            K  .Oor'o,
Ott~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 
0 ~            ~            0
9,
0       ~~~                                                             1        Suef        '           :-  ; iV   a    abu Zemmo~~~~~~~~~~~,1Oc
28-                                                                                                                                                           N
ARAB REPIUBLIC  OF EGYPT                                                                 5                                   .,tiSHm C A'
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                                                               -                                TIE.e;
-   -   App--t.r l g.--w.t Dudois X
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
o    M :lor c:eles rJnd towns                                                      Id+,,O P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  o,
=          R,-er
-- - -_=    W-d S                                                                                                             @F> Cm
20'  20  40   S0 S0 100 K02
0   20     40       60 M s
A'WAll DAM    su
-24'                                                                                                                                      Suhor .   CLlyog!    \          24a-
a                                                                        ,                                                                      rr r
I~~~~~~AD  .ARABIA
RailIoyJ ,o                                                                                                                     . [
;,~~~~~~ .    laera cora ;bo_jKiT ndPo 1                                                                                            h1  ear as   /    
N~~~~~~~ Maor c  g/~    ...%5.rim e seu and tows l   -
_  =          I        ~      ~      ~~        ~~o 20 , 406 00   &/ 1000                                                   __       ___ __ ._._ara
o[  :g 40         OOrYI.a



