Document of
The World Bank                      L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3426-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$81.2 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
February 8, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   US$1.43
1 US Dollar ($)       = LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   US$1.20
1 US Dollar ($)       = LE 0.84
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
DIB   - Development Industrial Bank
GNP   - Gross National Product
NBD   - National Bank for Development
PB    - Participating Bank
PBDAC - Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:                Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit (PBDAC)
Bank Misr
National Bank for Development (NBD)
Amount:                       US$81.2 million equivalent, including capitalized
front end fee.
Terms:                        Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:              US$79.5 million equivalent would be available, as
required, to DIB, PBDAC, Bank Misr and NBD and
onlent to subborrowers at 15%. The exchange risk
between the Egyptian pound and the US dollar
would be borne by the subborrower; the exchange
risk with other currencies would be borne by the
Government. At the same rate, US$0.5 million
equivalent would be lent to the banks for
monitoring and evaluation, training and technical
assistance.
Project Description:          The project would assist the four participating
banks to finance agroindustrial investments
throughout Egypt, including facilities for
processing, marketing and distributing basic
foodstuffs and associated service and input
activities. It would also provide technical
assistance to strengthen the banks' lending
programs. Major benefits from the project
include reduction in waste of agricultural
products, provision of increased amount and
greater variety of foods, and employment
creation. The main risk is that the banks may
not be able to commit and disburse funds
expediently; competition among the four
participating banks, and the provision of
consulting assistance to strengthen bank loan
processing, should help minimize this risk.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Project Costs: 1/
Local   Foreign   Total
---US$ million---
Agroindustries Subprojects             53.11      79.66  132.77
Monitoring and Evaluation               0.06       0.14    0.20
Training and Fellowships                0.05       0.05    0.10
Technical Assistance
for NBD                              0.06       0.09    0.15
Total Baseline Costs                   53.28     79.94  133.22
Physical Contingencies                  0.01       0.01    0.02
Price Contingencies                     0.04       0.05    0.09
Total Project Costs                    53.33      80.00  133.33
Front End Fee                            -         1.20    1.20
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                   53.33      81.20  134.53
Financing Plan:                            Local   Foreign   Total
---US$ Million---
Bank Loan                                -       81.20   81.20
Participating Banks                    13.33      -       13.33
Subborrowers                          40.00       -       40.00
53.33     81.20  134.53
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank Fiscal Year        83    84    85    86    87    88
----…U   Mill ion----------
Annual                 2.0  14.0  24.0  21.2  12.0   8.0
Cumulative            2.0  16.0  40.0  61.2  73.2  81.2
Rate of Return:       About 20% based on representative investments.
Appraisal Report:    No. 4047-EGT, dated November 11, 1982.
1/ Including customs duties and taxes, which amount to less than 5 percent of
project costs.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOIR A SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$8l.2 million to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a Second Agroindustries project. The
proposed loan would be repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy. Following an extended period of inward-looking and
centralist economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a new
"Open Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development
by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was progress
towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic expansion
and greater prosperity.
4.       Throughout the second half of the 1970's, external circumstances
as well as domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the economy.
The emergence of a stron,g petroleum sector with a substantial exportable
surplus, large flows of workers' remittances, the successful reopening of the
Suez Canal and the growth of the tourism industry, complemented by substantial
long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to reduce considerably the stringent
resource shortages of the early 1970's. Egypt entered the 1980's with a much
stronger resource base and a somewhat smaller current account deficit; but the
needs of the rapidly growing population remained and are still immense. At
present, 43 million people have only about 39,000 km2 of usable land. While
Egypt's population has doubled in the last three decades, the cultivated area
1/ This section is virtually the same as Part I of the President's Report for
the El Dikheila Port Project (P-3338-EGT), dated May 25, 1982.



- 2 -
has increased by less than 5%. Moreover, the physical and social
infrastructure of the country has suffered from long years of insufficient
investment, inadequate maintenance and the effects of war. Low productivity
and underemployment affect many parts of the economy and the consumption
capacity of the poor has improved marginally. Maintaining rapid growth will
require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming these constraints. In
particular, continued progress depends crucially on: (i) the mobilization of
large national and foreign resources to finance high levetls of investment;
(ii) substantial increases in the productivity of capital and labor based on
institutional reforms and effective investment planning; and (iii) an
equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits associated with
economic growth.
5.       After taking office in October of 1981, President Mubarak expressed
his firm intention to accord top priority to economic issues. The outward-
looking "Open Door" strategy favorable to foreign investment will be
maintained. The process of liberalization is to be complemented, however,
by increased emphasis on population and human resource planning, the
rationalization of consumption with a view to ensuring greater social equity,
and a more comprehensive process of investment planning designed to economize
resources and channel a greater share of investment into the productive
sectors in order to foster increased productivity and employment. These are
some of the key conclusions emerging from a special economic conference
convened by the President in February 1982. The Government has been working
toward an economic program aimed at achieving these objectives and meeting the
difficult challenges that lie ahead.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1979/80, and (ii) starting in the
summer of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shortages triggered by the
decline in oil prices and an apparent slowdown in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall GDP growth averaged about 10%
in constant (80/81) prices. This very high growth rate reflects the emergence
of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry, transportation, trade,
finance and Suez Canal traffic. Agricultural growth remained very modest at
around 2.2%, but overall performance in agriculture improved compared to the
1965-1975 period when growth had averaged only 1.5% per year. Egypt's severe
land constraint makes rapid agricultural growth a very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000 b/d
(30 million tons a year), compared to 220,000 b/d in 1975 and 420,000 b/d in
1977, with the Egyptian share of exports (net of partner companies' share)
reaching 240,000 b/d by the end of 1980. This very rapid growth in output
coincided with sharp rises in spot prices on the world market, leading to
large increases in export revenues, from US$289 million in 1975 to
US$2.7 billion in 1980.



- 3 -
9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching US$2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1975 and US$897 million in 1977. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism
revenues reached US$663 million and US$775 million respectively, compared to
US$85 million and US$322 million in 1975. As a result, and despite large
increases in imports (US$8.1 billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in
1975), the current account deficit narrowed to less than 7.4% of GDP (US$1.6
billion) in 1980, compared to 18.8% in 1975.
10.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations. The overall public sector resource gap which was 23.2% of GDP
in 1975, narrowed to 12.8% in 1977, widened to 17.5% in 1979, before declining
again to 12.8% in 1980/81. At the same time, inflation emerged as a principal
policy concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy,
and resource allocation and investment decisions were centrally determined.
Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative
prices may have been out of line with world prices, price rigidity did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply problems in several key sectors, such as
construction and related activities, and agriculture. Effective demand,
especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income gains
that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and other receipts.  All
these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic prices. In a
country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where there are no
easily functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in wages and
salaries, the required price changes appeared large and inequitable, given the
substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did, in fact, surge
upward. However, in the controlled sector, which still dominates the economy,
although some small price increases were allowed for, major adjustments could
not be achieved. Therefore, the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods continuously increased, leading to large implicit
and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted system of
relative prices and incentives.
11.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive. To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not have full or even
partial control. In the summer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. First, oil prices
started to decline. The premium Suez Blend Crude declined from the US$40 peak
reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$35 in the fall of 1981 and US$32 by
March of 1982. The heavier crudes also declined in price: compared to fiscal
year 1980/81, the average barrel exported showed a 10.5% decline in value for
fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the decline in oil export
prices, workers' remittarLces decreased below the levels achieved in 1980/81.
Finally Suez Canal revenues that had been expected to increase substantially



-4 -
after the enlargement of the Canal, failed to show significant growth,
reflecting excess supply conditions on the international oil market as well as
the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of trade.
12.      These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion. The impact of the export shortfEall on the current
account deficit was to some extent contained because of the decline in prices
for food imports and the reduction in non-food imports through tighter import
restrictions and a cutback in investment spending. Nevertheless, the current
account deficit widened from $2.3 billion in 1980/81 to $3.3 billion in
1981/82 (13.8% of GDP compared to 9.7% for 1980/81). The bulk of this deficit
was covered by medium and long-term capital inflows, although the
deterioration in the overall balance has required some recourse to short-term
borrowing. Similar difficulties are affecting the fiscal situation. The
overall public sector resource gap widened to 22% of GDP in 1981/82 (from 16%
in 1980/81). As a result, there has been a large increase in domestic bank
financing of the budget, from about LE 450 million in 1980/81 to about LE 2.4
billion in 1981/82. Accompanied by rapid expansion of credit to the private
sector, this financing has led to a marked acceleration in monetary growth,
with money supply (excluding foreign currency deposits) increasing at a rate
close to 40% per annum, thus creating additional inflationary pressures.
13.      So far, the primary policy response to the deteriorating trend has
been a tightening of imports and credit, and an apparent slowdown in
investment spending. Largely because of these short-term measures, the
deteriorating trend in the balance of payments has stabilized, and the current
account deficit is expected to be somewhat lower in FY82/83 than in the
preceding year. The budget deficit is, however, expected to remain large at
about 19% of GDP. Moreover, although Egypt has recorded a very high rate of
growth in recent years (around 8% per annum), the tight credit and import are
now beginning to impact on the pace of economic activity and growth.
14.      While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy. The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai compleLed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.
This, together with some improvement in Suez Canal traffic, could help
strengthen the balance of payments and Government finances. Nonetheless,
while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural problems remain
a major challenge which the Government needs to address if the country is to
sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for its people.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied



raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The graclual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physical infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has been slowed down
by administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.      In addition, the! rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22% of GDP but
only 1% of total employment. While tourism and remittances directly touch the
lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot provide a solid basis
for employment expansion and technological development. Moreover, the
long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum, Suez and
remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of
channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from these
sources into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
17.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's
population is already very large for its limited usable land area, with an
average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher than that of Bangladesh or
Indonesia. Recent census; results show that population has continued to grow
at an annual rate exceeding 2.5%, adding almost one million people every
year. Moreover, almost half of this increase is concentrated in the greater
Cairo area. This continues to create pressures on resources for consumption
and investment and aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.
Although the Government has initiated a more aggressive population program, it
will take considerable time and further steps to achieve measurable results.
18.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty are no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious distortions.
19.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful



indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these important issues between the Egyptian authorities
and the Bank. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members
of the Consultative Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done on trying
to formulate practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these
constraints in a gradual yet effective manner. Particular consideration is
being given by the Government and the Bank to the social implications of
alternative strategies in the full realization that progress can only last
if it ensures broad based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1982 is estimated at about US$15.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 61% of the debt outstanding while the shares
of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were about 22% and 10%,
respectively, with the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major
creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 7% of the total disbursed debt. Despite the
sharp increase in the level of external debt during the last decade--from
US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to an estimated US$15.6 billion at end-June
1982--the debt service ratio declined from 33% in 1973 to about 19% in 1981/82
reflecting the sharply increased foreign exchange earnings and favorable
credit terms.
21.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates. As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but should remain manageable in the 20-25% range. Over the longer term, the
balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
22.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty--third lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to US$2,627.1
million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, energy, water supply, family
1/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the El Dikheila Port Project (P--3338-EGT), dated
May 25, 1982.



-7-
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30,
1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors.
Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberately broad
multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to
the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to
address these issues and implement the programs.
24.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government
looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of the
economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, and
generate an "export surpLus". Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone
beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization (two imports
loans/credit) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential
commodities in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at
introducing policy and sitructural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank
has financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To complement these efforts
the Bank has carried out a study on small-scale industries. The Bank has also
assisted the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction/
contracting industry (one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry
today). The Bank propos,es to support the Government's efforts in carrying out
the recommendations of tlnese studies. Finally, the Bank is working with the
Government on a study of Trade Strategy, Investment Planning and Shadow Prices
which focuses on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment
program in the context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
25.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the Bank's intervention in
one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that it has adopted
in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a
role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes but is
welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appropriate
function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group. Preparation



- 8 -
of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and the pipeline
includes projects in education, gas development, urban development,
transportation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
26.      Bank Group disbursements in FY82 represented 5% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectiveLy, as of June 30,
1982. In FY85, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0% and
3.1%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY85, debt service payments due
to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6% and 0.2%, respectively, of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt. Reflecting the increased level
of commitments and delays in the initiation of some of the projects, loan
disbursements slowed down in FY82. (In FY82 the disbursement percentage rate
was 16.5%; the EMENA Regional average was 19.3%.) As project execution
accelerates, loan disbursements should improve gradually.
27.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total about
US$83 million and include: a ceramics project, a ready-made garment project,
a project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry
project, a fish farming project, a building material project, and a tourism
project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
The Setting
28.      Agriculture is the largest sector of the Egyptian economy, currently
accounting for about 22% of GDP and 40% of total employment. Despite the
country's large land area, only 3% (6.5 million feddans 1/) of the land is
cultivable; most of the remaining land is desert. In contrast to the strong
performance in the previous two decades, agriculture growth in the 1970's
averaged only about 2% per annum. Stimulated by the growth in population
(2.6% annually in recent years) and national incomes, demand for agriculture
products has grown rapidly; and with the decline in domestic production,
imports of agriculture goods have surged. In 1970 the overall trade balance
for the agriculture sector registered a surplus of $300 million; in 1977 it
showed a deficit of $800 million; and in 1980/81, the deficit climbed to $2.7
billion.
29.      Cropping patterns in Egypt are determined by a mix of factors,
including commodity prices, Government quota requirements, producer
preferences, soil and climate limitations, and the degree of farmer
commercialization. Wheat and berseem (an Egyptian clover) are the principal
winter crops; in summer, cotton and rice are the important cash crops, while
maize and sorghum are the major subsistence crops. The main instrument of
Government policy has been price intervention in the major crops, both
1/ A feddan equals 0.42 ha.



directly, through the setting of procurement prices, and indirectly, through
wholesale price controls. The Government has also relied on large-scale food
commodity imports to contain demand pressures. These policies have adversely
affected agriculture production. They have distorted cropping patterns,
leading to the increased production of fodder for livestock at the expense of
more economically efficient food crops. In addition, the very modest
Government investment in the sector and the sharply depressed farm incomes
have permitted little molernization and expansion.
30.       Although the agricultural land is highly productive and intensely
cropped, producing yields considerably above world averages, the boundaries of
the developed land place severe limits on the growth of agricultural output.
The population density to arable land is one of the highest in the world, and
the average size of holdings is extremely small. The additional water
resulting from the completion of the Aswan High Dam permitted the reclamation
from the desert of additional land, but only a third of these lands are
currently productive. At the same time, rapid urbanization has cut deeply
into old agricultural land, more than offsetting new areas of production.
31.       One of the Government's priority objectives is to increase
agriculture output to help reduce the cost of food imports. If the trade
losses in agriculture continue unchecked, they could impose a serious burden
on the balance of payments. With the assistance of bilateral and multilateral
development agencies, the Government is gradually revising its policies and
formulating programs aimed at increasing agricultural productivity and
production.
Primary Problems and Opportunities
32.       Institutional Complexities.  One of the most complex and difficult
problems in developing Egypt's agriculture is the overlapping function of the
entities involved in the sector. Three primary ministries are responsible for
agriculture (Agriculture, Irrigation, and Land Reclamation) and they have a
plethora of authorities, organizations, and companies. There is little
coordination among them and their program and investment priority selection is
weak. While a substantive institutional reform would pave the way to improve
sector performance, for the time being the Government considers such a move to
be politically very sensitive. Instead, it has opted for selected changes and
improved efficiency in the various entities.  It is in this context that the
Bank and outside donors are working with the Government to seek ways to
improve and strengthen institutional management and supervision.
33.       Price Controls.  As indicated above, the Government-controlled
system of procurement andl pricing has been a disincentive to farm production.
The Government recognizes this problem and has recently raised prices for the
basic crops. While substantial, these price increases do not equal the growth
of prices and incomes in the uncontrolled agriculture sector and in other
parts of the economy. The Government's stated objective, however, is to make
further progress in bringing farm-gate prices to acceptable levels in order to
foster increased agricultural production.



- 10 -
34.       Drainage and Water Management.  The increased availability of water
after the completion of the High Dam led to extensive over--irrigation, which
resulted in high water tables and increased salinity. The resulting
deterioration in soil conditions prohibited or reduced crop production
throughout Egypt, and by the mid-1970's it was estimated that about 35% of the
cultivable land was suffering from salinity problems and over 90% was
adversely affected by the water table. For over a decade the Bank has been
working closely with the Government on a national program to provide
sub-surface drainage. The Government is now, with the help of outside
assistance, conducting more sophisticated monitoring programs and gathering
additional data in order to improve further the effectiveness of the program.
35.       Related to the large-scale excessive use of water are problems of
operating and adequately maintaining the country's extensive irrigation
systems. Existing irrigation structures and equipment need to be
rehabilitated and replaced. There is also evidence that the lack of water
control in the on-farm distribution system is already constraining
agricultural yields; and there are major opportunities for increasing
production and reducing costs by modernizing water delivery systems and
improving water management at the farm level.
36.       Operational Research and Extension.  Until relatively recently Egypt
has not had much contact with international crop research. Consequently, even
though the conditions are suitable for high-yielding variety technology, there
has been little experience in the country with improved varieties. There is
now considerable discussion about strengthening the country's research service
and integrating research with a much more effective extension service. There
appear to be technology packages for key crops (such as the major cereals)
which have tremendous growth potential if they could be widely disseminated
and reinforced by price adjustments.
37.       Industrial Linkages.  Throughout the various studies of Egyptian
agriculture there is evidence of a high growth potential in developing
additional linkages between agriculture and industry. In the last few years
there has been a surge of investment in processing facilities, marketing and
storage. These investments have contributed to additional marketing outlets
for farm products, promoted specialization, increased the value added to the
rural sector, and generated employment. In addition, there has been an
increase in small-scale activity which has provided income opportunities
outside the major cities and on the farms. To foster the beneficial effects
of agroindustries on farm production, income and employment, the Government is
giving priority to the expansion of the country's agroindustrial base. The
proposed project would support this objective.
bank Group Role
38.       Until the mid-1970's Bank Group lending to Egyptian agriculture was
concentrated on the drainage of old lands to reduce the widespread problems of
waterlogging and salinity. The OED audit of the first drainage project (Cr.
181-EGT) supported the program, citing promising results based on existing



- 11 -
studies. The Government's Drainage Research Institute is undertaking
additional work, and the information gathered on the effectiveness of the
drainage program will be useful in the design of future projects.
39.       In the past few years, Bank lending has increasingly supported
agriculture development in the old lands. The Agriculture Development Project
(Cr. 830-ECT) is helping improve agriculture technology through the purchase
of agricultural machinery and through extension training in two governorates.
The Fruit and Vegetables Project (Ln. 1276-T-EGT) was designed primarily to
develop improved vegetable seeds, as well as provide credit to fruit and
vegetable processors and exporters in order to help support the rapid
production increases of these crops. The project's credit component has been
fully committed, and after a very uncertain period, progress is finally being
made to improve the operations of the seed farm and to repair damaged sections
of the Nasr Canal which carries water into West Nubariya. Also in support of
the dynamic growth points in the sector, the First Agroindustries Project
(Cr. 988-EGT) has financed a large number of small- and medium-sized
agroindustries.   Reflecting a strong nationwide demand for funds, the
project's credit component has been committed relatively quickly.
40.       The New Lands Development Project (Cr. 1083-EGT) initiated Bank
lending in land reclamation. The project is helping to introduce substantial
improvements in the pattern and approach to the development of new lands.
41.       In another subsector, the Fish Farming Development Project
(Cr. 1111-EGT) is assisting the development of inland water fisheries, which
account for more than 75% of the country's fish production. If adequate
institutions can be built, fish production could become an important source of
animal protein, and it has the advantage, like poultry, of not using scarce
agricultural land.
42.       A central institutional weakness in the sector has been inadequate
planning and project preparation. The Bank's recent Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1162-EGT) is helping to develop units within the agriculture
ministries to undertake planning, feasibility, and engineering studies related
to agriculture projects. The Bank is also the executing agency for a
UNDP-financed project which has been developing information and proposals for
the national use and development of the Nile waters.
43.       In the broader context of the Bank's economic policy work and
discussion, the Bank's Domestic Resource Mobilization Study (Report No.
3123-EGT of December 10, 1980) highlights the importance of agriculture
pricing. This analytical work is now being further developed and expanded in
the trade strategy and investment planning study (para. 24). This work should
be helpful to the Government in reviewing its agricultural strategy, including
pricing policies.
44.       The Bank proposes to continue to build on its recent initiatives,
taking advantage of targets of opportunity to help address to the extent
possible the principal problems identified above. Future projects will



- 12 -
continue to emphasize institutional development, within the context of the
project, and additional efforts will be made to explore opportunities for
regional projects to ease the administrative burden at the center and to tap
resources at the governorate level. The proposed second agroindustries
project, for example, would provide assistance to introduce more sectoral
planning into credit support for agroindustries and would finance small-sized
investment to help encourage development outside the country's major cities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project was identified by Bank staff in cooperation with the
Egyptian authorities as a repeater project to the credit component of the
First Agroindustries Project (Cr. 988-EGT). It was prepared in November 1981
by FAO/CP and appraised in March 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
from November 1 to November 5, 1982, with the Egyptian delegation led by
Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior Undersecretary in the Ministry of Investment and
International Cooperation. A staff appraisal report entitled "Second
Agroindustries Project" (No. 4047-EGT) dated November 11, 1982, is being
distributed separately.
Project Objectives
46.       The major objectives of the proposed project are: (i) to provide
marketing outlets to farm producers; (ii) to add value to the agricultural
sector in Egypt by financing the means to store, transform and distribute
agricultural products; (iii) to provide much-needed credit to agroindustries,
especially small and medium agroindustries, so that they can carry out
necessary investments; and (iv) to strengthen the capacity of the
participating banks to identify, appraise and supervise medium- and long-term
agroindustrial investments.
Project Description
47.       The project would finance a three-year time slice of the ongoing
lending program of the participating banks for investments throughout Egypt to
establish, expand and modernize facilities for primary processing, marketing
and distribution of basic foodstuffs and other agricultural commodities; and
for associated service and input activities. Applications for financing, of
which an estimated 20% would be for expansion and modernization, are expected
to cover a wide variety of agroindustrial enterprises. Investments which
complement and support other activities and help to avoid bottlenecks to
distribution would be particularly encouraged. In addition, the project would
provide technical assistance in three areas: consulting services for sector
analysis, project identification, and monitoring and evaluation systems;
training courses and fellowships; and development of computerization of the
monitoring and evaluation of data.
Participating Banks
48.       Four banks would participate in the proposed project: Development
Industrial Bank (DIB), Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC) and Bank Misr, which were involved in the First Agroindustries



- 13 -
Project; and the recently established National Bank for Development (NBD).
DIB, PBDAC and Bank Misr are owned by the state, whereas NBD is a private
bank. PBDAC is controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture, and the other banks
come under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank of Egypt.
49.       DIB, which is one of the two participating banks (PBs) devoted
entirely to development banking (the other is NBD), has its head office in
Cairo and branches in Alexandria and Tanta. In its association with the World
Bank, DIB has successfully implemented four industrial development projects
and its share of the First Agroindustries Project; a fifth industrial
development loan to DIB recently became effective (Ln. 2074-EGT). DIB
quadrupled its lending operations between 1978 and 1981; at the same time, the
proportion of its medium- and long-term foreign currency operations increased,
so that now DIB has achieved one of its objectives of becoming primarily a
provider of medium- and long-term foreign currency investment funds to
industry in Egypt. Between 1978-81, before-tax return on average equity
ranged between 11 and 23% per annum, and its assets over the same period grew
at an average annual rate of 45%. With a satisfactory liquidity situation and
a long-term debt/equity ratio of 6.1 to 1 as of June 30, 1981, DIB has a
strong financial position and is well placed to continue expanding its
operations.
50.       PBDAC, with its 17 affiliated Banks for Development and Agricultural
Credit and about 5,000 branches, is the largest source of institutional credit
for agriculture in Egypt. At the national level, PBDAC undertakes the central
planning of agricultural credit, including follow up and supervision. It not
only operates as a bank but is responsible for making available production
inputs and formulating the policy for their distribution. In addition to
being a participant in the First Agroindustries Project, PBDAC is a
beneficiary of the Bank's Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 830-EGT) under
which it is financing investments in farm mechanization and irrigation. As a
result of this project, PBDAC's capital base was strengthened and a trend of
continuous losses, which by 1976 had accumulated to LE 54 million, was
reversed. Profitability has since increased steadily, reaching an annual
level of about LE 70 million (less taxes) in 1981. PBDAC's banking operations
have continued to expand, and total assets during the period 1977-1981
increased at an average rate of 25% each year. The level of equity grew from
LE 2 million in 1977 to nearly LE 99 million in 1981, and the debt/equity
ratio improved over the same period from 18.5:1 to 6.6:1. Liquidity, however,
has been continuously tight.
51.       The portfolio of Bank Misr, Egypt's largest commercial bank,
consists mainly of short-term loans for commercial and trading activities.
However, with the establishment of a separate "Investment Center" under the
Bank-financed Fruit and Vegetables Development Project (Ln. 1276-T-EGT), Bank
Misr has increased its medium- and long-term financing activities in the
agricultural and agroindustries sectors, and these activities were further
expanded under the First Agroindustries Project. Technical assistance
provided under the Fruit and Vegetables project has helped improve Bank Misr's
project appraisal and subborrower assistance capabilities.  Its total assets



- 14 -
increased 100% from end-FY78 to mid-FY81, from LE 1,482 million to LE 2,811
million. Financial results have been satisfactory, with before-tax profits
doubling to LE 90.7 million between 1978 and 1981.
52.       The fourth bank, NBD, has been operating for about 18 months.  Now
working out of one office in Cairo, NBD has plans to open seven branches in
the city and 17 subsidiary banks in the governorates. As a private sector
bank able to pay competitive salaries it has attracted well-qualified staff
whose experience is particularly relevant in the commercial and investment
financing sectors, although lacking in agroindustries. In its first year of
operation, NBD made two medium- and long-term loans to agroindustries and
plans to expand its operations in this area. In line with this, it proposes
to give preference in its future recruitment to candidates with experience in
agroindustries and providing technical assistance. Its first year profit of
LE 6.8 million represents 22% of share capital and 9% of deposits. With a
good pipeline of subprojects already under preparation and at appraisal stage,
NBD should achieve its lending target for 1982 of LE 100-150 million.
Technical Assistance and Training
53.       The technical assistance to be provided under this project may be
summarized as follows:
(i) Consultancy Assistance. The three PBs which participated in
the First Agroindustries Project would receive consultancy
assistance through funds still available under that credit to
improve their portfolio planning and development, to modernize
their monitoring and evaluation methods and to organize
certain aspects of their training needs. NDB, which was not a
participant in the previous project, would receive an
allocation of US$170,000 under the proposed project for
consultancy assistance in the same areas. The terms of
reference for consultants, the needs of the individual banks,
and a timetable for hiring the consultants were worked out and
agreed to at negotiations.
(ii) Monitoring and Evaluation. Funds would be provided for the
purchase of the necessary equipment and/or services
(satisfactory to the Bank) to mechanize the banks' monitoring
and evaluation activities (Project Agreement, Section 2.11).
The banks can either incorporate the expanded monitoring
system in their overall computerization program or buy
separate micro-computers for this task.
(iii) Training. Funds would be provided to continue the successful
program sponsored by the Institute of National Planning and
the Bank's Economic Development Institute, which was financed
under the previous project. Basic lending seminars would be
organized, augmented by refresher courses and follow-up
workshops, as well as basic business management courses for
new small scale entrepreneurs, and one fellowship in each PB
for training abroad.



- 15 -
Project Costs and Financing
54.        The project cost is estimated at US$133 million, of which US$80
million (about 60%) represents the foreign exchange cost. Price
contingencies for other than agroindustries subproject components are
calculated in accordance with the Bank's projections of future price
inflation in Egypt and supplying countries. Physical contingencies have been
added at 5% of base costs of the monitoring and technical assistance
components. Total contingencies amount to about 24% of the monitoring and
technical assistance project costs. Consultancy services under the project
(15 man-months to NDB) are estimated at US$10,000 per man month, including
travel and subsistence.
55.        The proposed Bank loan of US$81.2 million (including the front end
fee of US$1.2 million) would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project.
Project Execution
56.        The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be the
Borrower. US$79.5 million of the loan amount would be for onlending to
subborrowers for investments in subprojects in agroindustries; these subloans
are expected to be committed over three years starting June 1983, with
US$500,000 of technical assistance and training expenditures committed over
the same period. The Bank would enter into a project agreement with the four
PBs. The Ministry of International Investment and Cooperation would provide
coordination among the PBs and, with the Bank, would monitor the use of
allocations under the loan. The Government, as Borrower, would enter into a
subsidiary loan agreement with the PBs setting out the onlending terms and
conditions. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Onlending Terms and Conditions
57.        The US$79.5 million loan amount allocated for agroindustries credit
would be available for financing by the participating banks (PBs) of the
foreign component of subprojects in the eligible agroindustrial activities on
a first-come, first-served basis, as an open line of credit. A start-up fund
of US$8 million would be assigned to each PB, against which it could make
commitments. As this initial amount is committed, the PB would be provided
with a further allocation, until the full amount of the agroindustries credit
has been used. If any PB does not commit funds available to it within a
reasonable time, the uncommitted balance would be transferred to one or more
of the other PBs. To promote a more balanced investment in agroindustries in
Egypt, thereby reducing the risk of bottlenecks in the industry and
over-exposure by the individual banks, each bank has agreed to use no more
than 25% of its allocation for onlending in any single group of eleven
eligible agroindustrial activities (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)(iii)).
58.        Not less than 25% of each allocation would be reserved for
financing investments of small subborrowers (Project Agreement, Section
2.02(a)(i)). In addition, since Bank Misr did not onlend any funds to small



- 16 -
businesses under the previous project, preferring to use its own local
currency resources for this purpose, it has been agreed that Bank Misr would
lend the first 25% of its first allocation to small businesses before
financing larger subprojects. For the purposes of this project, a "small
subborrower" is defined as a subborrower with fixed assets, excluding land
and buildings, valued at not more than LE 500,000 in 1982 prices, and
provided with a subloan not exceeding LE 400,000 equivalent (Project
Agreement, Section 1.01(d)). The PBs have agreed to make every effort to
ensure that subloans would be made to as many subborrowers as feasible; no
individual loan would be in an amount of more than US$2 million equivalent
(Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)(iv)). Also, in line with the project
objective of encouraging private sector investments, not more than 25% of the
loan proceeds would be used for financing public sector subprojects (Project
Agreement, Section 2.02(a)(ii)).
59.       The PBs would continue the practice established under the First
Agroindustries Project of separate minimum subborrower contributions to
financing the cost of subprojects; for small subborrowers this would normally
be 15-20%. Subloans would be for terms up to 15 years including up to 4
years' grace, with amortization schedules appropriate to the individual
project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(i)). The security or collateral
required by the PBs of the subborrowers would be governed by their present,
generally conservative, practices.
60.       The PBs would carry out adequate appraisals of each subproject
based on guidelines discussed and agreed to at negotiations between the Bank
and the PBs. These criteria include financial provisions for minimum rates
of return (12% for the ERR), arrangements for working capital, cash flow
projections, and assets. They also include information on supply and
marketing, and technical criteria. The PBs would apply these criteria in
approving each subproject under the project. All subprojects costing over LE
500,000 in total investment, or loan amount over LE 400,000, would be
appraised by the head office units of the PBs; appraisals of smaller
subprojects would be made by branches and supervised by special head office
units.
61.       The first subloans made in each eligible agroinduastrial activity
and every subloan in an amount above the free limit (US$l million) would be
sent for Bank review and approval; applications for subloans below the free
limit would need only be supported by a summary description, upon receipt of
which the Bank would normally authorize prompt withdrawal (Project Agreement,
Section 2.03(a) and (b)). It is expected that about 15-20% of subloans,
accounting for about 50% of the loan amount, would be above the free limit.
62.       The Government would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the
PBs at a rate agreed upon between the Government and the participating banks
and satisfactory to the IBRD. The PBs would onlend Bank funds for financing
the foreign exchange component of subprojects (about 60% on average) at not
less than 15% (Project Agreement, Section 2.04), which is about the same as
the average projected inflation rate for 1982-85 (14-16%). Subborrowers
would assume the foreign exchange risk between the Egyptian pound and the US
dollar (Project Agreement, Section 2.05(c)). The Government would bear the
risk between the US dollar and the currencies owed the Bank (Loan Agreement,



- 17 -
Section 3.0l(b)(iii)). The banks would normally lend additional amounts in
local currency. "Food Security Loans", which have accounted for 80 to 90% of
all agroindustries loans made by the PBs, currently qualify for loans of
local funds at the subsidized 7% nominal interest rate.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       Procurement would follow the same procedures as those in the First
Agroindustries Project. For subloans involving contracts not exceeding
US$150,000 equivalent, procurement would be through normal commercial
channels. Subloans involving contracts of or exceeding US$150,000 would be
procured by limited tendering involving the obtaining of not less than three
bids, which proved efficient under the previous project. Consultants would
be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines.
64.       The proceeds ofi the loan would be disbursed over six fiscal years,
and would finance 100% of foreign expenditures for subloans to beneficiaries
under the project. They would also finance 100% of expenditures for
consultant services, technical assistance and training and for the purchase
of computer equipment and related services under the project. The closing
date of the loan would be December 31, 1987.
Accounts and Audits
65.       The PBs would submit to the Bank audited statements of project
accounts and annual finanLcial statements audited by a firm acceptable to the
Bank within nine months from the end of the financial year.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
66.       Formal monitoring is not yet well developed in the PBs, with the
exception of DIB. The other banks have a basis in their reporting
arrangements for individual agroindustries projects to build a monitoring
system designed to provide management with timely information.  With the help
of consultants available under the ongoing First Agroindustries Project, and
with the technical assistance provided for under this project, suitable
procedures would be established to provide relevant data for management
follow-up and decision making.
67.       Each PB would submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports
analyzing the agroindustrial subprojects and also verifying on a continuing
basis the feasibility of such investments (Project Agreement, Section
2.08(a)).
Benefits and Justification
68.             Major benefits expected from the agroindustries to be financed
under the credit component of the project include:
- reduction in waste as a result of improved storage, processing
and transport;



- 18 -
- provision of increased volume of food staples to serve a
growing population;
- creation of rural employment;
- extension of market regions, with potential increase in
producer incomes;
- improvement in diets from provision of greater variety of
foods available; and
- contribution to balance of payments through encouragement of
export industries and import substitution.
In addition, through technical assistance the project would strengthen the
lending operations of the participating banks and the training capabilities
of the Institute of National Planning.
69.       The project involves modernization and expansion of existing
productive facilities as well as creation of new facilities, with the
expectation of resulting increases in productivity of the existing labor
force and creation of new employment, respectively. Based on analysis of
representative investments expected to be financed, an estimated 5,000 jobs
may be expected to be generated by the project.
70.       Specific subprojects to be financed under the credit component are
not yet known. Estimated financial rates of return for agroindustries of the
types likely to be financed under the project are of the order of 25% on
total assets and 30% on owner's equity (before taxes). These calculations
are based on models of representative actual investments (dairy processing,
block ice, cold store, and egg packing plants). According to analyses of the
four illustrative models, the economic rates of return range from 17 to 25%,
which is higher than the opportunity cost of capital (estimated at 8-10%).
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
71.       The major risk is associated with the quality of performance of the
participating banks; but this risk, as far as it is associated with failure
to commit and disburse funds, is expected to be minimized by working with
four intermediaries with no quota for any one (except an initial
allocation). Sensitivity tests on indicative agroindustry models show that
the rates of return for these enterprises are rather more responsive to
reductions in revenues than to investment or operating cost increases of
similar magnitude. As a majority of the enterprises are expected to be in
the private sector, they will have some ability to vary their prices and
thereby be able to cover inflationary increases in operating costs.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement beteeen the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the participating
banks, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The main condition of loan effectiveness is the execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the participating banks
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.02(b)).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 8, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 20-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /
TOTAL           1001.4                                                      NIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      28.5                                  MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  110.0        190.0     580.0                1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUYfPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      283.0       305.8      538.5                 713.5                   1259.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25929.0      32341.0   39773.0
GRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9          42.3      45.4                  47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION  1N YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       60.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                  ..     103.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.9        32.3       38.8                  35.8                     35.2
PER sQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    985.9       1137.6    1364.7                  420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.2        41.8       39.8                  44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          54.7        54.9       56.7                  52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1         3.2        3.5                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.2        2.1                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               4.1         3.3        2.8                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.5        38.4       36.6                  41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.1       12.1                  12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0         2.7        2.4                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       206.0      187.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          9.0       17.0.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           96.0        99.0       92.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRFMENTS)                   109.0       108.9      117.6/d              108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           77.9        75.1       8i.17a                71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.5        17.4       19.97a                18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0        25.4       14.2                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1         51.3       56.6                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           128.0           ..     103.4                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      66.0                  59.1                     65.6
URBAN                              39.5           ..      88.0                  83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0                  39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2556.1      1856.7    1046.0/d,e             4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSlNG PERSON      1933.3/e,f  1588.4/e  1096.67c,d             1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             465.9       448.7      459.2/c               641.7                    477.4
URBAN                             509.7/f     352.7      652.07T               538.3                    679.8
RURAL                            2190.57?    2126.1    2297.377              2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      30.8/c                25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       5.2/c
URBAN                               4.8           ..       5.O/c
RURAL                                ..           ..       5. 5/c
AVERAGE NUMRBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..       1.8/c
LRBAN                               1.6           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      45.7/c
URBAN                              37.8           ..      76.97 
RURAL                                ..           ..      18.67E.



na 2ia -A  i
- 21 -                                            Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG7S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDtE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0         72.0      75.0                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  80.0         88.0       88.0                 104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                52.0         56.0       61.0                  72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         34.0      48.0                   39.7                     41.3
MALE                  23.0         46.0       59.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                 9.0         22.0      36.0                   29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  22.0           19.0      19.5                   10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         38.0      33.8                   34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                           16.0         25.0      25.2                   23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         26.0           . .     44.0/d                 43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.7          4.0       7.6/d                 17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.9        136.1     138.9                  131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9         16.4      33.4                   44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         23.0      63.7                   31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.6/f          2.2        1.8/j                 1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7481.4       9041.9   11063.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3          7.2       7.9                   10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               58.0         54.0      50.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.0         19.0      30.0                   27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9         28.0       27.8                  26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  53.2         51.5       50.7                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 4.2          4.1       4.4                    5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.6        1.6                   1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/h         17.4/h i  22.0/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/h        42.8/      49.27 NJ
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/h          7.07 5W   s                                                 *i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5th         18.77  14 8 SU.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     131.0                  279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      94.0                  178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     180.0                  403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     118.0                  285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPLLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      21.0                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..      25.0                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e Registered, not all practing in the country; /f 1962; Lg 1975; /h Rural expenditures;
/i 1965; /4 National, 1974-75.
May, 1982



-. 22 -.                                                                         ANNEX r
DFN-OPSO  SOCItL IDrCAtORS                                                          Page    3   of    6
nainLby  c erbabet aos  of th  leok ofIsadrizddftltn                         n  concets eed by dif eret-cetisInc  lcic codt                               . dataor
thI..   afa1 to describe order, ofsgotd iicetrn .. cd chtctrcecca.   eate  etiffreocee  b                                           __
of thI04ccotc   ecp  for                   'it    .os        i  RoPontrt  o p000    idleIcie                ,oc   Afric  a_a  Middle  on Icoo    eaao      rte
Totl -Totlsrl            ra  opciog  too daa   an.   d  .nlad eaters.; 1970 dota.                   ora,aoeotacdocycc:csec                                 eb r t co-picai coot
toe crop..p..t.t.... naia   sd AIcha  gocd.-o  no Lit  atlee; 1979 core                            hotbCiconiocL ceirr.  toyioi   aetctIltecoeraotl   _taied
by ot hot ne pyiio              toclonnapotitrieply uCt
IOT,  and i98l data.                                                                                  ndicaloeiov  -. cte, ocnl.    oe)ocd    te.t-pten-rom
fEftEOY CDONSUOQTITO  PER CAPITA -  .-Ieea  cn-aepcce   ot co-ecia  -n-ty boa                            .clptcc    ee   eptl   o .ace.alto5 pricccpolcoccne-I tataa
and lignote. ptoen   --lra  fee and                             I'o-oc.aad -1oonr -tee-nc             _cnteonIcelaloe.""I                .c    -cpc,ododicala-d aorn-Y
c-icicr  in iiiefe..a of coal aqiaer   e  cpt;_               )5  1971. a-d lilt                      -rcc     pcaic    epc,   e   oldooip  nn  ttl
coca.                                                                      aOoiontonopeedoocita.to.i-Cocclocoonn.ct  coodnoiontcooc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adi-on. H_ L 3!~_ 7 1i ~ d
Ic.noyto.aided cc the nab- ci ore..
PCPUL7ll0Ny5 AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Porelattoo, Old-PorY      tooadl-   ha o d.)    Jely 1:  960.  1970. and 1900              HOOSIOC
dat.                                                                                             Aneg   ioa  deaoe'enocpcrarod ...    cocci  aca.c                             _.t
Porlacen  refttits                                                                            certaofta  ofneroneperroo  -  ota.doha.  an   Irs I -ceegne
Pnojeirton paroatero  for inetallty  ratee co.peloe attire.  lend.~~~~~~~~. 1aetam-   oneepe poecnd. P   .I                                           t
lo.  le   eetee    thitrh ioratn               thtO  oe yrp   pe  capita Incoee                   ...ea d 00 t .ete.  ic    entR     -oiins             .1noa, urba. and rural
Isol.at  feal  life  -epo-tno  sahillon-tV'           1paa    h   aa-Cnotna  dan llinge ei   eoe   L, Inty                                  Iicing qaar-r
ea 7etntn  icy none alco hone three  lanai. -aaa-g                                            -.Ie no  ntl. -nb-   - ad rare1 d-allica   eoette
fertilitcY accor ding  00 Icoo   -eelan  poet foedly nlaaicnprotce
cod  'etilitytrrod    fI prtc. o  proa.a f.acidcOcro ilan  Oateoi-1 G-                                                                                 -1    1     df
Ices lonr  Icopolaeio 1-tnetec lonar  pooltoIhoec   odIohaIc                                       nian ho 'dnocet---aol .nd frolo -              Coe  coc'                "'Pl ad Ien
nineonetet .  OIo i  o-hlend ooly pate   fettaliy  rtsdec- anoplat    aoo-g  popeat lnt:   occlty incoe   cidre                                                     d h-1l "
cPa erlcectlnl  fhit-e enatcteort.-hnechgcrcinVOe  u   duea    o  ~ditf-eIin-                                                                 b  at yr ar  o          .P.oa ...to
-t  -ee   coploose itsef eoet.fo   eoiorioeecoaoeoeuonnet   .iort   d,accorloo   n  tnh-a  11gprcc
Y-c  oa 000.7 oceicio  I. re-i bd - ma  yea  eha  e-tat oney pcpclaeioo                              Pro   Ie .eea.   uo,o'atlon   an Ir_ IerorL.tt iooy_n tneforepIIe
ato- oill berac-e.                                                                                   oly of 12 cc 17 y-netof ege :  --cepoodence core    r  getero.lty
.Pocolaion Ae-elt                                                                                        _ ooI.dr
Per aut.       Ai fd-pece pepnl-ioo Per sqoace kilooetII 1100 netreo                              oaltlorfnn    eott0vcucnt - -Ocaeaa   IalttIt
tonal a0;1)60. tP  and 1979 dab..                                                                inlo   t  oct    oecil, or  che  Prog,s-, onich oporat                   .d.-
Par- .  m  aeicelcoco  Lan  - Com-td a                   Iho  trgoolc         - od                 otty ortn   eenctaO   eolc leie  oe
onip  196. 190 an  197  dat.                                                          PoopIl-ne...her neoo    pieo , ad coo coear  - Tetl  oaee   erie   in
Uoaace   e  SrItor  Ioret       ilro1-iyee.erieee(t                                           pointy a-d  -eodary  leni    bde    onaveeo  nleeIn th
l    er).edrtire  tb 5csere an  eeerft. co pe4cen..g.  of od-erpc-0otepclo   ea
loIon    90   17.  d 190 da.I.                                                                   noi   ieeyrc     ercoI-Ctotace    aeblecocead and -nit.t
"Ioaco    roeh  aspercent ) - total - -.n-I gronoh Iao. ait coei  ed-                                separeentge  of total adult p            atooagd 15 y-ar  and o-c.
penn nopelatin Pe 1I950-0td 1960-70. and 19 70 -0.
FPclatio- Oeooth Rcta  prcn           eb,,-  Aeooe  groeb cae   f amenpope                       CONSIPPTISO9
atlos ta  195-60.1I5-iD, and .....-90.                                                    Peseos  CreI or tcouaec    p -t-)tet    Passenger cao  -oWcte   eaten
Crude Binot  Iaepenbead   - onuA.l-  Ine bilech  Per cho-ncd ot mid-ma                                 aeteog   aac.nogi   aeo     ocea   eclcet                            re   n
porcatio; 190. 170, and i980 data.                                                           ollileryioehicleP:a.
Ceoe Dathtat  ler coueaal    coea   det. t   th.....dof etd-year                             baiOrees   eth noeclnoc -AloPpe   dneier    o   n
G t.. it  oats-i.; cuolp  iepo.nrgee0o   nIo.1T    n IOOD                                             000  cocd  ir-ee a   i-I. 1 ieo "IIr.oI.i.f  .i
ad -it-nontoPldentce-  ane   epie   t ntbd fnllltun   cge.gcrl   elI   e   hoed ifptl.c on; con Ieee  o                                                            -bon leC  reciot-
o-inn ofcidhotgaeI-dc petl.    d.er                     Addo bio-oaol    .deoloeto                T Seesn --rllrla Ia .oe ...         at  conorToo   -           . Iho ..th   aner.geIdo-
P000 0001 nIftOtIDOft                                                                   to oe 'daily 'If  it  pper  at least                    Sh..Icue.. 
Inoanf Voa  Prodctionret Celno1199P-0-            ldno   e  cpoaaoal                     CnsednoleonaceerCpt   _cor  fear Tde   oe'lel                          ne" a
pcoccio   of ahldblfod, e liae            Proeio  enIue  sed-nd   faaco 0dcet  eI  dor.l.ingtepa.Icla  n   de.oetodiei   on
natoe  aceg  podcr  rneeeghe   161h.  h0.an   96  dt.                                   otlLaorPrt  Itnecoe   -tcoaitlyac9e6er9o.in  ooo
Per- cee Itotoi  ofdclornr  freroept.  of oen 0tn -ean de)  -fCopete IPit                           ar..aIforces. cn-d.a.aloa  btI        o IceottoePec M    . I  "Iane  etcI
energy equineleocof nec food earn ies  neiabl   -ndcrr   e  ca pita:~d                  lcnein  poplecIoIt oth yclIeg.   10lnditiooe  in.. netou  coa-ot'ie  are!
psr day.   Osetiable sopphlee comprise doeeic  prodertia..  jepotne leea      not ecaoecablt; 1960. 1970 eod 19A0 dona.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  I  
bosoebal  -Ieei  pld6-RI  pli- aod        t 1977                  d       dl data.                   1960  170-n-      99   oe
ouigyet   oralcacte   aa listed  Op_ CODAIbl  prnid  fory Piome -ereeotaI'lfl                                            .  eri  an    eerpoIca Ron of oil a -eetrpotne
Pllogoer  of 6l1 gran  of totel protei   perdo  and 20ga.oIoia   n                                  90  197-  ood 1960,data.  Thod  arc Snednt .Aepei.l tnaa
yalt  potein ..dI. of   inm  ID gre- ehoal  ha          ' rebelprotin.    hoecto-e nteigag-ea  aFnec1r  of t   pc oiatio-    an-                                ogtIn  tn.l
Pe  aia  7to  so plofrg -oia- -nd7lee-no                  dy upip oh-oede
rcedtno  elol  ad  utea   n  toe  enda;   9645   170sd  97  dte    ICIP ISgICInO_s
crioc daa dance   frog Its cable;  1y00..970dand..Sd dat,                 ofI= fehc_ds
fto c 61 0    S- f-                                                                          90  90.l7eo91te  naoln -dce1980 eeenth-onn, coeblnc.ed c in
ofag  pr  hooa dliehnch;   )0.17 h           r. d 199  oaco.  Th       -                     asa   ep     -eo    Onto-  lene  lo hen                -dn ee   In..o aio atedeAl
ocagdn  date I=   ee   farcant o       f eplon I -. co-a.Iohe.  and vaca,          c                 ootinlpoeu    dint  pc   orrllnnfnd_eIryneI   o
-airooda                     S.at  ro   proreedno-cIed   aprnge by FAnd  ianonrynliloda            Vari eDla cnekd nooc          m  lao.  10-     c- h drI  of anerg   pot ceid
peeceotgee ofcneiccepanoIn   pnolcc7         .toa  cotn  acr7a7.tii                          yoro,o -oo   ofd cI    onry            ro  lollorie    te                  ua
foonalcootanpoecco -tdno     Inrnr.a            P-Cluator plooeaoo'.ernd J.-ocelocntohncrcco   ltcbctnr
cosdreont ogeonhnnreed Ialoac,ecdonfctc61o6e. l9Orotol97 ocean                                   VaCceatr PoSTIoleClo   asnelt   crt   noeLce(ecn      n
coeoalaceseldopvv.theeeaurrnetes ofccocool                                                    vooalPtcnoPoSatclcboadooleoaebatt
00ntlen   ooetalpopr   oatdato  che- d-ey  pIt fh e.c. d too                                        poet'.                                                         --          b
iaeily'o 'dater                   -horede.Ir  h-                                                                                 -rt  0                 .dP.t-'O            :1
Acreo  cr to  tnslt  'i e aroort  1d e      70lccn-ca  , coa         ' Id  oa"
Sen..dero   ayl    oa    con   n            6..   9Iitcodt  nocret d-dophca..l on.
HercL~ .ge  o                                                                                    PrinVEpo inTppoIonloe. Espea  iepGR.OUPIS ue
IIIm eiletoe  andirnol Y           ttO  00 ohttoa.e      f Yoseont   of toifo   -iianorata                           Ic-             y-IyI-
and oan-otrretn-enevtm    onaccfpi9r8i0tdlA
lee loots llscnoce-                                                                 ~..d b                 hz.11
Pueain00 -Stce (- IuIn...t.   Otene  o  no-ab-rh     f  rofteccolo; pYn-                 EIit-oontit .-                 L-         -       and'S   Sot-   IotaTin,i
cloneqeelttedfrogo aeital  ocool atatlocetI  lenell.--    cc1 cact   aolsi  ao   roet aeh                                                                            :.ot Io
Popelaclonye nac  Pato_-fpoaIondclc   S                                dcee   cfLreno o.Ma  1
ealeIfde,,P anadcabeerees. -a1gtatiohoe.....                  ic.  ncpnle
norenogesal -lii-do-i--nRces-.--



- 23 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 43.5 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita: US $487 a/ (1980/81)
Amount (slliso0
us$ at --eanst                                       A N N U A L   C R 0 W T H   R A T E S   (Z)
prices)                      A C T U A L                      PEST.                           P R 0 3 E C T E 0
1979          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Glross Domestic Product b/           17745.0           10.4    10.3    10.9       11.9     8.2       9.0         8.6        7.8        7.2        7.1        6.5         6.1
Agriculture                       3844.0            6.3      1.6    -3.0       5.5      3.9       2.2        2.1         2.3        2.5        2.6        2.7        2.9
Industry                          3237.0           10.6      4.8      9.8    12.3       6.5       9.8        9.1        9.0        9.2         8.8        9.1        8.5
Petroleum                         2728.0           39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3          11.6       13.5        8.6         6.3        7.4        5.5        4.4
Services                          7263.0            9.2    11.6       9.4    12.0    10.2        10.8       11.5       11.0        9.8         8.5        7.4        6.6
Consumption                         15010.0           -2.8      8.3    11.0    11.2        4.5      12.0        11.2        9.2        8.3        7.1        6.7        6.0
Gross Inveutment                      5450.0          54.2    -8.2       9.3    -2.4       9.4       9.6         5.8        6.0        5.8        5.7        5.7        6.1
E:xports of GNFS                     5585.0           27.2    30.8       9.0      3.0      5.8      12.4         7.3        8.2        6.0        6.8        5.8        5.3
Im.ports of GNFS                     8300.0           16.0    -5.3       2.5      4.2      8.9      18.7        7.9        6.8         6.7        5.4        5.1        4.7
Gross National Sasing                 3885.0         133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4   -13.4           -           -          -          -          -          -          -
PRI1ES
GDPiDeflator                                          5(.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0             -
E-cha-ge Rate c/                                       2.15     1.97     1.75     1.54     1.43      1.43       -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                Average Increase (Z) at Constant Prices
(at csrrent prices)                                    1965 Prices  1975 Prices    1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979        1984/85                        1960-1970     1970-1925  1975-1979  FY81-FY86
Gross Domestic Product
- Agriculture                       27.9    25.3    28.3    21.7         15.7                            4.7            5.1         1.9          2.4
Industry & Petroleum              23.7    26.1    25. 4    33.6        35.8                            3.0            2.6        17.5         8.6
- Ser,ices                          42.9    40.8    42.8    40.9         43.7                             6.3           4.4        10.8          8.6
Consumption                         87.3    90.6    90.4    84.6         88.0                            4.4            8.0         6.8          8.5
Grcss Invest-eet                    13.3    13.9    32.3    30.7         28.5                            5.8            4.2         1.8          5.8
Esport of CNFS                      19.5    14.2    21.5    31.5         33.0                            4.9           22.8        11.6         6.8
ImFort ot CNFS                      20.1    18.8    44.1    46.8         49.6                            1.1           13.5         2.5         6.4
Crcss National Sacing               12.9       7.7    10.9    21.9       14.6                            7.2           17.2        22.2          -
As % of GDP
1960    1970    1975      1979
PUE,LIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                   18.5    21.3    34.1    37.2
Current Expenditsre               21.5    22.0    39.9    33.9
Surplus I--) or
Deficit (-)                     -3.0    -0.7    -5.8        3.3
Capital Rupenditure               11.8    11.1    16.6    23.0
loreign FPna.cing                  -        -       06.0      4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY87
OTHER INDICATORS
CNP Growth Rate 1%)                 4.5       5.0      11.5       7.3
(NP per capita grouth
rate (Z)                          1.9       2.7       8.7       5.4
Emergy consumption growth
rate (%) d/                                14.9      13.2      11.0
ICOR                                -         -         3.6       3.3
Marglnac Sauings Rate               -         -         0.46      0.12
]:mpurt Elasticity                  0.9       1.7       0.9       0.8
a/ Using the commercial euchange rate: US$1 = LE 0.84.
b/  GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of grouth concern CDP at factor cout.
c/ Etfectt-e rate computed as a ueighted a-erage of official amd parallel market rates.
d/  Electricity only.                                                                                                                                   Divisims IA
CPD 1, EMENA Region
May 5, 1982 (4203)



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population:  43.5 million (1980/81)
GN? per capita:  US$4872/(1980/81)
Amount (million)                     Annual Growth Rate (%) at Constant 1980,/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                    A C T U A L                       EST.               P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975     1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81      81/82      82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports               4024        27.2      19.6       3.1       7.7       9.6      10.8       9.4       7.2       5.6      6.7
-  Prisary b/                      546       -15.3     -8.5       25.7    -29.8        4.5      5.2      10.2       0.9       1.2       1.4
-  Manufactures b/                 618        24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9    -29.6        9.2      6.2       6.2       6.8       7.4
-  Petroleum                      2860        72.0      63.3      11.1      16.1     22.6      12.1       9.9       8.3       5.9       7.2
Merchandise Imports               7336        14.1      -5.0     -1.1        8.5       5.9     18.0        7.5      6.3       6.5       5.1
-  Food                           1677        27.4      16.9    -18.1       25.8     -7.0      21.2      11.8       3.0       5.5       3.1
-  Petroleum                       243       -34.2    -23.3    -53.3         2.7    -11.8      17.7       6.4       3.3       1.8       0.4
-  Macninery and Equipment       2846         59.5     24.8      21.4      -0.7      25.6      14.3       7.4       7.3       6.7       6.6
-  OMhers                         2570        17.9    -26.2       10.7       7.5      0.2      2D.0       4.4       8.3       7.5       5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                            51.5     49.9      52.3      52.9      76.0    100.0       93.8    100.7    109.1    119.4
Import Price Indec                            60.6     63.5      70.4      76.1      87.9    100.0    105.8    116.9    126.2    135.7
Terms of Trade Index                          85.0      78.6      74.3     69.5      86.5    100.0       88.6      86.1      86.5      88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Y)  Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at ourtent prices)             at constant 1980/81 prices
1970     1975      1979    84/85         1975/79      FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                  9.8           6.8
Primary b/               64.2      28.3      13.6     12.1          -4.1            2.9
Petroleum                 4.8      25.2     71.0       71.0          26.8           7.3
m a.ufacturesb/          31.0      46.7      15.4      16.8         -15.3           6.9
Imports                                                                  1.9           6.1
Food                     13.4      23.6     22.9      24.8            2.9           5.1
Petroleum                 8.2       6.9       3.3      2.4         -24.5            2.8
Machinery                23.4      23.7     38.8      40.2           17.2           6.8
Others                   55.0      45.8     35.0      32.6           -3.1           6.1
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Y)       Developing Countries (Y)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Y)
1965     1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965      1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           27.0      17.0     14.0         18.0     22.0      10.0                1.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                       29.0      19.0      18.0        17.0      22.0      11.0                 -        1.0       3.0
Mlanufactures                 19.0      12.0       3.0        23.0      23.0       9.0                4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                          55.0      42.0      65.0        18.0      25.0      14.0                 -         -        4.0
al  Using the coo-ercial exchange rate;  US01 o LE 0.84.
_/ Not includiog oil and oil products.
EMlDA (0236J)
April 22, 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
EST.                            P R O J E C T E D
1974    1975    1976      1977    1978    1979   1980/N1  1981/82    1982/83           1983/84     1984/85      1985/86   1986/87
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
t.po-t of Goods and Non-Factor
se-voces                                  2251    2503    3319    3888    4099    5585    8205            8588       10012       11496        13367       15298       17442
- of which =erchandise f.o.b.               1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024    6002            6156        7085         8110        9467       10846        12359
impo-ts of Goods and Non-Factor
Ser--ces                                 -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11429  -13089              -15406      -17739      -20079       -22389      -24875
- of whLch nerchandose c.i.f.              -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336  -10039  -11421              -13418      -15418       -17427      -19396      -21520
net Factor Income                              70     122      413      472    1098    1143        850       874        1147         1198        1086         94L          778
Net Private Transfers                         42       90       87       63       54       88       60        66          73           80          88          97          106
Corrent Account Balance                    -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1484   -2314    -3561              -4174       -4965        -5538       -6053       -6549
Private Direct Investment                     87      225      444      477      387      710    1170       1357        1572         1782        2016        2250        2512
MLT Loans and Grants (Net)                    69      270      647      730    1141    1471    1516         1686        1933         2263        2303        2430        2622
- official loans and grants                  -21      210      490      803    1028    1034    1213         1367        1355         1633        1829        2161        2320
- pr.,vate                                    90       60      157      -73      113      437      303       319         578          630         474         269         302
Other Capital (Net) 4/                      1393    1907       191      339    -181    -599    -7D5          664         669          920        1219        1373        1415
Change in Reserves                            47       24       81      -90       14      -98      333      -146           0            0           0           0            0
lnte-national Reerves l/                     516      678      642      880    1106    1098    1300         1340        1241        1154         1079        1018         960
- of which gold                              102      102      102      104      104      104      --        --         --          --           --          --           --
Ree:-ves as Months Imports 3/                1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1      2.2      1.8      1.5       1.3         1.1         0.9          0.8         0.7         0.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gros.  Disbursenents                        2185    3522    2218    3286    2758    2291    2562            3600        4431        5259         5978        6469        6965
Official Grants 5/                       1261      986      705      382      291       72      279       395         519         626          719         775         860
Goncessional Loans                        120    1444       668    1855    1600       996    1276       1235         1312        1472        1524         1628        1646
- DAC                                      55      199      421      591      799     833    1103       1040         1117        1292        1329         1421        1388
- OPEC                                      3    1142       171      137       93       43       69        33          11           1            0           0           0
- IDA                                      12       49       42       42       45       55      48        85          116         103          82           44          22
- Others                                   50       54       34    1085       663       65       56        77          68          76          113         163         236
Non-Goncessional Loans                    804    1092       845    1049       867    1223    1007       1536         1859        2162        2428         2598        2850
- official e-port credits                 379      639      214       24       44       50      83       121          129         145          182         204         230
- IBRD                                     -        14       36       37       57      118     146       197          229         282         347          411         472
- other m-ltilateral                       -         6       -       256       18        5       4         17          37          61          83          102         120
- private                                 425      433      595      732      748    1050      774      1201         1464        1674        1816         1881        2028
Gap Financing                                                                                                434         741         999         1307        1468        1608
Esternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              2830    4830    5770    8090    9920   11330   13505             15290    17506        20216        23179       26377       29720
- official                               1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11296            12327      13224       14306       15488        16948       18468
- private                                 840      940    1050    1290    1420    1860    2210          2529         3106        3736        4210        4479         4781
- gap financing                                                                                          434         1176        2174        3481        4950         6471
Undisb-rsed Debt                            1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5951            6296        6884        7315         7713        8211        8830
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                        517      595      665    1099    1211    1040    2334          2449        2883        3400         4037        4768        5587
- interest                                 70      115      III      340      387     236      684       728          791         914        1036         1156        1275
- payment as % e-ports 21                 212    21.6%   16.8%   23.9%   21.8%   14.6%   15.6%    20.8%              20.72       21.1%       22.2%       22.1%       22.2%
Average Interest Rate on New Loans           6.3      4.7      5.1      5.1      4.6      6.4      6.5       7.3         7.3         7.3          7.2         7.2         7.2
- official
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)    17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5                16.9        16.0         15.8        15.7       15.6        15.6
- official
- private
1/ Foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
3/ Merchandise only.
4/  Including commerc-al banks operations, residual foreign financing and special balance of payments financing.
5/ Including special balance of payments grants.
EMIDA (0234J)
September 14, 1982



- 26 -                                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved       Borrower       Purpose                                       (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                                  Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
16 Loans and Credits fully disbursed 1/                                                246.8    239.3            -
r 423               74            ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation               --     18.5          0.3
n 1064              75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                50.0        --          8.4
n 1085              75            ARE          Tourah Cement                            40.0        --          0.9
Ln 1239             76            APA          Alexandria Port                          45.0        --         23.5
Tn 1276-T 2/        76            ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                 50.0        --         16.6
_r  637             76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                    --      40.0          6.9
_n 1285             76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                   10.0       --         10.0
-n 1292             76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                   52.0        --          6.8
n 1369              77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                  53.2        --         22.9
Sr  719             77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                      --     27.0          1.6
-n 1439             77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                   27.0        --         25.3
n 1440-T 2/        77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                   12.0        --         11.3
an 1456             77            ARE          Industrial Imports                       70.0        --          6.4
_r  774             78            ARE          Telecommunications II                       --     53.0         38.0
-n 1533             78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III          40.0        --          2.8
r  830             78            ARE          Agricultural Development                   --      32.0         22.9
.r  831             78            ARE          Urban Development                          --      14.0         11.7
_r  850             79            ARE          Population II                              --      25.0         12.3
'r  868             79           ARE           Education II                               --     40.0         23.9
-n S-14             79            ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance              11.0       --          3.3
_~r  909            79            ARE          Tourism                                      -     32.5         26.4
_n 1732             79            ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                         75.0        --         12.3
r  935              79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power            --     37.0         25.8
-n 1733             79            EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 31  102.0           --        101.3
r  988              80            ARE          Agroindustries                              --     45.0         24.0
_n 1804             80            DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV           50.0        --         13.7
_n 1842             80            ARE          MIDB                                     30.0        --         29.5
'r 1024             80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                     ---     50.0          7.5
-n 1849             80            ARE          Pulp and Paper                           50.0        --         50.0
_n 1886             80            EEA          Power III                                 7.0        --          7.0
r 1052             80            EEA          Power III                                  ---    120.0        108.3
.r 1069             81           ARE          Education III 4/                            ---    40.1         37.2
-n 1928             81            EGPC         Western Desert Exploration               25.0        --         10.3
Cr 1083             81            ARE          New Land Development 4/                    ---    80.0          75.9
'r 1111             81            ARE          Fish Farming 4/                          --        14.0         13.0
_n 2002             81            HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                   64.0        --         63.5
vr 1156             81            ARE          Beheira Water Supply 4/                    --      56.6         56.6
_r 1162             81            ARE          Technical Assistance 4/                    --       6.9          6.9
-n 2041             82            ARE          Telecommunications III 5/                64.0        --         64.0
-n 2074             82            DIB          Development Industrial Bank V           120.0        --        117.5
_n 2103             82            EGPC         Abu Qir Gas Development 5/               90.0        --         90.0
_n 2176             82            ARE          Greater Cairo Urban Development 5/    59.0           --         59.0
Totals 6/                                                                             1443.0    970.9        1255.5
Of which has been repaid                                                                89.1       1.4
t'otal now outstanding                                                                1353.9    969.5
ixmount sold                                           7.5
Of which has been repaid                               7.5
"otal now held by Bank and IDA                                                        1353.9    969.5
/ Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced.
_/ Third Window Loan.
./ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million.
4/ Credit denominated in SDRs. Amount shown is $ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and $
equivalent at September 30, 1982 for the undisbursed amount.
3/ Not yet effective.
Excludes a $132 million loan for an El Dikheila Port Project which has been approved by the Board, but not yet
signed.
.z3lJ)



ANNEX II
- 27 -                            Page 2 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                    Type of Business                   Loan      Equity    Total
-----…(US  Million)------
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry                    6.63      1.15       7.78
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.43      0.16       0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company        Agricultural Production,           20.00      3.00      23.00
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing             12.10      2.38      14.48
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish              Food and Food Processing            1.93      0.55       2.48
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company        Building Materials                 30.00        -       30.00
81    Luxor Hotel                Crocodile Tourist Project           4.41      0.72       5.13
Total. gross commitments                                              75.50      7.96      83.46
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                11.83       -        11.83
Total. commitments now held by IFC                                    63.67      7.96      71.63
Total. Undisbursed                                                    10.04      3.00      13.04
231J



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is expected to be completed in 1983. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds and slow
implementation of civil works, have been overcome. All new ginneries have
been commissioned and the remaining eight are expected to be commissioned
during 1983. Progress of civil works on these ginneries is satisfactory,
and procurement of equipment under the Credit is also complete.  The Credit
funds are expected to be disbursed by the closing date.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
have lagged behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for all items have been
awarded. The financial situation of the borrower is sound.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Civil works and procurement of machinery and equipment have been
completed. Erection work is nearing completion. Start-up of facilities
has commenced and the project is expected to be completed by the closing
date.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works contract is
proceeding slowly and other civil works are behind schedule, due largely to
changes in the senior management of Alexandria Port Authority and delays in
the provision by Government of funds to pay the contractor. Procurement of
most equipment is progressing satisfactorily although the award of a
contract for radar equipment is badly behind schedule. A resumption of
full funding is expected within the next few months. The Bank's views have
been given on the evaluation report of radar tenders. Project completion
may be delayed by up to 6 months.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
While substantial progress has been made on most components of
this loan, the El Nasr Canal component is three years behind schedule.
After extensive discussion with the Government, a new schedule has been
developed for the repair of the Nasr Canal, and progress is now being
made. On this basis it is proposed to extend the project initially for one
year. All funds are committed for the credit component; and although there
have been significant problems in the development of the seed farm, the
Bank has been discussing with Egyptian officials revised modes of
management which should improve performance.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion in about 80 percent of the project area. Tile drains have been
installed covering 89,000 feddans, about 18 per cent of the project
target. This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction
planning and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public
sector contracting companies, as well as because of delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines. Progress on the Bilharzia Control Program is
on schedule, but it will need continued integrated strategy of snail
control measures and treatment of infected patients, and improved quality
control.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials. Early management problems have now been overcome and both
companies have developed effective project execution units. Disbursements
are slower than anticipated, reflecting initial delays in procurement.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date; March 31,
1984.
Of the nine additional contracts agreed to by the Bank, one has
been completed. Tenders for another seven contracts have been received and
evaluated, and two of these have been awarded. The remaining contract has
been advertised and tenders are due shortly. Of the original work,
pipelaying is essentially completed. Work on construction of treatment
plants is experiencing some delays. At one treatment plant site two test
piles have failed and additional piling is now required. Project
completion is now expected to be February/March 1984. Work is proceeding
to curb the resurgence of unaccounted for water in the city which now
stands at about 50%. A computer for billing and other statistical and
financial activities is being installed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, UST27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains in about 580,000
feddans is on schedule. Tile drains have been installed covering some
81,000 feddans, about 20 percent of the project target. This activity is
behind schedule mainly because of construction planning and management
constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector contracting
companies. The progress is expected to improve with the delivery of
plastic pipe laying machines being imported by the contractors. Moderate
progress has been made with the civil works of four new pumping stations.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it needs continued
integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected
patients, and improved quality control.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1982. 1/
The loan has been fully committed and about 92 percent disbursed.
Based on discussions with Government, the Bank has agreed to reallocate
funds among the various categories to take account of projected
over-commitments in Category I and provide additional funds in Category IV
for financing engineering services for National and Rakta paper companies.
The study of the Construction Industry in Egypt financed under Category IV
is now completed. The Government has not utilized the funds under the loan
to develop any programs to improve preventive maintenance practices in
public enterprises. The loan has been closed as scheduled but
disbursements will continue until end-1982 on an informal basis.
1/ Loan closed June 30, 1982; account is being held open to allow
disbursements against contracts signed before closing date.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is fully committed and $37.2
million has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date; September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Out of the credit of $53 million about $40 million has been
committed and about $10 million is under commitment. Due to earlier delays
in procurement, the project has been delayed by about three years. At this
time an extension of the closing date from December 31, 1982 to December
31, 1983 is proposed. ARENTO revised its telecommunications tariffs in
January/February 1982 and the resulting increased revenues are expected to
be sufficient for ARENTO to achieve the agreed minimum rate of return of
10% on its revalued assets. Progress has also been made in the settlement
of receivables from Government agencies.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and stieps taken which have resulted in improved project
execution. Project organization and management have been strengthened and
the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems.  A study
of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and finance
will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of machinery
workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of farm
implements is progressing.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The Assuit Governorate is making reasonable progress in
implementing its components; and project items in the Cairo Governorate are
progressing, although slowly. The Alexandria components presented
difficult problems until recently; these now appear to be resolved. The
credit closing date is proposed to be extended initially for one year on
the basis of an agreed detailed action program.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction has been completed on over 70% of the facilities.
Institutional arrangements have been completed to carry out the delayed
software activities, particularly the home visiting program, IEC and
training. Project management has improved considerably and MOH has agreed
to recruit additional staff to further strengthen supervision and
monitoring.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of
technical assistance components on schedule. Although disbursements are
somewhat slower than appraisal estimates, no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The experimental mine started operations in January 1981, a delay
of about 10 months. The chemical tests on the phosphate rock have been
completed and reviewed by the Bank.  An optimization study on the
alternative configurations of the project, its scope and ciutput volume as
well as locations of phosphate processing facilities was completed in
September 1981 and has been reviewed by the Bank. The conclusion reached
is that the initial target of 7 million tons per year of phosphate rock
production is not justified by projected market demand and should be
reduced drastically. Agreement on scope of proposed project has not been
reached. However, the closing date has been extended 12 months to June 30,
1983, to facilitate completion of studies under Part C (ii) of the
project. The detailed project report on the mining operation has been
received and is under review.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Design work is under way on most project components. Contracts
have been signed for several studies and tendering procedures have
commenced on the others. Contracting and tendering are well advanced for
the following components: telecommunications, electricity, roads, Luxor
airport terminal buildings, and the hotel training school. Execution of
most components remains behind schedule, but recent steps to strengthen the
project unit have resulted in reductions in further slippages.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project was delayed initially but is now progressing
satisfactorily. Commissioning and start-up of the main plant facilities
should be completed by end-1982. The Ras Bakr component is scheduled to be
completed in June 1983, and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1983.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Bids for most major equipment packages have been received and
orders have been placed. With concerted efforts by project management, it
might be possible to overcome the delay of about six months that has
already taken place in project execution and to complete the project on
time. EEA's rate of return is well below the agreed level. Measures to
improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Construction of the Cairo abattoir is more than half completed and
the contract for construction of the Alexandria abattoir has been
ratified. The credit component through the three participating banks is
virtually committed.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely committed
and US$36.3 million has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date; June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its full operations. Disbursements have been slow; however
MIDB has recently revised its operation forecast for 1982 and, as a result,
expects to commit a substantial portion of the loan by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Engineering work for
the project is in an advanced stage of preparation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, '980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project is making good progress. An ongoing intensive
training program and accumulated on-the-job experience have resulted in a
larger trained work force and significant productivity gains. A concerted
effort is being made to complete all the household connections by the end
of 1983 as originally planned.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged. Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT - Third Power Project; US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT,
US$120 million of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the physical components of the project is
satisfactory. The tariff study has been completed. EEA's rate of return
is well below the agreed level, and measures to improve EEA's financial
situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Four exploration wells in the eastern part of GPC's permit area
have been drilled and gas has been found in what appear to be commercial
quantities. Appraisal drilling aimed at firming up the reserves is
ongoing. Four more exploration wells are expected to be drilled under the
project.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (US$80
million) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Development works on Phase I (7,500 feddans) started in July 1982,
and the work will be accelerated after the arrival of the ordered
construction equipment. The design and tender documents for Phase II
(17,000 feddans) are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be
completed in November 1982. Field trials continue on schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cr. No. llll-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (US$14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 25, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
In mid-1982, the Government selected consultants to provide
construction supervision and fisheries technical assistance. (The same
firms were previously engaged under the PPF). Despite the selection of
consultants, the project authorities are making slow progress with respect
to: (i) formulation and implementation of training plans; (ii) procurement;
and (iii) preparation of production plans for the Maryut Fish Farm. These
matters are being addressed by a supervision mission scheduled visiting
Egypt in November 1982.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, are
proceeding well.
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
million (US$56.6 million)  of November 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
There is a delay of some five months in project implementation due
to difficulties in finalizing engagement of engineering consultants after
the previous contract expired. Services for the next phase of management
consulting work are still under negotiation. Six contracts have been
advertised and tenders for five have been received. Responses have also
been received for prequalification of contractors for two rehabilitation
contracts. The taking over of services by the Beheira Water Company is
largely on schedule and the company is now supplying over 90% of the
treated water in the governorate. Total staff of the company is now 559
and about another 300 will be added in FY83. Successful attempts to
improve system operation have been made by the company staff.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US$6.9
million) of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The Ministry of Irrigation has
finalised a contract for employment of consultants (Harza Engineering).
The Ministry of Land Reclamation has selected consultant and is now
negotiating a contract.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 2041-EGT - Telecommunications III Project; US$64 million Loan of
August 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is under way.
Ln. No. 2074-EGT - Development Industrial Bank V ProjecIt; US$120 million
Loan of January 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Progress is satisfactory: US$25.9 million has been committed and
US$2.5 million has been disbursed as of September 30, 1982.
Ln. No. 2103-EGT - Abu Qir Gas Development Project; US$90 million Loan of
May 3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Action on effectiveness is under way.l/
Ln. No. 2176-EGT - Greater Cairo Urban Development Project; US$59 million
Loan of October 26, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is under way.
1/ Declared effective December 23, 1982.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agencies to prepare                         6 months (November
the project:                                              1981 - March 1982)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:                      FAO/CP and Bank
(c) Date of Government request to the                         August 1981
Bank:
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:                   March 1, 1982
(e) Date of completion of. negotiations:                      November 5, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                            September 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(i) Each bank woulcl use no more than 25% of its allocation in any single
group of eligible agroindustrial activities (para. 57).
(ii) Not less than 25% of the amount of the loan allocated for onlending
by each bank would be provided to finance investments by small
subborrowers; not more than 25% of the loan allocated for onlending
would be used t:o finance public sector projects; and no individual
loan would be more than $2 million (para. 58).
(iii) The participating banks would onlend Bank funds at an interest of
not less than 15% (para 62).






21t                                              3D-                 -t,          -    DAMIE       , 3
MEDITERRANEAN   SEA
ALEXADI                       SAFR El S.E-K                 1M.M            Si
Mann~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                                      PORT ESAIE)-
Donord.~  -          ElI4~fln  F-               NA'0
K.E1 Bo,.d                      -
I>              St'S.I UETer
. Abotl2A
-26',,NGHfaal                                                                                                                                       -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                                     ,+                                ON 
SECOND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT    3o                                                                                               rn- o
Maior roads                                               )\ 
RajiwoITS                                            G SEl Kv,gvlsu  
_    _    Avprosrmase govOrOorarS boundaries          E                                                                     S
-. -       InI.rnas.onal boundaries/ 
o    Mojor CitieS and towns                                                                                            If
-~  Rivers
s-f~ ~~~~~~~~~~~D Abl Z-e Ct
o   20   40   60   80  IDU K,Ivr,et.s
o       20      40      6D M,les
-242
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~OA
-26' ~ ~ ~            ~             ~             ~             ~            ~ ~ ~ <
SEn     O ND                   R AON                    M,. P J hu fhAlA,
Mal., r-ds       b           W5.iiuiaon.rua,i                                                       -
'  En,  W'>'            -App,.....I. g.--m bfl d-.
r,5  vi v                                                    Ww0 h.r uC .iA0 itnum, b- y 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,Aeir. or M:f - hiS_wff.5.1 rOtr  rr
flWULC   p \S AUDI AR A BIA          tAE               Ors.nr- .Of. I   O.-i                                          S
_ r f                                  E,U.    ~        r,.ous/ovorXwaddmA ^WA
'.1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Ob
F  ____r    _~~~~ I3 '                                                                         I                                                             _--
-SUD2       N                                   _, j. C." 2--



