OFIRCIAL LOAN NUMBER 2243 EGT
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Agro-Industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK MISR
and
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
and
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
and
NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT
Dated             r                 , 1983


﻿LOAN RUMBER 2243 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Y2                      , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANK MISR, DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL
BANK, PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT and
NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Partici-
pating Banks).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of !ven date herewith
between the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-one million two hundred thousand dollars ($81,200,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Participating Banks agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter.set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Participating Banks, the proceeds of
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available to the Participating Banks on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Participating Banks, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Ge,neral
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Egyptian Pounds" and the letters "LE" mean pounds in
the currency of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b)  "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
any of the Participating Banks out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to them under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-
limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the equivalent
of $1,000,000;
(c)  "sub-borrower" means a borrower, including a small
sub-borrower to which a Participating Bank proposes to make or
has made a sub-loan;
(d) "small sub-borrower" means a sub-borrower whose fixed
assets (excluding land and buildings) do not exceed the equiva-
lent of LE 500,000 or such other amount as the Bank and the
Participating Banks may agree, and to which a Participating
Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan not exceeding
LE 400,000 equivalent;
(e)  "sub-project" means an agro-industrial project to be
carried out by a sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a
sub-loan; and
(f)  "Eligible Agro-Industries" means the agro-industries
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement and under which a
sub-project may be financed through a sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Participating Banks shall carry out the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial, and investment standards and
shall provide, in regard to their respective activities, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) Each of the Participating Banks shall,
acting on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.09 of the
*Loan Agreement anr to the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account for
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to be
paid) by such Participating Bank on account of a withdrawal made
by a sub-borrower under a sub-loan to meet the reasonable foreign


﻿-3-
currency cost of goods and services required for a sub-project
in an Eligible Agro-Industry and in respect of, which the with-
drawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,
that, except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) each of the
Participating Banks shall allocate not less than 25% of the
amount of the Loan utilized by it for purposes of Part A of the
Project for the financing, through sub-loans, of sub-projects to
be carried out by small sub-borrowers; (ii) entities in the
public sector of the Borrower may be provided with sub-loans not
exceeding, in the aggregate, the equivalent of 25% of the amount
of the Loan allocated for Part A of the Project; (iii) sub-loans
provided by each Participating Bank for the carrying out of
sub-projects in a single Eligible Agro-Industry shall not exceed
the equivalent of"25% of the amount of the Loan utilized by such
Participating Bank for purposes of Part A of the Project; and
(iv) no sub-loan shall be -provided in an arount -exceeding the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Participating Banks shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i)
expenditures before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expendi-
tures by a sub-borrower in respect of a sub-loan if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the
date on which the Bank shall have received in' respect of such
sub-loan the application and information required by Section 2.03
(a) or (b) of this Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 2.03. (a) For approval by the Bank of the first
sub-loan in each of the Eligible Agro-Industries referred to in
the Schedule to this Agreement and thereafter of any sub-loan
(other than a free-limit sub-loan), the Participating Bank
concerned shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description and an
appraisal, to be made in accordance with procedures -atisfactory
to the Bank, of the sub-Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan, and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by a Participating Bank for authorization
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-
limit sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
sub-Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the


﻿-4-
terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Participating Banks shall
otherwise agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1986.
Section 2.04. Unless otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Participating Banks, each Participating Bank shall charge
interest at a rate of not less than 15% per annum on the
principal amount of any sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Participating Banks shall repay the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bor-
rower, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.08 (b) of the Loan
Agreement, to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant
part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to sub-loans which have been approved or authorized
for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.03 of this
Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant
to Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made
by the Participating Banks under Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and the Participating Banks shall otherwise agree, shall
provide for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semiannual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) When repayment of a sub-loan is made in Egyptian
Pounds, the principal amount of such sub-loan shall be the
equivalent in terms of Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the
respective dates of debt service on the sub-loan) of the U.S.
dollar equivalent (determined as of the respective dates of with-
drawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such
sub-loan; the equivalent in terms of Egyptian Pounds shall be
determined on the basis of the highest rate of exchange declared
by the Central Bank of Egypt to be applicable to the Partici-
pating Banks.


﻿-5-
(d) Each Participating Bank shall transmit to the Bank, for
its prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made
by such Participating Bank in respect of the -repayment provisions
of any sub-loan.
Section 2.06. Unless the Bank, the Borrower and the
Participating Banks shall otherwise agree, if a sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be repaid to a Participating Bank, in advance
of maturity or if a'sub-loan or any part thereof shall be sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by-such
Participating Bank, such Participating Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower and shall repay to the Borrower on the next
following interest payment date the amount withdrawn -from the
Loan Account in respect of such -sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Borrower.
Section 2.07. (a) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each Participating Bank shall provide the sub-loans on terms
whereby such Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract
with the sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and
the Participating Bank, including the right of the Participating
Bank to: (i) -require the sub-borrower to carry out and operate
the  sub-Project  with  due  diligence  and   efficiency -and  in
accordance with appropriate technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that:
(1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan be purchased at a reasonable price, account
being taken also of other  relevant factors such as time of
delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods, availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the
case of services, of their quality and the competence of the
parties 'rendering them, (2) such goods, if estimated to cost more
than $150,000 equivalent, be procured, to 'the extent practicable,
after obtaining not less than three written offers, and (3) such
goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying 'out of the
sub-project;   (iii)   inspect,  by   itself , or  jointly   with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall 'so request, such
goods and the sites, wofks,' plants and 'construction included in
the sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the sub-borrower take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
appropriate business practice, and (2) without -any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover 'hazards incident


﻿-6-
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the sub-borrower to replace or repair
such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Participating Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the sub-borrower and to the benefits to be derived
from the sub-project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the sub-borrower t the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon
failure by such sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Participating Bank.
(b) Each Participating Bank shall exercise its rights in
relation to each sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and the Participating
Bank; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) Each Participating Bank shall: (i) furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, the Project, the sub-projects,
the sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its comments, starting in June 1, 1983, semiannual progress
reports summarizing the findings of its monitoring and evaluation
activities.
(b) Within, six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Participating Banks shall prepare and fur-
nish to the Borrower and the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the sub-projects, their costs and
the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance
by the Participating Banks and ,the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. In order to assist the National Bank for
Development (a Participating Bank) in carrying out Part B.2 of
the Project, the said National Bank shall employ consultants
whose   selection,  qualifications,   experience  and  terms   and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such


﻿- 7 -
selection to be made in accordance with the principles and
procedures  described  in   the  "Guidelines   for  the  Use   of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.10. Each Participating Bank shall duly perform all
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Participating Bank shall, take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. The Participating Banks shall procure the
computer equipment, materials and services required under Part
B.3 of the Project under procedures satisfactory tc the Bank,
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. The Participating Banks shall each maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial conditions.
Section 3.02. (a) The Participating Banks shall each estab-
lish and maintain separate accounts for the Project.
(b) Each Participating Bank shall: (i) have its accounts
(including the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section) and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Partici-
pating Bank and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Participating Banks thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the
Participating Banks thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For MB:
Banque Misr
151 Mohadfted Farid Street   '
Cairo, Egypt
Cable Address:                     Telex:
BANSR                             92242 UN
Cairo
For DIB:
Development Industrial Bank
110 Galaa Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable Address                      Telex:
DEVBANK                          2643
Cairo
For PBDAC:
Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit
110 Kasr El-Einy Street
Cairo,Egypt
Cable Address:                     Telex:
TASLIF                             93045 PBDAC UN
Cairo
For NBD:
National Bank for Development
48/50 Abd El-Khalek Sarwat Street
P.O. Box 647
Cairo, Egypt
Cable Address:                     Telex:
National Bank for                94093 NBD UN
Development
Cairo


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be .taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement  on   behalf  of  a  Participating  Bank, or    by  such
Participating Bank on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chairman of such
Participating Bank or such other person or persons as the
Chairman shall designate in writing, and the Participating Bank
concerned shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority 'and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WREREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANK MISR
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
By
Authörized Repredentätive
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
By
..Authorized RepreseAtative
NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Eligible Agro-Industries
Unless the Bank and the Participating Banks may otherwise
agree,  the   following  are  the  agro-industries   eligible  for
financing, .through sub-loans, under Part A of the Project.
1.   GRAIN
Rice                milling; starch production
Wheat               flour milling; bakeries; pasta
mAnufacturing .
Maize               maize flour; starch; oil; corn syrup;
glucose
2.   VEGETABLES
Potatoes            storage; grading; dehydration
Onions              dehydration
Other' (including   grading; packing; canning; greenhouse
pulses)             production
3.   FRUITS
Fruits              juicing; dehydration; canning; packing
Grapes              raisins; pack houses; fermentation
4.   OIL CROPS
Peanuts             processing
Sesame, sunflower   oil milling; paste and "halava"
Soybeans            oil extraction; meal
5.   SUGAR PROCESSING
Sugarcane - sugar- milling and refining; molasses; cane
beet                syrup
6.   MEAT
Beef, lamb, &       slaughterhouses; processing plants;
others              feed mills
Poultry             egg production and packing; chick
rearing; broiler production; feed
mills; slaughter houses; hatcheries
7.   FISH                preservation and shipment; fish meal;
hatcheries


﻿- 13 -
8.   DAIRY               pasteurization; cheese; butter; yogurt;
ice cream
9.   MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSING
.Clover and          drying and pelletizing
alfalfa
Honey               centrifuging and packaging'
Fibers (flax,       decortication; oil (from flax); ropes
sisal, kenaf)       and bags
Essential oils      distillation for medicine; flavorings;
insecticides; perfumes based on
flowers
10. COLD STORAGE & ICE MAKING
cooling tanks and freezing
11. OTHER SERVICES
Seed cleaning &     for domestic use and export of
processing          specialty herbs
Container manufac-
turing
Trucking for
agricultural
products,
including
refrigeration
Wholesaling         for fruits, vegetables and- liestock
markets
Storage for
agricultural
commodities
Ready-made meals


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198,-3
FOR SECRETARY


