Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6524-K0
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEINENT PROJECT
April 9, 1987
Urban and Watet Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1987)
Currency unit - Won (W)
W 1.00        - $O.00116 A1
$1.00         = W 860 /1
W lmillion   = $1,116
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       = 0.62 miles
1 square meter (sq m)  = 10.8 square feet
1 hectare (ha)         = 10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres or
3,024 pyonigs (py)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPB       =    Economic Planning Board
ERR       2    Economic Rate of Return
GA        =    PCG's General Account
ICB       =    International Competitive Bidding
ISWACO    =    Industrial Sites and Water  Resources
Development Corporation
KLDC      =    Korea Land Development Corporation
KRIHS     =    Korea Research Institute for Human
Settlements
LCB       8    Local Competitive Bidding
LTFP           Long-Term Financial Plan
MOC       =    Ministry of Construction
MOF       =    Ministry of Finance
MOHA      =    Ministry of Home Affairs
OSROK     =    Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
p.a.      8    per annum
PCG       =    Pusan City Government
PFMSA     =    Pusan Fund Management Special Account
PSIDP     =    Policy Statement and Institutional
Development Program
SA        =    PCG's Special Accounts
TSM       =    Transportation System Management
/1   In this report "$" refers to US dollars.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:  Pusan City Government (PCG).
Guarantor: Republic of Korea.
Amount:    $50 million equivalent.
Terms:     Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Prolect Description: The project supports a comprehensive program of
institutional and policy development for PCG, including
strengthening of PCG's management, organization and
finances.  Measures would be introduced to consolidate the
planning of all investments, improve the overall
transportation system, establish an annual investment plan,
long-term financial plan and performance monitoring system,
strengthen project evaluation, and complete studies for the
implementation of mechanisms to improve cost recovery and
integrate the city's financia'l management and cash
resources. Loan funds would finance the foreign exchange
cost of a time-slice of a selected portion of PCG's
investment  plan,  including:   (a) construction and
improvements of priority roads; (b) a comprehensive program
of low-cost transportation improvements, under an integrated
Transportation System Management (TSM); (c) drainage, flood
protection and sewerage works; (d) embankment and slope
protection; and (e) improvement and expansion of city
services (markets, landfill, equipment, and community
facilities).
Risks:    There are no serious risks to the project.  The risk of some
delay in central government approval of the institutional
and policy reforms is minimized by PCG's commitment to the
proposed institutional programs and its intention to
implement these measures in less than one year.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petfotnmnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizption.



- ii -
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
Estimated Project Cost                       -------($ Million)-----
Roads and Highways                               92.5    32.4  124.9
Drainage, Sewerage and Flood Control             10.6     4.4   15.0
Embankment and Slc?e Protection                  10.2     3.1   13.3
Community Facilities                             10.6     2.7   13.3
Transportation System Management                  4.8      2.2    7.0
Transit Centers                                   3.2      1.2    4.4
TSM Technical Assistance                          0.8      0.1    0.9
Base Cost - March 1987 Prices                   132.7    46.1  178.8
Physical Contingencies                            6.6     2.3    8.9
Price Contingencies                               4.7     1.6    6.3
Project Cost a]                              144.0    50.0  194.0
Financing Plan
Proposed IBRD Loan                                 -     50.0   50.0
PCG's Internal Cash Generation                  144.0       -  144.0
Total Financing Requirements                 144.0    50.0  194.0
- ----- Bank Fiscal Years -----
Estimated Disbursements      1988     1989     1990    1991
----------$ Million--------
Annual             13        16       18       3
Cumulative         13       29        47      50
Economic Rate of Return:      24%
a]   Including duties and taxes estimated at $2 million equivalent.
Interest during construction is not included, since it is not
capitalized by PCG.



KOREA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
1.   THE  URBAN  SECTOR  .  ......................................  1
Sector Background and Overview .....    .................    1
Sector Organization ...............................    1
Sector Financing.                                     1
The Urban Subsectors: An Overview.                      2
Water Supply ......................................    2
Sewerage and the Environment.                         2
Urban Transport.                                      3
Land Development.                                     3
Housing.                                              3
Regional Develi'pment.                                4
Bank Objectives and Lending in the Sector.              4
Rationale for Bank Involvement.                         5
II. PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMT T.5
Pusan Urban Management Issues .......................    5
Institutional Framework ......................,.,.    6
Transportation System Management.                       7
Investment Planning: Project Selection and Evaluation    7
Long-Term Financial Planning    ..                      7
Improved Financing and Cost Recovery      .     .       8
PCG Taxes and Revenues .............................    8
GA Finances ..........,,.                               9
SA Finances        .. ........,  10
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission
consisting of Messrs. Claudio Fernandez (Sr. Financial Analyst),
Daniel Gunaratnam (Sr. Engineer), Kyu Sik Lee (Sr. Economist) and
Richard Barrett (Transportation Consultant), who visited Korea in
November 1986.



- iv -
III.  THE PROJECT                                                         11
Project Origin and Formulation ........          ................    11
Pusan's Master Plan and Investment Programs         ..........   11
Project  Objectives  ............       ........................  11
Project Description .........       ..........................    12
Subproject Approval .........       ..........................    12
Project Cost and Financing  .       ............................   13
Project Implementation ................................    13
Procurement ..............     .............................    14
Disbursements ..................... , . ........    15
Accounts and Audits .15
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .16
Justification and Benefits .16
Cost Recovery.                                                 16
Economic Rate of Return ...............................   16
Environmental Aspects .17
Risks .17
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......      ..............   18
ANNEXES
1.   Policy Statement and Institutional
Development Program ............................   19
2.   Pusan City Organization ...........................   24
3.   Institutional Arrangements for Urban Transportation    28
4.   Procedures and Policies for Project Selection  .....   31
5.   Financial Projections - PCG's General Account .....    34
6.   Financial Projections PCG's Special Accounts   ......   38
7.   Draft Bylaws and Regulations for the Pusan Fund
Management Special Account .....       ................   44
8.   Assumptions for Financial Projections ....      .........   51
9.   Development Strategy and Investments ....      ..........   54
10.  PCG's Investment Plan .............................    61
11.  Monitoring Indicators and Implementation S;hedule .    62
12.  Disbursement Schedule .............................    65
13.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance .......   66
14.  Documents Available in the Project File ....      .......   70
CHART          PCG's Organization Chart (In Annex 2) ....      .........   27
MAP            Pusan City (IBRD Map No. 202'0)



- 1 -
I. - THE URBAN SECTOR
Sectoral Background and Overview
1.01       In the past 25 years,  the Korean economy has been
transformed from predominantly rural-agricultural to urban-industrial.
Between 1960 and 1985, the proportion of GNP generated by agriculture
decreased from 48% to 13%. In the same period, the urban population
grew by 5.7% p.a i/,  increasing  from 30% of the total population to
f£X. It is estlirated that by the year 2000, over 80% of the population
w,il be living in cities. This will require the maintenance and
improvement of services for the existing population as well as some 13
m1l1ion additional urban dwellers.
1.02      Sector Organization.   Korea is divided into 9 provincial
governments, which include 46 cities and 139 counties. Cities and
counties are the basic units of local government. Seoul City, the
capital and largest city, reports directly to the Prime Minister. The
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) exerts strong control over the budget,
indebtness, taxes and rates, appointment of key personnel and
development plans ot the provinces and the other cities. The cities
of Pusan, Taegu, Incheon and Kwangju have provincial status.
Construction of large infrastructure facilities requires the approval
of the Ministry of Cunstruction (MOC), which undertakes and partially
subsidizes investments considered to be of national importance.
Development plans and tariff increases are coordinated and made
consistent with macroeconomic policie, set by the Economic Planning
Board (EPB). The number of staff positions and the organization of
each city is approved by the Ministry of Organization.   City
operations are divided between the General Account (GA) and the
Special Accounts  (SAs),  The SAs are operated as financially
autonomous municipal corporations, providing urban services with
direct cost recovery (water, sewerage, subway, toll roads, etc.). All
the remaining urban services and activities are included under the GA.
1.03       Sector Financing.   At least 65% of city budgets are
internally financed. The remaining funds are mainly shared taxes and
some borrowing. Local government expenditures now reach 40% of total
public expenditures and comprise about 11% of GNP. The main sources of
revenues for the cities are various property-related taxes (on
acquisition, registration, property, city planning, etc.), which
represent about 80% of the revenues of the GA. The tax rates are
approved by MOHA, and for equity reasons are the same nationwide. In
per capita terms, taxes are higher in cities like Seoul where real
estate is more expensive. A few years ago these taxes were increasing
by as much as 15% p.a. in real terms because of high rates of property
value increases and property turnover, both of which are much lower
now. This requires a gradual shift to increase the taxes based on
property value rather than on property turnover.
1/ Urban areas include all the cities, defined in Korea as having a
population of more than 50,000 inhabitants.



- 2-
The Urban Subsectors: An Overview
1.04      Over the past 20 years, urban development in Korea has
evolved from a relatively low priority to a major component of public
sector investments. Each city bears almost complete responsibility for
planning and providing most urban services and has much wider
responsibilities than is typical for cities in developing countries.
Given the high rate of urban population growth in Korea, it is
remarkable that the cities have for the most part been able to
maintain services at an adequate level. The Bank has financed a
variety of urban projects in Korea, most of which focused on
individual subsectors. The proposed Pusan Urban Management Project
would encompass subprojects in all urban subsectors, but would
emphasize Pusan's most critical problem, its urban management (Chapter
II). The following paragraphs highlight the main features,
constraints and issues of the Korean urban sector.
1.05     Water Supply.  About 70% of the urban population has house
connections, and water quality and quantity are satisfactory. However,
rapid increases in population, income, and industrialization require a
continuous expansion of water supply capacity. Since readily available
water sources have been exhausted, further use and protection of
underground water resources is needed. Under the Second Water Supply
Project (Loan 2350-KO), the Metropolitan Water Supply Project (Loan
2491-KO) and the Namgang and Taegu Water Supply Project (Loan 2615-
KO), the Bank has provided support to the Industrial Sites and Water
Resources Corporation (ISWACO) to provide bulk water supply to various
sites, optimizing the use of those resources and setting adequate
tariffs to rationalize water demand. Next to land, water is the most
scarce resource in Korea. This, coupled with a three-month rainy
season, requires the construction of expensive dams and long-term
planning of resources. The Nakdong Barrage, to be completed in 1987
under Ba-k Loan 2350-KO, would allow the use of water resources in the
lower part of the Nakdong River, now contaminated by salinity, while
establishing a Natural Ecological Preservation Area to give permanent
protection to the bird habitat in the estuary.
1.06      Sewerage and the Environment.  The mandatory use of septic
tanks with effluent discharge to combined sewers lessens degradation
to the environment. Separate industrial zones also facilitate the
treatment of industrial wastes. Concern about the pollution of the
country's main rivers has resulted in the recent construction of
expensive sewage treatment plants which now handle about 18% of all
raw sewage. The main goals in the subsector are to identify optimal
alternatives for sewage treatment, achieve adequate financing, and
coordinate the construction of sewage treatment plants and sewer
lines. Sewerage tariffs were introduced in several cities in 1986.
While water and sewerage services are now usually handled by different
agencies in Korea, the integration under the same organization of both
services, being studied under Loan 2615-KO, is likely to result in
better and cheaper services and improved coordination and financing of
investments. To safeguard the environment and food production
capacity, strong protection has been given to agricultural land and
green areas around main cities, and many parks and envirenmentally



-3-
protected areas have been established. The recently established
Office of Environment sets priorities for and is undertaking large
investments to improve the country's air, water and general
environmental quality.
1.07      Urban Transport.    Urban transport in Korea currently
functions well but has to cope with the explosive growth of car
ownership resulting from a rapid increase in GNP, averaging 8.5% p.a.
during the last 20 years. At present there is only one private
automobile per forty persons, which is much lower than the level in
other countries of comparable income, and is a result of high taxation
and financial disincentives to car ownership. However, in the last few
years, with the continuing increases in income and living standards
and the development of a car manufacturing industry, the registration
of automobiles has been increasing bv 20% p.a., doubling the total
stock every four years. As a result, urban transportation is now the
most critical investment for many cities. Public transportation,
mainly privately owned, operates efficiently and without government
subsidies. However, the short-term financing of recently built subway
systems in Seoul and Pusan is creating serious cash-flow problems in
these citiec. The sector also suffers from a lack of integration and
coordination among the different transport modes, mainly due to the
fragmentation of responsibilities for urban transport among several
gove-nment bureaus.   This results in inefficiencies, reduced
intermodal connections, and lack of uniform standards. The Seoul Urban
Transportation Project (Loan 2514-KO, 1985) is financing improvements
in several critical corridors in Seoul and improved coordination of
all transport activities in the city.
1.08     Land Development. Lack of serviced land is one of the main
constraints to urban development in Korea. Due to the country's high
population density of 400 persons per sq. km., one of the highest in
the world, and mountainous topography which reduces the useful land
area by two thirds, there is a permanent conflict between land
requirements for environmental preservation, urban and industrial
development, and agriculture. Government corporations play a critical
role in land development, and government policies are generally
satisfactory although some relaxatio:i is needed in the strict
protection provided to agricultural land in cities, since its economic
value for urban development is much higher. Improvements in the
efficiency, planning and effectiveness of the Korea Land Development
Corporation (KLDC) and support to develop additional urban land, in
particular for low-income housing, are being implemented
satisfactorily under the Bank-assisted Urban Land Development Project
(Loan 2704-KO, 1986).
1.09     Housing.  New housing construction is providing only about
half of the additional 400,000 units needed annually to meet current
demand for houses and eliminate backlogs over time. This results in
overcrowding, particularly in the larger cities, and the number of
urban households per housing unit almost doubled during the last ten
years. Korea has, however, been able to avoid the slums typical of
cities with high rates of population growth, and the residential area
per household, although small, increased from 34 to 47 sq. m. between



1970 and 1980. The First and Second National Urban Land and dousing
Projects (Loans 1980-KO and 2216-KO) supported the development of
KLDC, improved housing standards and planning, and emphasized the
construction of smaller units, affordable by low-income groups. Both
projects were completed satisfactorily. An additional constraint to
housing d3velopment is the lack of adequate housing finance. Only 7%
of the value of new housing and 15% of the units built since 1967 were
covered by formal loans. Although three quarters of recent buyers of
new homes obtained mortgages, less than 30% of the total house value
was financed, requiring large individual savings and higher-cost
borrowing outside formal channels.  Because of this large self-
financing ratio, the low- and medium-income groups have generally been
unable to own  houses.  Several improvements being considered under
the Bank's proposed Housing Finanee Sector Loan would expand market-
based lending for housing and target government-sponsored financing to
lower-income groups.
1.10      Regional Development.   Employment growth accompanied by
structural change has been both a cause and a result of urban growth.
Between 1960 and 1984 employment in agriculture fell from 61% to 33%,
while industrial employment increased from 9% to 28%.  Some
localities, however, are lagging behind: almost two thirds of the
population in Cholla Nam Province are still engaged in agriculture,
and employment differences result in a per capita income half that of
Seoul.   To  promote  regional  development  and  industrial
diversification, the Government has created numerous industrial
estates, pract!.,-ally creating new industrial cities like Pohang and
Changwon. To support balanced development in lagging regions, the Bank
supported two Regional Development Projects in Kwangju Region (Loans
1070 and 1758-KO) to improve infrastructure, promote employment and
improve services in the province. The Jeonju Regional Development
Project (Loan 2388-KO, 1984) is expanding these activities to Jeonbug
Province.
Bank Oblectives and Lending in the Sector
1.11       To date, the Bank has made 11 loans to Korea to support
urban arJ water supply projects. These projects (described above) are
being executed satisfactorily and completed on time. The Bank's
lending strategy for the sector is to support high priority
investments included in Government's development plans and through
these operations to improve the efficiency of sector institutions.
When appropriate, sector studies are used to consider policy and
institutional options. The results of such studies for water supply,
housing, spatial development and housing finance have been fed into
project design.  In its support of Government's development plans in
the sector, the Bank has the following key objectives:
(a) increase the supply of, improve policies for and strengthen
the delivery of urban services, in particular for the lower-
income population;



-5-
(b)  strengthen sector institutions, promote sound investment
planning with emphasis on least-cost alternatives, and
improve the efficiency of resource use; and
(c)  develop a solid financial basis for the sector, through
improvements in accounting, financial and management
information systems, and the adoption of appropriate cost
recovery and financial policies.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.12      The urban management project now proposed for Pusan City
capitalizes on the experience gained under previous Bank-assisted
projects in urban transport, water and sewerage, and land development,
and brings to bear the lessons learned under those projects in a
comprehensive way, both for city institutions and policies, as well as
for the overall management of the city. Bank support would facilitate
the introduction of improvements to centralize dispersed
transportation activities, optimize urban transportation, prioritize
urban investments, and ensure sound long-term planning. With its past
involvement with urban development in Korea and wide experience
elsewhere, the Bank is well placed to help Pusan to achieve these
objectives.  It is hoped that the improvements fostered under the
project would serve as models for other cities in Korea.
II. PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT
2.01      Pusan Urban Management Issues.  The Pusan City Government
(PCG), the borrower and beneficiary of the proposed project, faces
difficult and challenging urban management problems. These are due to
rapid population growth, which tripled the city's population in 25
years to 3.5 million in 1985, and to rapid economic development and
rising incomes which contributed to the increased demand for services.
As a result, major investments are needed for sewage treatment, water
supply and urban transport, all made more expensive by the city's
steep mountains and difficult topography.  At the same time, a
shortage of industrial land, coupled with environmental regulations to
move industries from residential neighborhoods, has reduced the rate
of growth of new industrial development, employment and the tax base.
2.02     Although PCG has been reasonably successful in meeting its
people's basic needs, serious financial constraints encumber city
management. These problems arose with the construction and short-term
financing of a subway, which requires debt service payments averaging
about $120 million per year. Capital expenditures for the subway took
most of the city's funds, forcing the postponement of a large number
of priority investments. In 1984, for example, subway expenditures



-6-
were 30% higher than all other capital expenditures of the city. The
financial problem was aggravated by declining tax revenues due to a
slowdown in real estate transactions (the main source of taxes), poor
investment planning, anO. the loss of industries to outlying areas.
Although subway construction will be indefinitely postponed after
completion of the first line in 1987 or early 1988, PCG still needs to
establish an institutional framework for investment planning and
financial management to cope with its financial problems, manage its
urban services, and maintain a balanced development. Agreement was
reached during negotiations on several changes in policies and
institutional arrangements designed to improve overall city
management. These would be implemented under a Policy Statement and
Institutional Development Program (PSIDP, Annex 1), which was
approved by PCG in March 1987. Agreement was also reached during
negotiations that PCG would discuss with the Bank any changes in the
PSIDt". With support from the central government, PCG has also set
several committees to study and promote the overall development of the
city. Measures under implementation include the expansion of the port
and the construction of large industrial sites. Further measures
Deing considered include commercial development and steps to increase
the revenue base of the city.
2.03     Institutional Framework.   Pusan's organizational structure
has not changed in 20 years. Until local autonomy is reestablished,
Pusan's Mayor is appointed by the President.  The Vice Mayor directs
the city's ten main administrative bureaus (Planning and Management,
Finance, Health, Industry, Transportation, Urban Planning,
Construction, Civil Defence, Fire Protection and Internal Affairs).
The activities and services provided by these bureaus are included in
the city's General Account (GA). The Planning and Management Bureau,
headed by an Assistant Mayor, is responsible for the city's overall
planning and budgeting. More than half of the city's staff of 13,000
persons are stationed in decentralized district offices.   Staff
efficiency is good (3.6 staff per thousand population), particularly
considering the scope of services provided. Municipal services which
have direct cost recovery (water, subway, housing, toll roads,
development of small industries, etc.), axe organized under semi-
autonomous Special Accounts (SAs), equivalent to municipal
corporations, which report directly to the Mayor.
2.04     At present, PCG's main organizational constraints are a weak
planning and policy-making capability as well as overlapping
responsibilities and diepersed and uncoordinated management of urban
transportation.  Solutions to these problems have been considered by
PCG for some time.  The PSIDP includes a major reorganization of the
city administration to consolidate specialized functions now scattered
across different bureaus, and the introduction of effective planning
and policy-making systems, especially for investment planning and
financial management. Joint management of water and sewerage services
would also be introduced to improve the efficiency of these services.
To promote industrial development and rejuvenate the city's
increasingly outmoded industrial base (65% of employment is in
textiles, plywood, etc.), a new unit would be responsible to plan and
promote industrial and commercial development. The city also plans to



- 7-
study  the consolidation of all construction functions under a
Construction Center to correct current problems of under- or over-
utilized staff due to fluctuations in the level of investment in a
given division. Details of Pusan's organization are presented in
Annex 2.
2.05       Transportation System Management.    Road space as a
percentage of the city area is 11% in Pusan as compared with 17% in
Seoul. Although traffic congestion is Pusan's most serious urban
problem, investment has been directed at the physical expansion of the
network, while the coordination of different transport modes and the
optimization of existing facilities have received little attention.
Pusan's poor transport planning is partly due to the dispersion of
tiansportation planning responsibilities among several bureaus. To
address this problem, under the PSIDP, a new Bureau of Transportation
and Tourism would be created by December 31, 1987, to consolidate all
transport-related responsibilities in one agency.   Under this Bureau,
a recently established Traffic Planning Division would coordinate the
planning of all transport modes and be responsible for implementing
Transportation System Management (TSM) improvements. These would
involve small scale but  critical improvements to the principal
traffic corridors and in the central business district. The TSM
measures would help the city gain full benefits from the existing
transport system. The new Division would also be responsible for
preparation of a comprehensive annual transportation investment plan.
The institutional arrangements for transportation in Pusan appear in
Annex 3.
2.06      Investment Planning: Project Selection and Evaluation
system.   Pusan currently lacks a mechanism to review large or
technically complex projects, to optimize their benefits and to
determine inter-sectoral priorities. Particularly critical is the
review of SA investments since most of the city's forecasted cash
deficits are due to the SAs.  In accordance with the PSIDP, by
December 31,  1987  PCG would establish under the Planning and
Management Bureau a new Regional Development Division with an
Investment Management Unit.   This Division would:  (a) select
investment projects based on economic, technical, and financial
criteria (para. 3.06); (b) carry out feasibility reviews of large
investments; and (c) set guidelines for the selection of small
projects, which would be executed by the county offices and integrated
into PCG's budgeting system. The engineering and technical expertise
required would be provided by engineering staff and, when needed (for
large or technically complex projects), by a group of city advisers
(professors, experts, etc.).
2.07     Long-Term Financial Planning:  Management Information System.
Pusan, like most Korean cities, has no adequate long-term financial
plan. Long-term planning is needed (a) because many of the large
projects initiated now will require several years of investments
before their costs and benefits are realLzed and (b) to assess the
financial feasibility of loan-financed investments to be repaid in the
future.  A Long-Term Financial Plan (LTFP) was developed during
project preparation and simulated in microcomputers. The LTFP would be



-   8    -
reviewed, adjusted and used by the city to improve its financial
planning and management. The computer model (see summaries in Annexes
5 and 6) provides detailed projections for all the SAs and total city
finances, as well as consolidated results and monitoring indicators
for management use. This monitoring and performance evaluation is
particularly important for the SAs in order to promote efficiency,
effectiveness and cost recovery.   The LTFP would allow better
forecasting of financial resources and expenditures, provide
integrated financial data for the city, and allow planning for cost
recovery, borrowing and repayment strategies. To facilitate
development of the system during its initial years, through close Bank
involvement, agreement was reached at negotiations that Pusan's Long-
Term Financial Plan and its Investment Plan (which would include a
list of subprojects proposed for Bank financing), would be updated at
least annually and submitted to the Bank for review by March 15 of
each year. Pusan would also present semiannual reports on project
implementation and expenditures and prepare a project completion
report six months after the closing date of the proposed loan.
2.08     Improved Financing and Cost Recovery:  Pusan Fund Management
Special Account.   Pusan's Special Accounts have a budget almost equal
to the city's GA and capital expenditures more than twice those of the
GA. Cost recovery is good and most SAs are self-financing through user
charges,  which are generally satisfactory.   Although most SA
investments have been financed by loans, the city provides investment
grants of about $30 million per year to the SAs. Starting in 1988,
PCG intends to phase out its subsidies for those SAs which can recover
the cost of services (e.g., water, sewerage, subway, toll roads, land
adjustment and housing) and convert its financial support into lorg-
term loans. The funds recovered would not only provide new financial
resources for other projects, but further promote cost recovery and
financial discipline. To this end Pusan City is considering the
establishment of a Pusan Fund Management Special Account (PFMSA). The
PFMSA would also help in securing better financing for both the
General and Special Accounts, and better management of cash resources
for the city. The PFMSA would finance priority SA investments found
economically and technically justified. The draft bylaws for the PFMSA
(Annex 7) propose overall management by a Board of Directors, chaired
by the Vice Mayor. Day-to-day operations would be under the Director
of Planning and Management.  Technical reviews would be carried out
with the assistance of technical staff and external experts. In
cooperation with higher-level authorities, PZG plans to undertake a
detailed study of the organization, finances and legal changes for the
PFMSA. Agreement was reached during negotiations that a study of the
PFMSA would be provided to the Bank for review not later than December
31, 1987.
2.09     PCG Taxes and Revenues.  The six main city taxes and their
relative share of the total tax revenues in 1985 are registration
(24.2%), acquisition (23.0%), property (15.4%), inhabitants (11.9%),
city planning (8.1%) and vehicles (6.7%).  These taxes represent
almost 90% of the total taxes in 1985, compared with 88% in 1981. A
variety of other taxes and fees complete the remaining 10%. Total
taxes in 1986 were W170 billion ($200 million), which represent about



-9-
60% of the budget (total cash sources) of the city. During 1980-86 tax
revenues were doubled, and during 1982-84, tax revenues increased up
to 11% p.a. in real terms. However, recent tax increases have been
smaller (5% p.a.), since the main taxes are based on property
turnover, which has slowed with the city's decreasing rate of
expansion.   There is little possibility of increasing the GA's
revenues since, for equity reasons, and to promote sound budget
management, all major taxes have the same rates nationwide.
2.10      Share taxes in Korea are used to complement the cities's
revenues, and are collected and allocated by the central government
based on a complex methodology that targets a higher share to the
cities with higher operational needs. Pusan's share suffered many
fluctuations in the past (it doubled during 1983-85, but was reduced
by 25% in 1986). This has made budgeting difficult, particularly since
the amount of share taxes is defined by the central government only
when the city budget is practically completed (by December of each
year). Total government grants, including contributions for social
programs average about 7% of the city budget, which is one of the
lowest rates among Korean cities. Recurrent revenues (Annex 5),
including user charges, are mainly from sewerage (established in
1985), tolls, garbage 0ollection, and many other miscellaneous
charges, which provided 16% of the 1986 budget. The city's non-
recurrent revenues (12% of the 1986 budget) fluctuate widely from year
to year, according to the sale of land. The GA has been very
conservative in borrowing, and its debt service represents less than
1% of its budget.
2.11      GA Finances.  Operational expenses are well controlled and
monitored through detailed budgets for each division. The main
administrative expense, personnel, which includes some 13,000
employees, represents about 70% of total administrative expenses.
Staff efficiency is good, resulting from a controlled expansion of
personnel, both at the city and at the central government level.
The financial position of the GA is satisfactory. Self-raised revenues
provide about 90% of the GA budget, and loans and grants the remaining
10%. Since tax rates are fixed and are expected to be changed slowly
over time, the city's financial management is centered on revenue
collection, which is good (exceeding 92%), control of expenditures and
proper project, selection. Under the LTFP lower-priority investments
have been postponed, and a balanced budget has been proposed. A major
factor in city finances is the city's rate of development. To promote
this, long-term measures are also being taken by the city to improve
its tax base and increase the city development (para. 2.02).  It will
also be necessary to reflect quickly price increases into the real
estate cadastre, so that the city gets the full revenues possible
under the approved tax rates. While GA debt was negligible in the
past (debt service amounted to 1% of the budget), the need to provide
long-postponed investments requires the proposed Bank loan. Moreover,
the investment program have been reduced drastically on account of
available resources; this curtailed many needed subprojects. To
execute these subprojects, PCG would have to find mechanisms to
increase its cash generation by some $160 million, including
additional local and foreign loans during l988-90. Even considering



- 10 -
these loans, PCG's GA would have an excellent capacity to serve its
debt, with a debt service ratio of 10. Under these conditions, GA
finances would be satisfaL.tory in the foreseeable future. Detailed
financial projections and monitoring indicators for the GA are
presented in Annex 5; assumptions for the financial projections are
explained in Annex 8.
2.12      SA Finances.   Municipal services which have direct cost
recovery capacity (water, subway, housing, toll roads, development of
small industries, etc.), are organized under the semi-autonomous SAs,
which are equivalent to municipal corporations. There are 12 SAs, but
two of them, the Subway and Water Supply SAs, represent three quarters
of the SAs' budget.   Except for the Subway SA, the SAs show a
satisfactory financial performance, although under the LTFP some of
their investments had been curtailed. Due to lower than expected
demand, the Water Supply SA will have to increase its bond-financing
(by revolving previous bond issues) and reduce new investments.
However, its rate of return is expected to remain between 4% and 9%,
which is satisfactory. The Municipal Housing Construction SA has a
budget of about $20 million per year and promotes the construction of
houses for lower-income persons (about 600 per year). Houses are
intended to be provided at cost, but actually this SA shows positive
net incomes averaging about $2 million per year between 1987 and 1990.
The remaining SAs are small and show sound financial management and
reasonable budgeting systems. Financial projections for the main SAs
(Subway, Water Supply, Housing, Heavy Equipment and Toll Roads) are
presented in Annex 6 and performance monitoring indicators for the SAs
are presented in Annex 11. Projections and financial assumptions for
all SAs are available in the Project File.
2.13     PCG's main financial problem is the Subway SA.  The first 26
km of the subway would be completed by mid-1987 at a reasonable cost
of $700 million; however, construction of the two less important lines
will have to be postponed indefinitely. Improper analysis of demand,
lack of adequate long-term financial planning, and excessive short-
term loans have created a difficult financial situation for the city.
Subway fares are low, to match the bus rates, but are eupected to
cover operating expenses starting in 1987. Interest expenses are
high, since most of the construction and cash deficits have been
financed by l9ans. To cover operation and interest expenses, subway
fares or ridership would have to double in the next few years
(reaching the feasibility study forecast). With expected fare
increases, this is likely to be achieved by 1992. The Subway SA's
financial problems are compounded by its short-term financing and the
revaluation of its loans (mainly in Japanese yen). Contributions by
the Central Government and the GA of averaging about W 20 billion each
per year will be needed until 1990, as well as refinancing of some of
the short-term loans. The resulting financial position would be tight
but feasible. In the long term, increased subway ridership, a gradual
reduction in debt and interest, and higher fares made feasible by
increased incomes would result in a viable financial position.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      Proiect  Origin and Formulation.   The proposed project
supports Government's plan to improve Pusan City and strengthen its
finances and urban management. PCG initially requested financing for a
secor.+1 urban expressway, but that project had to be postponed when it
was realized that the city urgently needed to reshape its
organization, finances and investments. This became apparent because
previous investn'ints, averaging $400 million p.a. during 1983-86, were
not properly prioritized or undertaken in the context of a well-
formulated strategy linking long-term plans and programs with
available resources. These investments (mainly for the subway and
highways) forced a postponement of smaller but higher priority works.
The Government requested financing for this project in September 1986.
3.02      Pusan's Master Plan and  Investment Programs. A Master Plan
for the development of Pusan City until the year 2000 was prepared by
Government in 1986. The Plan was designed to meet the changing needs
of the city, which, due to high population densities in the city
center (60,000 persons per sq. km.), is developing toward peripheral
areas, where population has increased by almost one million persons
during the last ten years. The Master Plan is adequately formulated
and proposes to: (a) improve the central business district by
rehabilitation and improvements, the relocation of industries and
promotion of commercial activities; (b) improve city transportation by
coordinating the subway, bus and other transport systems, and by
executing Transport System Management (TSM) improvements; (c) promote
new residential and industrial estates to improve housing, expand the
industrial and tax base, and relocate improperly zoned industries; and
(d) maintain adequate green areas and improve and protect the
environment. During project preparation, a detailed review of the
city's priorities resulted in the establishment of a satisfactory
Investment Plan within an integrated financial plan. At the same time,
about $400 million of lower-priority investments were postponed
between 1987 and 1990, including additional subway lines, large
highways and some sewage treatment plants. Most of the remaining
investments included in the plan for 1987-89 are small, high-priority
works encompassing a variety of urban services, and would mainly
benefit lower-income neighborhoods. The GA's Investment Plan for the
project period, i.e., 1987-89, envisions expenditures of W 458 billion
($532 million), including a foreign exchange component of about $168
million (Annex 10). The proposed project would finance about one
third of the Investment Plan.
3.03      Project  Objectives.  The proposed project would focus on
improvement of the city's urban management and finances. The project



- 12  -
objectives are to: (a) improve the city's organization and
coordination; (b) strengthen project selection and investment
planning; (c) coordinate and optimize transportation planning and
investments, now the city's most critical problem; (d) strengthen the
city's financial, planning and managerial systems; and (e) support
priority investments and the balanced development of the city.
3.04       Projgect Description.  The proposed project would support
the implementation of a comprehensive program of inetitutional and
policy development for PCG, and would finance about one third of the
investments included in the city's Investment Plan, with emphasis on
small, complementary works which complete the benefits of existing
infrastructure. The project comprises about 3j0 subprojects each over
W 0.4 billion and many smaller investments including the expansion and
improvement of: (a) priority roads (expansion, rehabilitation,
paving); (b) a comprehensive program of low-cost transportation
improvements under the Transportation System Management (TSM); (c)
drainage, flood protection and sewerage works; (d) embankment and
steep slope protection; and (e) city services (markets, landfill,
equipment, community facilities). Most of these works are in low-
income areas. Road improvements are particularly important by
providing access to many urban services.
3.05      The main project component would be the strengthening of
PCG's urban management, organization and finances. These improvements,
included in the approved PSIDP (para. 2.02), have already been
proposed by the city to MOHA, and would: (a) establish by December 31,
1987, a new Bureau of Transportation and Tourism, (which would include
the recently created Traffic Planning Division), to consolidate
planning of all transportation systems and investments; (b) establish
the TSM unit by December 31, 1987 to implement small but important
improvements to optimize existing transport facillties; (c) establish
joint management of water and sewerage services by December 31, 1988
to improve the efficiency, coordination and financi'g of these
services; (d) establish by December 31, 1987 an Investment Management
Unit to criticall-' review and evaluate large investments and improve
the guidelines for prioritizing small projects; (e) eitablish by
December 31, 1987 a long-term planning and management information
system, including performance monitoring of the GA and SAs; (f)
establish a yearly review of the city's Investment Plan to set
priorities and maintain a satisfactory financial position; (g) expand
existing in-house training programs to provide training in
transportation management, urban planning, computer applications,
budgeting and financial planning; and (h) complete before December 31,
1987 studies for the PFMSA (para. 2.08), to foster cost recovery,
integrated financial management and better use of the city's cash
resources. Agreement was reached during negotiations that PCG would
annually review with the Bank the progress achieved in implementing
its Institutional Development Program, with the first review to take
place before December 31, 1987.
3.06     Subproject Approval.  PCG has satisfactory guidelines to set
priorities and evaluate the feasibility of subprojects. Project
analysis and prioritization would be reinforced by the establishment



- 13 -
of the new Investment Management Unit. All projects costing more than
W S billion, which represent 80% of the value but 30% of the number of
subprojects, would be prioritized by this unit (para. 2.06). The use
of basic guidelines for Bank financed subprojects (AiLnex 4, para. 6),
was confirmed at negotiations. The Bank would review feasibility
studies for subprojects proposed for Bank financing costing more than
W 8 billion.
3.07      Project Cost and  Financing.   The proposed project would
finance about $194 million of priority investments included in PCG's
1987-89 Tnvestment Plan, including a foreign exchange component of
about $50 million and taxes and duties of about $2 million (Table
3.1).  Cost estimates are based on detailed designs and recently
awarded contract prices for similar works. For projects designed by
PCG staff, the engineering cost is included in the city's operational
expenses; for other projects, the engineering cost is included in the
subproject cost. Base costs are expressed in March 1987 prices.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 5% of base costs in
light of experience with similar works and the programmatic character
of the project. Estimated price increases over the project period
amount to about 2% of base costs plus physical contingencies.   Price
increases for local and foreign costs are estimated at 3% for 1987,
and 1% for 1988-89. Land costs are based on market prices and are high
in the city center, where population densities are high. The Bank loan
would finance the foreign exchange component of the project (25.8%).
The remaining costs would be firnanced by PCG's internal cash
generation.
TABLE 3.1 - PROJECT COST a]
----Billion Won ----  X Base  ----- Million $ -----  X
Local Foreign Total  Cost Local Foreign Total Foreign
Roads and Highways          79.46 27.92 107.38 69.92 92.40  32.47 124.87  26.0X
Drainage, Sewerage and Flood Control  9.11  3.78  12.89  8.4X 10.59  4.39  14.98  29.32
Embankment and Slope Protection  8.82  2.63  11.45  7.5X 10.26  3.06  13.32  23.0X
Community Facilities         9.16  2.29 11.45  7.5% 10.66  2.66  13.32  20.0X
Transportation System Management  4.14  1.86  6.00  3.9%  4.81  2.16  6.98  31.0X
Transit Centers              2.77  1.03  3.80  2.5%  3.23  1.19  4.42  27.0%
TSM Technical Assistance     0.64  0.11  0.75  0.5%  0.74  0.13  0.87  15.0X
Base Cost, March 1987 Prices  114.11  39.62 153.73 100.0% 132.69  46.07 178.76  25.8Z
Physical Contingencies      5.71  1.98  7.69  5.0%  6.63  2.30  8.94  25.8X
Price Contingencies         4.03  1.40  5.42  3.5%  4.68  1.63  6.31  25.8X
TOTAL COST                 123.84  43.00 166.84 108.5X 144.00  50.00 194.00  25.8%
a] Due to rounding, the last digit in totals may appear different than the sua of columns
3.08      Project Imlementation.   The project would be implemented
under the direction of the Assistant Mayor for Planning and
Management, who would coordinate the studies, planning, and the
institutional development program. Construction of major works would
be supervised by the Bureau of Construction, and minor works by the



- 14  -
County Engineering Offices. The staff of both agencies are competent
and adequate, and have been able to manage similar levels of
investments in recent years. Planning and design of major works,
mainly routine civil works, have been carried out satisfactorily by
local consultants, with occasional assistance of foreign consultants;
small works are designed by county engineers and are teviewed by the
Bureau of Construction. The project is in an advanced stage of
preparation and final designs are ready for all works planned for
1987. Subprojects to be included after 1987 would be based on an
annual review of the Investment Plan. The implementation schedule
(Annex 11), based on previous years' performance, is realistic.
Advance contracting is recommended for some small subprojects started
after the appraisal, in order to use the budget allocation for 1987
and to accelerate the achievement of project benefits. PCG has had
long experience in acquiring land, which 'or the proposed project is
distributed in many small areas all over the city. Land acquisition
procedures, based on negotiations and market values set by independent
appraisers, are satisfactory. To develop and retain internal expertise
on institutional and management improvement matters, PCG plans to have
its staff take primary responsibility for the studies proposed in the
PSIDP, with the support of individual advisors and consultants as
needed. It is estimated that about 21 man-months of foreign
consultants and about 81 man-months of local consultants would be
needed for studies, technical support and training for the TSM and the
institutional development programs. Consultants for TSM would be
appointed under Terms of Reference (Annex 13) and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The project would be completed by June 30,
1990.
3.09     Procurement.  Procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in Table 3.2. International competitive bidding (ICB) would
be required for all civil works contracts exceeding $5 million each,
aggregating to about $27 million. Other civil works aggregating to
about $58 million, would be by local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. These works are not
expected to attract foreign bidders because they are scattered and
small (averaging less than $0.4 million each), and because of the
efficiency of the local contracting industry. A limited amount of
force account work, aggregated to $6 million, would be used for
dispersed and very small works (less than $100,000 each), which the
city requires to undertake at very short notice. Construction
materials (mainly cement and steel reinforcements) are purchased for
all Korean cities at prices obtained in bids requested by the Office
of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK). Because of large volume bids
and the competitiveness of the Korean industry, this procurement is
efficient and prices are well below international prices. However, the
purchase of construction materials will entail a large number of
purchase orders every year because each subcontract within each of the
city counties requires a separate budgetary control. About 1,200
purchase orders for construction materials would be issued in 1987
alone. To simplify the loan administration, Bank financing would be
limited to civil works and the equipment and materials required for
the TSM program. These materials and equipment, all under $0.3 million
per contract and aggregating to about $1 million, would also be



- 15 -
procured through LCB. Procurement documents would be standardized,
and contracts costing more than $1.2 million (W 1 billion) would be
handled by OSROK which for many years has satisfactorily carried out
procurement of civil works and goods in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The Bank's prior review of contracts would therefore be
limited to contracts requiring ICB.
TABLE 3.2 - PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW AND BANK FINANCING ($ Million) a]
Prolect Element               ---- Procurement Method ---    Total
ICB     LCB      Other     Cost
Civil Works                     27 (14)   58 (31)    10 (4)    95 (49)
Materials, Equip. & Tech.Assist.           1 ( l)b]  15 (-)   16 ( 1)
Land Acquisition and Taxes                 -         83 (-)   83 ( -)
Total                    27 (14)   59 (32)   108 (4)   194 (50)
a]  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank loan.
b] Includes Bank financing of $1 million for TSH equipment.
3.10      Disbursements.    The proceeds of the Bank loan would be
disbursed against i) 70% of expenditures for civil works aggregated to
a total amount of $95.0 million; and ii) 100% of expenditures for
materials, equipment for the TSM component aggregating to a total
value of $1.0 million. A Special Account of $6 million would be
established to expedite loan disbursements for eligible expenditures.
To reduce the volume of paperwork, contracts below $1 million would be
disbursed under Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Disbursement of the
Bank loan (Annex 12) is expected to take four years, which is
comparable to the disbursement profile of Industrial Development
Finance projects in Korea, and is feasible given the project's
sectoral character. The closing date of the loan would be December
31, 1990. Given the city's financial condition and the need for larfN
investments for land acquisition several months ahead of project civiA
works financed by the Bank, retroactive financing of about $5.0
million (10% of the proposed loan) is recommended for contracts signed
after February 1, 1987.
3.11      Accounts and  Audits.   PCG's accounting procedures are
satisfactory. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that within
six months of the end of each fiscal year PCG would furnish to the
Bank an audit report for project expenditures, the SOEs and the
Special Account, as audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
4.01       Justification and Benefits.   By strengthening the
organization, planning, policies and management of PCG, and
implementing a priority investment program, the proposed project would
improve the standard of living of the population, and strengthen the
finances and provide a reliable base for the development of Pusanl
City. These improvements would be a model for other cities in Korea,
expanding the project benefits. The improved coordination of
transportation through the introduction of transport system management
techniques and organizational improvements would have high payoffs
both in economic terms and by the reduction of accidents and saving of
lives through improved road safety. The project has already resulted
in the definition of a priority Investment Plan, postponement oi
lower-priority, large investments and emphasis on small works needed
to achieve the full benefits of existing infrastructure or to allow
the provision of other urban services. Since most investments would be
constructed in lower-income neighborhoods, it is estimated that at
least 20% of the project cost would benefit persons from the poverty
group (which totals about 16% of Pusan's population). The project
would also improve the health and environmental living conditions of
the population through the provision of improved services of
sanitation,  drainage,  water  supply,  solid waste,  roads,
transportation, and the promotion of balanced development of the
overall city.
4.02      Cost  Recovery.  PCG's taxes and charges for services are
generally adequate to recover operation and investment costs.
However, lower than expected demand for subway services, the
competition of other transportation systems and the large percentage
of short-term loans used to finance the subway would require
considerable government contributions to the Subway SA during the next
few yea:s (para. 2.13).
4.03     Economic Rate of Return. PCG's Investment Plan is a balanced
program whereby investments have been evaluated to produce high
economic and social returns.  The economic return of investments in
social services, sewerage, general services, drainage, etc. are
difficult to quantify, particularly for small subprojects.  The
economic analysis is further complicated by the large number of
subsectors and subprojects (more than one thousand) included in the
Investment Plan. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for subprojects
representing two thirds of project investments average 24%, which is
satisfactory (Annex 9). Given the selection process and financial
constraints of PCG, only projects with an ERR above 12% are considered
by the city.



- 17  -
4.04      Environmental Aspects.   The project supports a series of
investments to improve the urban environment. Land zoning would
improve the central city business district environment, in terms of
population density and traffic congestion. Rezoning of industrial
areas away from residential areas will improve living conditions
within the city. Other measures to improve the city environment are
also included in the city Master Plan. Between 1987 and 1991 the park
area within the city will be expanded from 12.3 sq. km to 33.0 sq.
km. Sewerage networks will be expanded and would collect industrial
wastes presently discharged into the Nakdong estuary. Three sewage
treatment plants are under construction, and over the next ten years
about three quarters of the city's sewage would be treated. A new
solid waste disposal site located away from the city area will be used
beginning   in 1987. Improvement of the road network through
construction of new and upgrading of existing roads combined with the
Traffic System Management component will reduce traffic congestion and
improve air quality. Finally, the construction of access and fire
truck roads will reduce fire losses and facilitate the provision of
city cleaning and other services, thus improving the population's
living conditions.
4.05     Risks. There are no serious risks to the project.  The risk
of some delay in central government approval of the institutional and
policy reforms is minimized by PCG's commitment to the proposed
institutional programs and its intention to implement these measures
in less than one year.



- 18 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKENDATION
5.01      PCG has approved the Policy Statement and Institutional
Development Program acceptable to the Bank (Annex 1). Agreement has
been reached that any changes in the policy statement will be
discussed with the Bank (para 2.02).
5.02     Agreements were reached during negotiations that:
(a)  PCG would annually submit to the Bank for review its
Investment Plan and updated Long-Term Financial Plan (para.
2.07);
(b)  A copy of the study for the Pusan Fund Management Special
Account would be sent to the Bank for review not later
than December 31, 1987 (para. 2.08);
(c)  PCG would annually review with the Bank the progress
achieved in implementing the Institutional Development
Program (para. 3.05);
(d)  PCG will use the agreed criteria for subproject approval and
selection (para. 3.06);
(e)  Project expenditures, the SOEs and the Special Account would
be audited by independent auditors (para 3.11)
5.03      With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of $50 million, for a term
of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years, at the standard
variable interest rate.   The borrower would be the Pusan City
Government.



- 19 -
Pusan,  March, 16   1987
Mr.
Barber B. Conable
President
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C., USA
Reference; Proposed USS 50 million Loan for a Pusan Urban
Management Project
Dear Mr. Conable:
I attach herewith a Policy Statement and Institu-
tional Development Program, which has been adopted by Pusan
City Government(PCG) and which descibes thie principal polic-
ies and programs that.PCG will pursue to enhance the effici-
ency and effectiveness of urban management in Pusan City.
With Best Regards,
m, Joo-Ho
The mayor of Pusan City
'Attachment: PSIDP



- 20 -                ANNEX 1 - Page 2
KOREA
PUSAN CITY GOVERNMENT
Policy Statement and Institutional Development Program
Background
1.    The Pusan City Government (PCG) faces difficult and challenging
urban management problems. This results from a rapid population
growth, which tripled the city's population in 25 years to reach 3.5
million people in 1985. Moreover, rapid economic developm at and
rising incomes resulted in increased demand for services. During the
last ten years, the need to protect the environment has resulted in
costly investments in sewage treatment; similarlv, water consumption
doubled during this period, and the number of motor vehicles increased
five-fold. Steep mountains and difficult topographic characteristic
made investments more expensive.  At the same time shortages of
industrial land, coupled with environmental regulation to move
industries from residential neighborhoods, reduced the rate of new
industrial development, employment and the tax base. Pusan City has
been reasonably successful in maintaining an orderly city development
and attending to all basic needs, but it now faces financial
constraints at a time when there are many priority investmen;s which
have been postponed during the years when the subway was under
construction.
PCG's Objectives
2.      PCG's policy is to implement its programs in accordance with
sound management and financial principles. It operates under the
overall direction of the Korean Government. Its main objectives are
described in the Sixth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan.
During the period 1987-89, PCG intends to improve its management
efficier.cy and productivity by implementing the Institutional
Development Program described below.
Urban Management
3.       PCG's policy is to fulfill Government's economic and social
objectives, with particular emphasis on maintaining sound progress for
the entire city and a balanced development of all counties (Gu). PCG's
policy is to manage its functions efficiently, paying particular
attention to program and project planning, financial management and
staff training. In particular, PCG will complete the development of
its computer-based financial management system to include the overall
accounting and budgeting system, will promote the development of its
human resources to achieve better efficiency and productivity, and
will improve its long-term planning to reflect changing needs and
priorities, and fulfill the aspirations of the population.



- 21 -                 ANNEX I - Page 3
Organization
4.        Pusan's organizational structure has changed little during
the last 20 years. To improve its organization PCG has already
presented a proposal to the Ministry of Home Affairs to consolidate
specialized functions that are scattered across different bureaus.
This consolidation would particularly benefit the transport sector.
Although traffic congestion is Pusan's most serious urban problem,
transport investments have emphasized the physical expansion of the
network, while the coordination of different methods of transportation
and the full utilization of existing facilities received little
priority. This is particularly important since most of the city's
investments are in transportation. A new Bureau of Transportation and
Tourism would be created and staffed before the end of 1987. This
Bureau would consolidate the presently dispersed activities in urban
transportation and would include the recently established Traffic
Planning Division to be responsible for Transportation System
Management (TSM).   This  Division  would prepare an annual
transportation plan, coordinate the planning for all transportation
systems and implement small but critical improvements to obtain full
benefits from the existing transportation system. To support TSM
activities, PCG plans to hire consultants in urban transportation.
5.       An additional improvement being studied by the city would be
the establishment by 1988 of a joint management for water and sewerage
services.   This is expected to improve the efficiency of these
services because of the need for close integration in planning,
billing, and constructing these services and the better sharing and
planning of financial resources.
6.       The city will also study the benefits of consolidating all
construction functions under a Construction Center, as has been done
successfully in Seoul.  This would allow sharing, consolidating, and
specialization of construction activities, and avoid the problem of
changing organization and staffing when new projects are undertaken by
a Division.
Improved Financing and Cost Recovery
7.       PCG policy is to recover the cost of urban services,  while
giving proper consideration to their affordability by low-income
persons. Adequate cost recovery is the best guarantee for the proper
maintenance and expansion of urban services. This is particularly
important for the Special Accounts, which have a total budget almost
equal to the General Account and are undertaking huge capital
expenditures, more than twice those of the General Account. The
Special Accounts are intended to be self-financing through user
charges. Although most of the Special Accounts' investments have been
financed by loans, the city has particularly been providing subsidies
of less than W 25 billion per year for the subway investment. Starting
in 1988, PCG intends to phase out its subsidies for the Special
Accounts which can recover the cost of services (mainly water,
sewerage, subway, toll roads, land adjustment and housing) and convert
its financial support into soft, long-term loans. The funds recovered



- 22 -                ANNEX 1 - Page 4
would not only provide new financial resources for other projects, but
induce cost recovery and financial discipline. To this end Pusan City
is considering the establishment of a Pusan Fund Management Special
Account (PFMSA). The PFMSA would also help in securing joint and
better financing for both the General and Special Accounts, and better
management of cash resources for the city. The PFMSA would finance
priority investments by the Special Acccounts. The projects' economic
and technical justification would be evaluated using standard criteria
for subprojects in each sector. In cooperation with higher-level
authorities PCG plans to undertake a detailed study of the
organization, finance and legal changes for the PFMSA. This study
would be completed before December 31, 1987.
Strategic Investment Planning: Project Selection and Evaluation System
8.        PCG policy is to undertake projects which provide maximum
benefit to the population, while maintaining a sound financial
position for the city. Success in achieving these objectives depends
largely on the process of selecting the best projects. PCG would
establish a new Division for critical review and evaluation of large
investments (above W 5 billion each) using standard economic,
technical, and financial criteria. Since most of the investments are
small and standard economic  7.c financial analyses are not feasible,
this Division would prepare guidelines for the selection and
establishing the priority of small projects. To achieve this, Pusan
City plans to establish, before December 31, 1987, a new Regional
Development Division and an Investment Management Unit, under the
Planning and Management Bureau.   The required engineering and
technical expertise would be provided by engineering staff at.A, when
needed (for large or tubchnically complex projects), by a group of city
advisers (professors, experts, etc.).
Financial Planning and Forecasting: Management Information System
9.       Pusan requires long-term financial planning because many of
the large investments initiated now would require financing for
several years and their benefits would only be felt after completion.
Moreover, long-term planning would allow proper decision making for
loan-financed investments, which would have to be repaid after the
grace period expires several years later. Starting in 1987, PCG plans
to use a computerized Long-Term Financial Plan (LTFP) to update
semiannually its financial projections and ensure the financial
viability of the General and Special Accounts. At the beginning of
each calendar year, PCG would also' update its Investment Plan
(detailing the investments for the last and the next two years). The
LTFP would include a series of basic indicators to monitor annually
the performance of the General and the Special Accounts, and promote
efficiency, effectiveness and cost recovery. To further improve its
financial planning capacity, in 1987 PCG would introduce
microcomputers to the Planning and Management Bureau to strengthen and
facilitate its planning and budgeting activities.



- 23 -                ANNEX I - Page 5
Staff Training
10.      PCG presently has an in-house training institute for all its
staff. To reach its objective of securing and retaining highly
qualified professional manpower and increasing staff efficiency and
motivation, PCG proposes to provide in 1987 and 1988, additional
training for high-level staff, particularly in areas of transportation
management, urban planning, computer applications, budgeting and
financial planning.



- 24 -                   ANNEX 2-Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan City Organization
Local Government Organization
1.        Korea has three levels of local government: provinces (Do),
cities (Si), and counties (Gun).  There are nine provinces which
include 46 cities and 139 counties. In addition Seoul, the capital
and largest city, has "Special Status" and reports directly to the
Prime Minister, and the four next largest cities have "direct
jurisdiction" with provincial status. Other than Seoul, all cities
are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA).
Subdistricts of the five cities are wards (Gu) which are equivalent to
provincial counties.
Pusan City Organization
2.        With a population of 3.5 million, Pusan is the second
largest city in Korea and has the country's largest port. Pusan's
organizational structure ha4 not changed in 20 years. Until local
autonomy is reestablished, kusan's Mayor is appointed by the
President. The Vice Mayor directs the ten main bureaus (Planning and
Management, Finance, Health, Industry, Transportation, Urban Planning,
Construction, Civil Defense, Fire Protection and Internal Affairs).
The bureaus are divided into 40 divisions, headed by directors. The
activities and services provided by the bureaus are included in the
city's General Account (GA). The Planning and Management Bureau,
headed by an Assistant Mayor, is responsible for the city's overall
planning and budgeting.
3.       All public and municipal services are provided directly and
financed by PCG either through the GA or the Special Accounts
(SAs) (para. 5). However, as in other cities in Korea, some services
which are considered of national importance and may not be properly
provided or financed by each city are under central government
jurisdiction. These include all primary and high school education,
which is administered and financed by a Board of Directors under the
jurisdictions of the Ministry of Education; similarly, the police
force is under MOHA's jurisdiction. The provision of electricity and
gas is the responsibility of national parastatal corporations.
4.        About 55% of the 13,000 city employees are stationed in
decentralized district offices, which include 10 wards (Gu), one field
office and 217 smaller precincts (Dong). The average Gu has about
320,000 residents and the average Dong about 16,000.  Each Gu is
organized into nine divisions (Taxes, Social Services, Public Heaith,
General Administration, Construction, Urban Planning, Water Supply,
Public Relations and Civil Defense). Some of the city's bureaus
operate their own field of-ices separate from the Gu, such as public
health centers, housing construction offices, road construction
offices, and water supply offices to bill, collect, and control the



- 25 -
ANNEX 2-Page 2
distribution systems. Almost 200 employees are "national government"
personnel paid by the Central Government. These employees include the
city's highest ranking ofkicials. Staff efficiency is good (3.6 staff
per thousand population), particularly considering the scope oL
services provided by the city.
5.       Municipal services which have direct cost recovery capacity
(water, subway, housing, toll roads, development of small industries,
etc.) are organized under the semi-autonomous SAs, which are
equivalent to municipal corporations. There are 12 SAs, the largest
ones (Subway and Water Supply) report directly to the Mayor. Improper
analys's of demand by the SAs, lack of adequate long-term financial
planrning, and excessive short-term (3 to 5 years) loans have created a
difficult financial situation for the city.  In particular, subway
construction required substantial contributions from the GA and
overstretched the city's finances.
6.        Cost recovery, billing and collection are generally good.
However, to support construction, given the lack of an alternative
financial mechanism, the city provides considerable subsidies to the
SAs. In the case of the subway, these subsidies also supported the
initial operation of the system, until ridership increases to cover
the cost of operations. Further support by PCG would be needed until
the subway covers its total operating expenses, including interest.
This is expected by 1991 through a combination of additional ridership
and fare increases. However, there is no mechanism to devolve these
contributions to the GA, even if the financial situation of the SA
becomes adequate. Moreover, any unused cash in a given SA (for
example because of fluctuations in construction expenses) cannot be
used by the city or other SAs, preventing full financial control.
Each SA undertakes its own borrowing or issues its own bonds, which
may conflict with other city needs.  The proposed PFMSA  (para. 2.08)
could solve these problems by converting GA's subsidies to soft-term
loans and fostering cost recovery. The PFMSA could also provide a
central clearing and control mechanism for the total borrowing of the
city, allow the city to issue debentures to finance both the GA and
SAs, and provide a mechanism to further review and control the
investments of the SAs.
Organizational Chan,-es
7.     Chart 1 shows an improved organizational structure for PCG
which has been submitted to MOHA for approval. The new organization
is aimed at strengthening technical functions of key divisions and
consolidating various specialized functions scattared across different
bureaus. The main changes include an integrated planning system for
all transportation activities (by far the city's largest investment),
through the establishment of a new Transportation and 'i'ourism Bureau,
and a Traffic Planning Division which would be responsible for
Transportation System Management (TSM) (Annex 3).  Equally important
would be the establishment of a new Regional Development Division
under the Bureau of Planning and Management. This Division, through
its Investment Management Unit, will evaluate and select new projects
using standard financial, economic, and technical criteria.



- 26 -
ANtiEX 2-Page 3
Additional medium-term improvements include the consolidation of
dispersed functions, by merging the complementary activities of the
water and sewerage bureaus, establishing a Construction Center to have
permanent and specialized staff responsible for the overall
construction activities of the GA, and merging the Trade Policy and
Industry Divisions within the Industry and Economic Bureau. Finally, a
new Environmental Unit will consolidate various functions related to
environmental protection, sanitation, landscaping, and parks
administration.
Training
8.    The city of Pusan has a Training Institute which offers general
clerical and administrative instructions for the city's employees.
Fifteen "national government employees" are assigned to the Institute.
Additional training programs in government administration, accounting
and government guidelines for budgeting, reporting, etc. are carried
out at the national level by NOHA. However, there is no established
system to provide specialized training, like that needed to operate
the TSM program, or to introduce new techniques for long-term
planning, performance monitoring and control, use of microcomputers,
etc. These problems are compounded by the excessive staff turnover
(averaging two years in the job), which results in frequent changes
of jobs within the city or in the case of "national government
employees" even between different cities.   Because of  this turnover
the permanent benefits of specialized training are limited.
Nevertheless, training programs are included under the TSM program
(Annex 3), and the PSIDP puts emphasis on additional training,
including the provision of microcomputers to the main bureaus, and
limited overseas training of higher-level staff. To provide technical
expertise in project selection, transportation analysis, etc., the
city would engage individual advisors, and has established an advisory
group of university professors and experts to assist the city in the
analysis of technically complex projects.



-27 -   _ XNNEX 2 CHAT 1
<~~~~~ i'
'i X



- 28 -
ANNEX 3 - Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Institutic-nal Arrangements for Urban Transportation
1.        With urban transport investment totaling W 120 billion per
year and representing about 70% of annual expenditures, the City of
Pusan is conscious of the need to make important institutional changes
to improve transportation planning, project evaluation and the
preparation and delivery of road and transportation projects. It
proposes to achieve this objective by centralizing all transportation
planning activities. A new Traffic Planning Division, to be created,
will be responsible for the planning and coordination of all road, bus
and subway investments. The Division will also be responsible for the
preparation and supervision of a Transport System Management (TSM)
program. This institutional change coincides with a new law which will
require all cities with populations over one million to produce an
annual transportation investment plan.
Organization of Transportation Bureau
2.        Two alternative locations for the Traffic Planning Division
have   been discussed. The first proposal has already been presented
for consideration to MOHA. This would involve the creation of a
Transportation and Tourism Bureau with three divisions: (a) a new
Traffic Planning Division described below, (b) the existing
Transportation Division responsible for transport regulation, and (c)
the existing Tourism Division.
3.        A better alternative, but one which may take longer to
implement, since the previous alternative has already been considered
for approval by the Central Government, would additionally transfer to
the Transportation Bureau the planning unit of the Road Division
(presently under the Construction Bureau). This would further simplify
and strengthen the preparation of a total transportation plan for the
city. Under this alternative, all transportation matters would come
under the responsibility of the Roads and Transportation Bureau, which
would include the following: (a) a Road Planning Division -
transferring the existing planning function from the respective
division in the Construction Bureau; (b) a Transportation Division -
to be transferred from the Tourism, Trade and Commerce Bureau; and (c)
a Traffic Planning Division- a new division described below. The
principal advantage of this proposal is that all transportation
responsibilities and expertise are consolidated in one bureau, making
it easier to develop and implement a comprehensive urban
transportation policy. Much of the work of the new Traffic Planning
Division would be concerned with developing programs and priorities
for road construction and carrying out feasibility studies for roads,
including the preparation of an annual transportation plan, as will be
required under proposed new government legislation. Under this
proposal responsibility for tourism could be transferred to the



- 29 -
ANNEX 3 - Page 2
Industry and Commerce Division or could remain in the Roads and
Transportation Bureau.
4.        The Traffic Plannin  Division. If the present proposal for
the Transportation and Tourism Bureau is approved, the Traffic
Planning Division would have three sections:
(a)  Transportation lnvestment Planning: responsible for medium-
and long-range planning and project evaluation.
(b)  Traffic and Transport Engineering, responsible for short-
range planning, design and implementation.
(c)  Public Transport Management, responsible for management and
operations.
5.       Transportation Investment Planning. This section  would have
the following responsibilities:
(a)  To prepare an annual investment program for all road, bus
and subway projects;
(b) To carry out feasibility studies or evaluate all major
(greater than W 3 billion) road and public transport
projects;
(c)  To develop traffic, transport and parking policies and draw
up strategies for their implementation;
(d)  To forecast traffic and traffic impact, and provide
analysis; and
(e)  To provide monitoring, surveys and statistics.
6.        Traffic and Transport Engineering.  The responsibilities of
this section would be as follows:
(a)  To manage all traffic facilities (traffic signals, road
signs, road markings and parking facilities);
(b)  To prepare detailed plans for TSM improvements (including
intersections, pedestrian and public transport facilities)
and safety actions along main traffic corridors and in the
central business district;
(c)  To supervise the implementation of the TSM and Traffic
Facility Improvement Programs; and
(d)  To prepare plans for bus/subway interchange terminals at
selected subway stations.



- 30 -
ANNEX 3 - Page 3
7.        Public Transport Management. The responsibilities of this
section would be as follows:
(a) To supervise and coordinate all public transport modes
(buses, taxis and subways), including bus route allocation;
(b) To evaluate the management and operation of all public
transport modes;
(c) To supervise public transport facilities (terminals, bus
lanes, etc.); and
(d) To supervise the implementation of proposals for the
improvement of public transport modes.
8.        Staffing. The staffing proposal suggested by the Bank is
basically similar to that proposed by the City, but gives stronger
emphasis on adequate engineering capacity. This includes: (a) for the
Transportation Planning Section one section chief, one transport
planner, one economist and four clerical staff; (b) for the Traffic
and Transport Engineering Section one section chief, two TSM
specialists, two draftsmen and four clerical staff; and (c) for the
Public Transport Management Section, one section chief, one public
transport specialist, and four clerical staff. It is expected that
for a period of about two to three years, the specialists in the
Traffic Planning Division would be consultants under a technical
assistance contract, who would fill key positions for which there are
no adequate local personnel (transport planner, TSN specialists,
public transport specialist and economist). These specialists should
have five to ten years experience. They would also conduct training
courses for Pusan City officials (including the Police Traffic Unit),
prepare manuals for project evaluation, impact analysis and TSM
planning, and carry out studies to implement bus/subway integration.
Terms of reference for these experts are provided in Annex 13.
9.       Training.  Several short training courses of about two weeks
duration would be o:ganized in Pusan for city officials. Topics to be
covered would include TSM, transportation planning, public transport
planning, traffic engineering and traffic safety. It is also
recommended that selected Pusan City officials be given the
opportunity for long-term overseas training and technical visits to
overseas countries where urban transportation is well advanced.



- 31 -
ANNEX 4 - Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procedures and Policies for Project Selection
Overall Planning
1.        The city's development is based on two critical documents:
its Master Plan and the Five-Year Plan. The Master Plan provides the
priorities for the city's development until the year 2000, and is
prepared and updated with the assistance of local universities. The
Five-Year Plan is prepared following MOHA and EPB guidelines, that set
the development of the city in the context of the general government
plan. The Sixth-Five Year Plan (1987-91, provides a satisfactory
blueprint for the city's development, and concentrates mainly on
physical and institutional development, but lacks adequate correlation
and integration with future financial resources. Pusan's Long-Term
Financial Plan (para. 2.07) would allow a better assessment of future
revenues and expenses, and would provide a more realistic basis for
the updating and preparation of future five-year plans.
Annual Budget Priorities
2.        The procedures and regulations for project selection are
given in guidelines issued by the Mayor. These guidelines include
specific goals and targets for each budget which are applicable to all
investments, including PCG's central bureaus and the county (Gu)
offices. The city's central bureaus are in charge of major citywide
projects which affect several Gu, while the Gu offices are in charge
of smaller projects within the Gu jurisdiction. Priority is given to
existing projects which need to be completed, and small projects,
requested by the population, which can be completed within a year.
3.        Major projects are evaluated based on feasibility studies
and economic and financial evaluation techniques, and clearly
identified in the Five-Year Plan, or for very large projects in the
Master Plan. However, Pusan lacks a mechanism to review large and
technically complex projects, to optimize their benefits and to
determine inter-sectoral priorities. This would be solved by the
proposed Investment Management Unit (para. 2.06). Most of the city's
large projects are currently carried out and contracted in annual
stages, and the budget allocation is adjusted each year in line with
budgetary constraints.
4.         Minor projects are selected by the Gu offices,  and
integrated with the city plans through the budgeting cycle (para. 5).
Following the guidelines, the Gu and bureau offices undertake field
surveys, prepare preliminary designs, estimate project scope and
costs, prepare preliminary drawings and estimate benefits. Based on
this information, a committee at the Gu level, composed mainly of
technocrats, makes a preliminary decision on which projects will be



- 32 -
ANNEX 4 - Page 2
included in the next year's budget. The general priorities at the Gu
level are (a) to meet the citizens' basic needs in terms of road
access, water supply, flood protection, and access to other services,
(b) to rehabilitate existing facilities and (c) to upgrade services.
Since many projects are not feasible because of budget limitations,
priority is given to those projects which have the largest impact on
the city. Most projects at the Gu level are small (generally less than
W 3 billion) averaging some $0.4 million.
5.       Preliminarily selected projects are sent by each Gu and city
bureau to the Budget Division of the Bureau of Planning and
Management. The Budget Division reviews all the projects with the
directors of the various bureaus and Gu offices and, if needed, calls
on specialists to review the projects further. Adjustments are made in
the budgeting of each project and in the overall allocations for each
Gu to limit expenditures within expected budget constraints. The
priority projects selected are sent to the Vice Mayor and Mayor, who
approve the projects to be implemented in the coming year.
PROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
6.        Pusan City Government (PCG) prioritizes its investments by
preparing and periodically updating its Master Plan and Five-Year
Plan. PCG plans to carry out an annual review of its investment
priorities, which would be included in its Investment Plan.
7.       Under t,te direction of the Assistant Mayor for Planning and
Management, the Regional Development Division would review all major
city investments and continuously upgrade guidelines and criteria for
proj ect selection.
8.       Investments selected for financing under the proposed Bank-
assisted project would satisfy the following conditions:
(a) The least-cost solution will be adopted for alternative
investments which achieve the same benefits;
(b) The investments should be included in PCG's annual
Investment Plan;
(c) subprojects costing less than W5 billion would be
prioritized to achieve maximum benefits for the city and, if
benefits are not quantifiable and the subprojects are in the
same sector, to achieve the lowest cost per person
benefited;
(d) subprojects estimated to cost more than W5 billion would be
reviewed by the Investment Management Unit, using economic
or financial analysis of project benefits. For subprojects
whose benefits cannot be quantified, a social and economic
justification would be made, which would consider among



- 33 -
ANNEX 4 - Page 3
other things the percentage of low incors population
benefited, the benefits to other sectors of the economy and
the priority for city development.
(e) Subprojects larger than W 8 billion would be reviewed by the
Bank.



- 34 -
PUSAN URUBN )W1ADDUNT PROJECT  -  FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PUSAN CITY  TOVUNN                    ANNEX S-Pane 1
TABLE 1  - TOTAL FISNACES GENEARL ACCOUNT (GA)                                  BILLION WON
1983    1984    1985    1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991   TOTAL   I OF
----- Actual ------                                                           1987-   87-90
1990 BUDGET
BUDGET GENERAL & SPECIAL ACCOUNT 363.542 542.724 532.878 562.031 662.897 612.354 581.003 611.232 716.343 2467.485 100.0O
BUDGET GENERAL ACCOUNT            173.217 215.770 245.373 291.046  357.162  377.045  366.435  373.252  415.301 1473.893   59.71
..,, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL REVENUES GENERAL ACCOUNT    173.217 215.770 245.373 291.046  357.162  377.045  366.435  373.252  415.301 1473.893   59.71
Total Taxes                    129.517 144.529 153.111 171.230  182.82S  195.761  209.936  225.197  247.563  813.720   33.01
Taxes on Real Estate           94.330 102.832 108.735 124.122  129.560  139.088  149.632  161.058  177.659  579.338   23.5X
Other Taxes                    35.187  41.697  44.376  47.108   53.26S   56.674   60.305   64.139   69.904  234.382    9.51
Recurrent, Non-Tax Revenues     13.617  13.804  26.537  46.S78   46.789   50.847   56.456   62.741   69.632  216.834    8.8X
Non-Recurrent Revenues          16.760  37.965  42.303  34.431   35.43'   28.920   17.161   17.515   18.189   99.027    4.01
Subsidies & Contributioms       13.154  15.659  22.226  21.715   44.962   47.710   50.626   53.721   58.417  197.020    8.01
Borrowing                        0.169   3.813   1.196  17.092   47.155   53.806   32.255   14.077   21.500  147.292    6.0X
EXPENSES GENERAL ACCOUNT           20.700 118.930 125.767 158.049  178.970  184.969  194.032  201.715  218.533  759.686   30.81
Personnel Expenses               0.000  45.768  50.700  61.094   68.630   74.862   81.659   87.424   95.913  312.575   12.7X
Other Recurrent Expenditures     0.000  19.773  19.774  26.401   26.047   27.388   28.802   30.292   32.653  112.529    4.62
Subsidies For Civic Programs     0.000  17.948  18.038 25,306   34.676   35.959   37.290   38.672   41.099  146.598    5.9X
Debt Servioe                     0.000   4.854   1.292   1,849    3.670    6.431    9.076    9.937   17.944   29.113    1.2X
Subsidies For Special Accounts  20.700  19.664  20.796  27.867   30.194   23.765   19.782   19.800   14.793   93.541    3.81
Contributions to social Program  0.000  10.923  15.147  15.532   15.753   16.565   17.423   15.589   16.131   65.331    2.61
CAPITAL EXPEND. GENERAL ACCOUNT     0.000  95.999 115.899 131.271  120.329  166.595  171.840  166.630  180.000  625.394   25.3X
CUMULATIVE CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)           13.209  15.952   1.726   59.589   85.069   85.632   90.539  107.307  320.829   13.01
TABLE 2 - TOTAL FINARXCS FOR ALL SPECIAL ACCOUNTS (&A)
BUDGET ALL SPECIAL ACCOUNTS       190.325 326.954 287.505 270.985  305.735  235.310  214.568  237.98o  301.043  993.592   40.3X
---------------------------------------------------------------__-----_------__------------------_-----_----------------------
OPERATING REVENUES SPECIAL ACCOUNT 31.967  53.323  57.620  63.280   77.963   92.681  105.953  117.691  136.789  394.288   16.0X
PubLic Enterprises              31.967  47.285  51.492  57.024   71.372   85.751   98.599  110.128  128.818  365.850   14.8X
Other Special Accounts           0.000   6.038   6.128   6.256    6.591    6.930    7.354    7.563    7.971   28.438    1.21
OPERATING EXPENSES                  0.087  32.066  38.452  48.937   54.477   58.537   61.365   64.096   69.375  238.475    9.7X
Public Enterprises               0.087  29.568  35.741  45.313   50.751   54.720   57.389   60,022   65.098  222.883    9.01
Other Special Accounts           0.000   2.498   2.711   3.624    3.726    3.816    3.977    4.u74    4.276   15.592    0.6X
NET INCOME                         31.880  21.257  19.168  14.343   23.486   34.144   44.587   53.595   67.415  155.813    6.31
DEBT SERVICE                       25.871  32.093  74.079 114.805  140.803  146.618  142.216  150.347  179.064  579.984   23.51
Public Enterprises              25.871  32.093  74.079 114.805  140.803  146.618  142.216  150.347  179.064  579.984   23.5X
Other Special Accounts           0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.01
SUBSIDIES FROM GENERAL ACCOUNT     20.700  19.563  16.366  24.867   29.950   19.765   19.782   19.800   14.793   89.297    3.61
For Public Entorprises           20.700  19.000  16.800  25.000   30.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   15.000   90.000    3.6X
For Other Special Accounts        0.000   0.563  -0.434  -0.133   -0.050   -0.235   -0.218   -0.200   -0.207   -0.703    0.01
OTHER FUNDS                        15.200  35.413  38.805  39.150   40.344   41.014   41.418   52.209   23.525  174.985    7.12
For Public Enterprises           15.200  32.091  34.555  34.811   34.913   35.415   36.007   46.640   17.671  152.974    6.2X
For Other Special Ac:ounts        0.000   3.322   4.250   4.339    5.431    5.599    5.411    5.569    5.854   22.011    0.91
BORROWING                         122.458 218.655 174.714 143.687  157.477   81.849   47.415   48.281  125.936  335.023   13.61
Public Enterprises             122.458 218.655 174.714 143.687  157.477   81.849   47.415   48.281  125.936  335.023   13.61
Other Special Accounts           0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.01
FUNDS AVAIL.FOR CAPITAL EXPEND.   171.877 258.326 177.944 118.857  116.649   31.707    9.562   $9.598   47.667  177.516    7.22
Public Enterprises             171.877 250.873 170.635 111.956  108.338   23.173    0.924   10.679   38.262  143.114    5.81
Other Special Accounts           0.000   7.453   7.309   6.901    8.311    8.534    8.638    8.919    9.404   34.402    1.41
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES               74.635 272.623 205.215 201.698  112.663   45.382   43.667   37.758   37.600  239.470    9.71
Public Enterprises              74.635 266.393 197.073 193.989  104.859   37.202   35.690   29.642   29.150  207.393    8.41
Other Special Accounts           0.000   6.230   8.142   7.709    7.804    8.180    7.977    8.116    8.450   32.077    1.31
CUMULATIVE CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)    4.00  146.64  122.40   39.25    44.19    31.28    -2.34   -20.07    -9.64   53.059
CIT-_S TOTAL---CA--H-----P--S--(OR--DE-ICIT)- 159.85------138.36 ------40.98 ----103.76------116.35-----83.29----
CITY'S TOTAL CASH SURPLUS (OR DEFICIT)      159.85  138.36   40.98   103.78   116.35    83.29    70.47    97.66



- 35 -
PUSAh. UN BANAAGMUST PROJECT  -   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PUSAN CITY GOY2RNMENT                  ANNEX 5-Page 2
TAL  3 - REIUES cF TSU  GENERAL ACCOUNT                                 BILLION WON
1983    1984    1985    1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     1991   TOTAL   X OF
- Actual ------                                                            1987^   87-9C
-------------Estimated ----------------        1990   BUDGEI
TOTAL BUDGETED REVENUS             173.217 215.770 245.373 291.046  357.162  377.045  366.435  373.252  415.301 1473.893  100.C
TOTAL TAXES                        129.517 14U.S529 153.111 171.230  182.825  195.761  209.936  225.197  247.563  813.720   554
Taxos On Real Estate Propertyt 94.330 102.832 108.735 124.122  129.560  139.088  149.632  161.058  177.659  579,338   39.
Acquisition Taxes               28.175  34.051  35.376  38.623   40.797   43.677   46.761   50.062   54.923  181.297   12.
Registratlon Tax                93.113  94.729  37.194  43.841   44.094   47.430   51.018   54.620   59,923  197.161   13.4
Property Tax                    22.000  22.435  23.674  27.354   29.002   31.050   33.555   36.602   40.914  130.209    H.1
City Planning Taxes             11.042  11.617  12.492  14.304   15.667   16.931   18.298   19.774   21.899   70.670    4.1
Other Taxes                     3S5.187  41.697  44.376  47.108   53.265   56.674   60.305   64.139   69.904  234.382   15.'
Inhabitants Tax                 14.041  16.231  18.262  18.550   20.321   21.076   21.798   22.522   23.823   85.718    5.1
Vehicles Tax                     8.065   9.251  10.282  11.501   13.044   14.558   16.247   18.051   20.551   61.900    4.:
Agency TSx                       5.406   6.088   6.603   6.283    6.017    8.421    8.845    9.291   10.001   34.575    2.:
LLoense, Tax                     3.392   3.511   2.672   3.089    3.100    3.381    3.689    4.023    4.497   14.193   1.1
Fire Fighting Tax                2.727   3.498   3.902   4.379    5.079    5.489    5.932    6.411    7.099   22.910    1.1
Slaughter Houses Tax             0.666   1.013   1.355   1.414    1.490    1.535    1.581    1.629    1.720    6.235    0.
Farm Land Tax                    0.296   0.263   0.036   0.050    0.054    0.p53    0.052    0.052    0.052    0.211    001
Transfer from Previous Year      0.594   1.842   1.265   1.842    2.160    2.160    2.160    2.160    2.160    8.640    0.e
RECURRENT, NON-TAX REVENUES         13.617  13.804  26.537  46.578   46.789   50.847   56.456   62,741   69.632  216.834   14.
Users Charges (. Fees             4.526   4.567  16.305  33.172   33.605   37.051   42.023   47.635   53.421  160.314   10.
Toll Rods (From Special Account)                          1.518    1.747    1.764    1.782    1.800    1.863    7.094    0.
Severage                                                 27.837   28.000   31.372   36.272   41.812   47.405  137.457    9.
Rlvers & Streams (farmrs)                                 0.793    0.893    0.893    0.893    0.893    0.892    3.571    0.
Rent                                                      0.485    0.360    0.367    0.375    0.382    0.399    1.484   0.
Admision Charges (muessw)                                 1.355    1.385    1.422    1.457    1.491    1.561    5.755    0.
Others User Charges                                       1.184    1.220    1.232    1.245    1.257    1.301    4.954    0.
Other PFes & Charges              7:455   8.199   8.722  11.411   11.749   12.343   12.962   13.617   14.665   50.671    3.
Users charges (medical)                                   2.552    2.200    2.222    2.244    2.267    2.346    8.933    0.
Stamps, notary                                            4.755    4.985    5.387    5.822    6.292    6.968   22.486    1.
Garbage Collection                                        4.104    4.564    4.734    4.896    5.058    5.351   19.252    1.
Interest Income                   1.636   1.038   1.510   1.510    1.075    1.086    1.097    1.108    1.146    4.365    0.
NON-RECURRENT FUKYNNES              16.760  37.965  42.303  34.431   35.431   28.920   17.161   17.515   18.189   99.027    6.
Sales of Assets                  5.617  24.704  25.018  22.403   23.841   17.000    4.900    4.900    4.900   50.641    3.
Government's PFee  for Servioes  1.182   1.256   1.261   1.446    1.300    1.339    1.380    1.421    1.501    5.440    0.
Contributiont                    0.310                    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.
Collection of Principal (loas  0.600   0.600   0.480   0.600    0.600    0.600    0.600    0.600    0.600    2.400    0.
Fees from Public Utilities                      12.815   6.272    6.280    6.406    6.535    6.666    6.969
Miscellaneous                    8.929  11.203   2.583   3.538    3.221    3.383    3.554    3.733    4.018   13.891    0.
Receivables from Previous Year  0.122   0.202   0.146   0.172    0.189    0.191    0.193    0.195    0.202    0.767    0.
GRANTS AND CONTUBUTIOIS             13.154  15.659  22.226  21.715   44.962   47.710   50.626   53.721   58.417  197.020   13.
Share of National Taxes          3.283   5.517   8.621   6.386    2.762    2.957    S.166    3.389    3.718   12.274    0.
Subsidy Social Expen.& Project  9.871  10.142  13.605  15.329   42.200   44.753   47.461   50.332   54.698  184.746   12.
BORROWINGS                           0.169   3.813   1.196  17.092   47.155   53.806   32.255   14.077   21.500  147.292   10.
Proposed IBUD Loan               0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   13.760   25.800    3.440    0.000    0.000   43.000    2.
Other Loans                      0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000   21.500    0.000    0.
Existing Lons (OECF, Bends)    0.169   3.813   1.196  17.092   10.000   28.006   28.815   14.077    0.000   80.898    5.
Main Five Taxeo- Billion Won         108.4   119.1   127.0   142.7    149.9    160.2    171.4    183.6    201.5
X Five MNan Taxes on Total Taxs       63.7X   82.42   82.92   83.3X    82.02    81.82    81.72    81.5S    81.42
Registration Tax                  25.6X   24.01   24.31   25.6X    24.1X    24.2X    24.32    24.31    24.21
Acquisition Taxes                 21.8S   23.6X   23.12   22.61    22.3X    22.3X    22.32    22.2X    22.22
Property Tax                      17.01   15.5X   15.51   16.0X    15.92    15.9X    16.0X    16.3X    16.5X
Inhabitants Tax                   10.8X   11.22   11.9X   10.82    11.1X    10.81    10.4X    10.02       9.62
City Planning Taxes                8.52    8.0X    8.22    8.42      8.6      8.61      8.72     8.8X     8.82
2 Total Taxes on Budget               74.81   67.02   62.4X   58.82    51.22    51.9X    57.32    60.3X    59.62
X Borrowing on Budget                  0.11    1.8X    0.52    5.92    13.2X    14.32       8.82     3.82     5.2X
2 Government Subsidies on sudgst       7.6X    7.32    9.12    7.51    12.6X    12.72    13.82    14.42    14.12
1 Other Rovonues on Budget            17.5X   24.0X   28.1X   27.81    23.0X    21.2X    20.1X    21.52    21.1X
I Increase Real Increase in Taxes              9.1X    3.41    9.0X      3.7X     6.0X      6.22     6.22      6.21
2 DRel Increase in Budgot                     21.81   10.92   15.62    19.1X      4.5X    -3.82      0.92      7.5X



- 36 -
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT  -  FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PUSAN CITY OOVERNMENT                ANNEX 5-Page 3
TABLE 4 - EXPENDITURES GENERAL ACCOUNT                        BILLION MON
------.---_-------------------------------------------------------__---------__----------------------------------------------._
YEARS                                 1983    1984    1985    1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991   TOTAL   I OF
----- Actual ------            --'-----------ltiated ----------------         1987-   87-90
1990   BUDGET
--_--------------------------------------------------------------__----------__------------------------------------------------
TOTAL EXENDITURES 1 INESTMENTS             214.929 241.666 289.320  299.299  351.564  365.872  368.345  398.533 1385.080   94.0X
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-------------------_----_---_--_----------------
PERSONNEL MCPENSES                          45.768  50.700  61.094   68.630   74.862   81.659   87.424   95.913  312.575   21.21
OTERI   ADMINISTRATIVE WE PNDITURPS         19.773  19.774  26.401   26.047   27.38S   28.802   30.292   32.653  112.529    7.6X
Materials & Maintenance                   7.494   6.693   9.539    9.685   10.181   10.704   11.255   12.129   41.825    2.81
Office Materlals end Supplies            4.128   3.681   4.701    4.818    5.061    5.316    5.584    6.010   20.779    1.4X
Vehicles Expen8as                        2.291   2.051   2.330    2.112    2.240    2.375    2.519    2.738    9.246    0.62
Maintenance                              0.074   0.167   0.751    0.951    1.018    1.090    1.167    1.280    4.226    0.32
Fuel                                     0.255   0,269   0.445    0.396    0.412    0.429    0.446    0.475    1.682    0.1X
Melicnes                                 0.746   0.525   1.312    1.408    1.451    1.494    1.539    1.625    5.892    0.41
Services & Utilities                      7.392   7.424   8.397    6.906    7.254    7.620    8.007    8.623   29.787    2.02
Public Utilities                         3.504   3.873   4.174    4.590    4.868    5.162    5.4'5    5.949   20.094    1.4S
Rent                                     0.541   0.530   0.869    0.924    0.952    0.981    1.010    1.067    3.867    0.3X
Taxes & Duties                           0.300   0.933   0.803    0.553    0.570    0.587    0.605    0.638    2.314    0.21
Consultant Fees                          0.717   0.775   2.081  . 0341    0.351    0.362    0.373    0.394    1.427    0.1X
Travel, Representation                   2.330   1.293   0.470    0.498    00513    0.529    0.544    0.575    2.084    0.12
Divlsion's Discretionary Expenses         4.287   5.177   7.865    8.856    9.347    9.865   10.412   11.262   38.481    2.62
Lons to coal producers                    0.600   0.480   0.600    0.600    0.606    0.612    0.618    0.640    2.436    0.22
SUBSIDIES FOR CIVIC PROGRAMS                17.948  18.058  25.306   34.676   35.959   37.290   38.672   41.099  146.598    9.92
Emploryes Retirement Fund                3.703   3.054   6.665    9.350    9.727   10.119   10.527   11.222   39.722    2.7X
Sehool Lunch                            8.721   7.845   7.472    9.033    9.306    9.587    9.876   10.426   37.802    2.61
Lawsuit Liabilities                      0.454   1.011   1.034    1.980    2.060    2.143    2.229    2.376    8.412    0.6X
Student Loans, Samaul                    0.561   0.875   3.013    3.322    3.456    3.595    3.740    3.987   14.113    1.02
Contributions to Public Organis.         0.714   0.624   0.377    1.149    1.172    1.196    1.220    1.275    4.736    0.32
Other civlc organization                 3.795   4.649   6.745    9.842   10.239   10.651   11.080   11.812   41.812    2.82
DEBT SERVICE:                                4.854   1.292   1.849    3.670    6.431    9.076    9.937   17.944   29.113    2.02
Interest                                 0.672   0.666   0.864    2.945    6.157    8.802    9.664    9.422   27.568    1.92
Amortisation                              4.182   0.626   0.986    0.725    0.273    0.273    0.273    8.521    1.545    0.12
SUBSIDIES FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNTS     20.700  19.664  20.796  27.867   30.194   23.765   19.782   19.800   14.793   93.541    6.32
Subvay                         20.700  19.000  16.800  25.000   30.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   15.000   90.000    6.1X
Water Supply                             0.101   4.430   3.000    0.244    4.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    4.244    0.32
Land Adjustment                          0.000   0.000   0.178    0.050    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.050    O.O0
Toll Roads (Transfer to G/A)             0.000  -1.100  -1.100   -1.000   -1.010   -1.020   -1.030   -1.066   -4.060   -0.3X
Medicare                                 0.463   0.566   0.689    0.800    0.673    0.702    0.730    0.759    2.907    0.22
Poor Families                            0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.400    0.02
Agrofisheries                            0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.02
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR SOCIaL PROGRAMS           10.923  15.147  15.532   15.753   16.565   17.423   15.589   15.131   65.331    4.42
Education                                9.670  12.706  13.444   13.500   14.291   15.127   13.271   13.735   56.189    3.82
Urban Redevlopment                       0.576   1.158   1.243    1.243    1.255    1.268    1.281    1.325    5.047    0.32
DLsaste= Fund                            0.410   0.472   0.553    0.600    0.606    0.612    0.618    0.640    2.436    0.22
Traffic Training Fund                    0.267   0.711   0.192    0.310    0.313    0.316    0.319    0.331    1.259    0.12
Cultural Proowtion                       0.000   0.100   0.100    0,100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.400    0.02
--------------------------------------------_---------------------__---------__------------------------------------------------
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR CAPIT.EXPENSES          96.840 119.606 132.997  178.192  192.075  172.403  171.537  196.768  714.208   48.52
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                        95.999 115.89  131.271  120.329  166.595  171.840  16t.630  180.000  625.394   42.4X
Roads, Brldges and Highways             32.156  52.799  46.064   60.050   79.009   82.410   7E.944   36.688  300.413  20.4X
Sewage & Drainage                       12.250   9.666  28.111   27.915   36.450   40.000   33.600   16.849  137.965    9.42
Industry & Eco¢nmic Support              0.000   3.209   4.927    1.450   14.582   17.159   23.500    6.923   56.691    3.82
Disaster Prevention                      1.097   2.422   1.659    4.473    2.450    2.450    2.500    1.450   11.873    0.82
Park & Seemaul Movement                  1.580   2.931   6.049    2.030    3.595    4.184    4.300    1.723   14.109    1.02
Social Welfare                           0.017  10.270  15.547    6.430   17.520   15.170   14.553    6.555   53.673    3.62
Culture & Sports                        48.899  10.995  19.080   12.342    5.577    4.095    3.363    3.099   25.377    1.72
FLrefighting & Civil Defense             0.000   1.186   1.602    1.307    3.532    2.102    1. 680    1.053    8.621    0.62
General Administration                   0.000   6.844   8.232    4.332    3.880    4.270    4.190    2.036   16.672    1.12
Other                                           15.577
---------------------------------------------------------------.__-----------__--------------------------.---------------------
YEARLY CASH SURPLUS (OR DEFICIT)             0.841   3.206   1.726   57.863   25.480    0.563    4.907   16.768   88.814    6.02
CUMULATIVE CASH SURPLUS OR DEFICIT 14.743  13.209  15.952   1.726   59.589   63.069   85.632   90.539  107.307



- 37 -
PUSAN URBAN MI4ANGENENT PROJECT  -  FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PUSAN CITY GOVERNMENT          ANNEX 5-Psge 4
TABLE 5 - OVERALL FINANCIAL PLAN FOR TRS GENERAL ACCOUNT
---------------------------------------------_--------------------__---------__----------
TOTAL    X        1987    1988    1989
---------------------------------------------_----------------------__-------__----------
TOTAL BUDGET                                 1077.25  100.01  333.77   377.04   366.44
------------_------------------------------------------------_-__------------__----------
TOTAL REVENUES                               824.13   76.5  265.05   275.53   283.55
Total Txes                                588.52   54.6X  182.83   195.76  209.94
Non-Recurrent, Non-Tax Revenues           154.09   14.3X   46.79   50.85    56.46
Non-Recurrent Revenues                     81.51    7.6X  35.43   28.92   17.16
OPERATIONL MSPENSES                           538.80   50.01  175.30  178.54   184.96
Perionnsl                                 225.15   20.91   68.63    74.86   81.66
Other Administrative Expenditures          82.24    7.61  26.05   27.39   28.80
Subaidies for Civic Progrms               107.93   10.01  34.68   35.96   37.29
Subsidies for SpecLal Accounts             73.74    6.81   30.19    23.77    19.78
Contributions to Social Programs           49.74    4.6X  15.75   16.57   17.42
GRANTS AND CON$RIBUTIONS FROM GOVERMNT        143.30   13.31  44.96   47.71   50.63
CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                       83.91    7.81  57.86   25.48    0.56
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICE             344.724          76.844  119.220  148.661
DEBT SERVICE                                   19.18    1.81    3.67     6.43     9.08
Interest                                   17.90    1.71    2.94     6.16    8.80
Amortization                                1.27    0.1X    0.73     0.27    0.27
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR CAPITAL E%ENDITURES       325.55   30.21   73.17   112.79  139.59
CAPITAL  PENDITURES                          458.76   42.62 120.33   166.60   171.84
NET TO BE FINANCED                            133.22   12.41   47.15   53.81   32.25
FINANCED BY:
BORROWING                                     109.82   10.21  23.76   53.81    32.25
Proposed IBID Loan                         43.00    4.01  13.76   25.80       3.44
Other Loans                                 0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
Existing Loans                             66.82    6.22   10.00   28.01    28.81
Debt Service Ratio                                              20.9    18.5    16.4



- 38 -
PUSAN URANU RANASDmUT PROJECT   -  FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PCOS SPECIAL ACCOSS                 ANNEX 6 - Page 1
TABILE 1 - CONSOLIDATED RESULTS FM ALL SPECIAL ACCOUNTS (FIRST PART)          BILLION WON
198S    1984    1985    1986    198?       1988    1989      1990    1991   TOTAL  X oF
------ Actual -------                                                        1987-  87-90
1990  BUDCET
----------------------------------__----------------------------__-----------__-----------____----------------------------------
TOTAL BUDGETED REVENUES           67.867 108.400  117.221  130.297  148.501  157.460  167.152  189.699  175.107  662.813  100.0
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------------------------------------------------
OPERATI?SG REVENUES               31.967  53.323   57.620   63.280   77.963   92.681  105.953  117.691  136.789  394.288   59.5
Public Enterprises              31.967  47.285   51.492   57.024   71.372   85.751   98.599  110.128  128.818  365.850   55.2
Subway                         0.000   0.000    2.736    5.314   12.369   20.2S6  23.91S   25.111   32.958   81.630   12.3
Water Supply                   31.967  38.520   40.785   43.333   49.895   55.803   64.236   73.765   83.440  243.698   36.8
Housing (Low Income)           0.000   8.765    7.971    8.377    9.108    9.713   10 448   11.253   12.421   40.522    6.1
Other Special Accounts          0.000   6.038    6.128    6.256    6.591    6.930    7.354    7.563    7.971   28.438    4.3
Land Adjustmeut                0.000   0.581    0.275    0.294    0.434    0.671    0.729    0.794    0.886    2.628    0.4
Heavy Equipment                0.000   2.226    2.599    2.873    2.959    2.989    3.019    3.049    3.156   12.015    1.8
Toll Roads                     0.000   2.909    2.909    2.709    2.817    2.872    3.191    3.287    3.470   12.167    1.8
Medicaro                       0.000   0.020    0.006    0.011    0.011    0.012    0.013    0.014    0.015    0.050    0.0
Promotion Small Industriec     0.000   0.241    0.268    0.292    0.310    0.325    0.340    0.356    0.383    1.332    0.2
Poor Families Support Fund     0.000   0.018    0.004    0.017    0.022    0.025    0.026    0.027    0.028    0.099    0.0
Saaaul Incom  Support Fund     0.000   0.000    0.003    0.003    0.003    0.003    0.003    0.003    0.003    0.013    0.0
Agro-Fishery Sousing            0.000   0.043    0.064    0.057    0.035    0.034    0.033   0.032    0.031    0.134    0.0
OPERATING EXPENSES                 0.087  32.066   38.452   48.937   54.477   58.537   61.365   64.096   69.375  238.475  36.0
Public Enterprises              0.087  29.568   35.741   45.313   50.751   54.720   57.389   60.022   65.098  222.883   33.6
Subway                         0.087   0.467    4.524   11.076   12.621   13.998   15.034   15.640   16.742   57.293    8.6
Water Supply                   0.000  22.168   24.345   26.933  50.519   32.592   33.590   34.932   37.913  131.634   19.9
Housing (Low Income)           0.000   6.933    6.872    7.304    7.610    8.130    8.765    9.450   10.443   33.956    5.1
Other Special Accounts          (.000  2.498    2.711    3.624    3.726    3.816    5.977    4.074    4.276   15.592   2.4
Land Adjustmnt                 0.000   0.128    0.105    0.186    0.175    0.188    0.198    0.208    0.225    0.769   0.1
Heavy Equipment                0.000   1.551    1.749    2.122    2.236    2.284    2.3S3    2.383    2.494    9.236    1.4
Toll Roads                     0.000   0.809    0.848    1.104    1.156    1.184    1.287    1.318    1.384    4.945    0.7
Medicare                        0.000   0.010  j 0.009    0.196    0.089    0.088    0.090    0.092    0.095    0.359    0.1
Promotion Small Industries     0.000   0.000    0.000    0.005    0.010    0.010    0.011    0.011    0.012    0.041    0.0
Poor Famlies Support Fund     0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.007    0.009    0.010    0.010    0.011    0.036    0.0
Saemaul Income Support Fund    0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.040    0.041    0.035    0.037    0.040    0.154    0.0
Aro-Fishery Housing             0.000   0.000    0.000    0.011    0.013    0.013    0.014    0.014    0.015    0.054    0.0
NET INCOME                        31.880  21.257   19.168   14.343   23.486   34.144  44.587   53.595   67.415  155.813   23.5
DEBT SERVICE                      25.871  32.093   74.079  114.805  140.803  146.618  142.216  150.347  179.064  579.984   87.5
Public Enterprises             25.871  32.093   74.079  114.805  140.803  146.618  142.216  150.347  179.064  579.984   87.5
Subway                        25.871  20.771   57.216   99.087  116.104  102.S07  113.594  117.434  141.125  449.439   67.8
Water Supply                   0.000   7.809  12.227   11.167   19.788  39.292  23.128  27.232   28.629  109.440  16.5
Housing (Low Income)           0.000   3.513   4.636    4.551    4.911   5.019   5.494    5.681    9.309  21.105   3.2
Other Special Accounts          0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000   0.0
SUBSIDIES FROM GENERAL ACCOUNT    20.700  19.664   20.796  27.867   30.194   23.765   19.782  19.800   14.793  93.541  14.1
For Public Enterprises           20.700  19.101   21.230   28.000  30.244  24.000   20.000  20.000   15.000   94.244  14.2
Subway                        20.700  19.000  16.600  25.000   30.000  20.000   20.000   20.000   15.000   90.000  13.6
Water Supply                   0.000   0.101    4.430    3.000   0.244    4.000   0.000    0.000   0.000    4.244   0.6
For Other Special Accounts        0.000   0.563   -0.434   -0.133   -0.050   -0.235   -0.218  -0.200   -0.207   -0.703  -0.1
Lend Adjustment                0.000   0.000   0.000    0.178   0.050    0.000   0.000    0.000   0.000    0.050   0.0
Tolls (transfer to G. Aecount) 0.000   0.000   -1.100   -1.100   -1.000   -1.010   -1.020   -1.030   -1.066  -4.060  -0.6
Medicare                        0.000   0.463   0.566    0.689   0.800   0.675   0.702   0.730   0.759   2.907   0.4
Poor Families Support Fund      0.000   0.100   0.100    0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100   0.400   0.1
Agro-Fishery Housing            0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000   0.0
02123187



- 39 -
PUSAN UiJAN MNANAZUNT PROJECT   -   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PCG'S SPECIAL ACCOUNTS                ANNEX 6 - Page 2
TAULE 1 - CONSOLIDATED RESULTS FOR ALL SPECIAL ACCOUNTS (CONTINUATION)          BILLION WON
1983    1984     1985     1986     1987     19S8      1989     1990     1991   TOTAL   X OF
------ Actual -------                                                          1987-   87-90
-------------Estlmated ----------------       1990   BUDGET
OTHR  SOURCE8 O  FUNDS              15.200  35.413   38.805   39.150   40.344   41.014   41.418   52.209   23.525  174.985   26.4
Public Enterprises              15.200  32.091   34.555   34.811   34.913   35.415   36.007   46.640   17.671  152.974   23.1
Subway                         t5.200  t8.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   30.000    0.000   90.000   13.6
Water Supply                    0.000   3.649    3.440    3.600    3.000    3.000    3.000    3.000    3.000   12.000    1.8
Housing (Low Income)            0.000  10.442   11.115   11.211   11.913   12.415   13.007   13.640   14.671   50.974    7.7
Other Special Accounts           0.000   3.322    4.250    4.339    5.431    5.599    5.411    5.569    5.854   22.011    3.3
Land Adjustment                 0.000   0.204    0.102    0.025    0.020    0.020    0.020    0.020    0.020    0.080    0.0
Heavy  quipment                 0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.0
Toll Roads                      0.000   0.103    0.068    0.151    0.157    0.160    0.163    0.167    0.174    0.648   0.1
Medicare                        0.000   1.922    2.341    2.857    2.948    2.982    3.011    3.042    3.148   11.982    1.8
Promotion Small Industries      0.000   0.032    0.041    0.066    0.072    0.077    0.080    0.082    0.087    0.312   0.0
Poor Families Support Jund      0.000   0.121    0.148    0.188    0.248    0.306    0.369    0.391    0.406    1.314    0.2
Sa-maul Iacoon  Support Fund    0.000   0.940    1.550    1.052    1.986    2.055    1.767    1.868    2.019    7.676    1.2
Agro-Fishery Housing            0.000   0.028    0.076    0.063    0.065    0.056    0.068    0.061    0.063    0.250    0.0
BORROWiNOS                        122.458 218.655  174.714  143.687  157.477   81.849   47.415   48.281  125.936  335.023   50.5
Public Snterprises             122.458 21S.655  174.714  14S.687  157.477   81.849   47.41S   48.281  125.936  335.023   50.5
Subway                        122.458 180.984  150.098  107.000  117.709   63.570   32.477   42.712  119.546  256.469   38.7
Water Supply                    0.000  25.466   19.940  3S.937   36.743   k4.979   11.338    1.568    1.389   64.629    9.8
Housing (LAw IncoSe)            0.000  12.205    4.676    2.750    3.025    3.300    3.600    4.000    5.000   13.925   2.1
Other Speclal Accounts           0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.0
FUNDS AVAIL.FOR CAPITAL m  8NDITUR171.877 258.326 1177.944  118.857  116.649   31.707    9.562   19.598   47.667  177.516   26.8
Publle Enterprises             171.877 250.873 , 170.635  111.956  108.338   23.173    0.924   10.679   38.262  143.114   21.6
Subway                        139.910 204.353  131.034   58.452   60.264    8.298  -30.128  -15.251    9.636   23.182   3.5
Water Supply                   31.967  37.759J 32.023   45.771   39.574    5.898   21.855   16.169   21.287   83.497   12.6
Housing (Low Income)            0.000   8.761    7.578    7.733    8.500    8.978    9.196    9.761    7.339   36.435    5.5
Other Speocil Accounts           0.000   7.453    7.309    6.901    8.311    8.534    8.638    8.919    9.404   34.402    5.2
Land AAjustment                 0.000   0.657    0.272    0.311    0.329    0.503    0.552    0.606    0.681    1.990    0.3
Heavy Equipmnt                  0.000   0.675    0.850    0.751    0.723    0.705    0.686    0.666    0.661    2.780    0.4
Toll Roads                      0.000   2.203    1.029    0.656    0.818    0.838    1,048    1.106    1.195    3.809    0.6
adicar.                        0.000   2.395    2.904    3.361    3.670    3.581    3.636    3.693    3.826   14.580    2.2
Promotion Small Industries      0.000   0.273    0.309    0.353    0.372    0.392    0.410    0.428    0.458    1.602    0.2
Poor FamilLes Support fund      0.000   0.239    0.252    0.305    0.362    0.422    0.485    0.507    0.523    1.776    0.3
Sasmaul Income Support Fund     0.000   0.940    1.553    1.055    1.949    2.017    1.735    1.834    1.982    7.535   1.1
Agro-Fishery Housing            0.000   0.071    0.140    0.109    0.087    0.077    0.087    0.079    0.078    0.330    0.0
CAPITAL ElPNDITUtRS                74.635 272.623  205.215  201.698  112.663   45.382   43.667   37.758   37.600  239.470   36.1
Publie Enterprises              74.635 266.393  197.073  193.989  104.859   37.k02  3S5.690   29.642   29.150  207.393   31.3
Subway                         48.658 207.432  155.506 .148.596   45.100    3.500    3.500    3.500    3.500   56.200    8.5
Wator Supply                   25.977  39.452   31.313   35.333   45.332   20.834   21.200   16.200   16.200  103.566   15.6
Housi1 (Low Income)             0.000  19.509   10.254   10.060   13.827   12.868   10.990    9.942    9.450   47.627    7.2
Other Special Accounts           0.000   6.230    8.142    7.709    7.804    8.180    7.977    8.116    8.450   32.077    4.8
Load Adjuatmat                  0.000   0.000    0.947    0.500    0.370    0.450    0.450    0.499    0.566    1.769    0.3
Hbevy Equipment                 0.000   0.300    0.723    0.746    0.510    0.510    0.510    0.462    0.429    1.992    0.3
Toll Roads                      0.000   2.098    1.093    1.036    0.700    0.800    0.800    0.900    1.000    3.200    0.5
Medicare                        0.000   2.161    3.080    3.350    3.450    3 550    3.600    3.513    3.513   14.113    2.1
PromotLon  mll Industries       0.000   0.314    0.334    0.361    0.346    0.353    0.360    0.367    0.384    1.427    0.2
Poor Fmilies Support Fund       0.000   0.216    0.234    0.331    0.360    0.375    0.390    0.405    0.432    1.529    0.2
Sasmsul Income Support Fund     0.000   0.940    1.553    1.055    1.949    2.017    1.735    1.834    1.982    7.535    1.1
Agro-Fishery Housing            0.000   0.201    0  78    0.330    0.119    0.125    0.132    0.136    0.144    0.512    0.1
CUMULATIVE CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)    4.00  146.64   122.40    39.25    44.19    31.28    -2.34   -20.07    -9.64    53.06    8.0
Public EnterprLses                3.34  144.31   120.46    38.43    41.91    27.88    -6.89   -25.85   -16.74    37.05    5.6
Subway                           3.34  124.80    99.00      8.86    23.42    28.22    -5.41   -24.16   -18.03    22.06    3.3
Water Supply                     0.00    6.27      7.59    18.02    12.27    -2.67    -2.01    -2.04      3.04     5.54    0.8
Housing (Low Incom)              0.00   13.24    13.88    11.55      6.22     2.33     0.54      0.36    -1.75     9.45    1.4
Other Special Accounts            0.66    2.33      1.94     0.82     2.28     3.40     4.55      5.78     7.09    16.00    2.4
Lend Adjustment                  0.00    0.92      0.25     0.06     0.02     0.07     0.17      0.28     0.40     0.55    0.1
Heavy Equpment                   0.03    0.41      0.54     0.54     0.75     0.95     1.13      1.33     1.56     4.16    0.6
?nll Roads                       0.53    0.44      0.38     0.00     0.12     0.16     0.40      0.61     0.80     1.29    0.2
Mtbicare                         0.00    0.00      0.30     0.01     0.23     0.26      0.30     0.48     0.79     1.27    0.2
Promotion Small Industries       0.00    0.03      0.01     0.00     0.03     0.06     0.11      0.18     0.25     0.38    0.1
Poor Families Suport Fund        0.00    0.01      0.04     0.01     0.01     0.06     0.16      0.26     0.35     0.49   0.1
Saeaul Income Support Fund       0.05    0.05      0.01     0.00     0.95     1.72     2.20      2.63     2.99     7.50    1.1
Agro-Yishery Hosing              0.06    0.46      0.42     0.20     0.17     0.12     0.07      0.02    -0.05     0.38    0.1



- 40 -
PUSAD URBAN MANAGEENT PROJECT   -   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS PCG' S SPECIAL ACCOUNTS                ANNEX 6 - Page 3
TABLE 2 - SUBWAY SPECIAL ACCOUNT                               Billion Won
1983    1984     1985      1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991   TOTAL   X OF
------ Actual -------                                                            1987-   87-90
-------------Estimated ----------------        1990   BUDGET
TOTAL BUDGETED REVENUES            165.868 225.S91  192.774  168.615  188.989  124.602   98.500  117.823  167.504  529.914  100.0
OPERATING REVENUE                                      2.736    5.314   12.369   20.236   23.915   25.111   32.958   81.630   15.4
Ticket Sales                                      2.516    4.688   11.780   19.272   22.776   23.915   31.388   77.743   14.7
Other (52 of Ticket Sales)                         0.220    0.626    0.589    0.964    1.139    1.196    1.569    3.887    0.7
OPERATING EXPENSES                   V.087   0.467    4.524   11.076   12.621   13.998   15.034   15,640   16.742   57.293   10.8
Personnel                                          2.928    6.898    7.482    7.871    8.268    8.479    8.975   32.100    6.1
Power                            0.087   0.467    0.108    0.144    0.256    0.324    0.369    0.386    0.413    1.335    0.3
Maintenance                                        1.240    3.327    4.112    4.984    5.537    5.872    6.382   20.505    3.9
Other Administrative Expenses                      0.248    0.707    0.772    0.819    0.860    0.903    0.972    3.354    0.6
Subway Operation                                  0.540    0.655    0.715    0.758    0.797    0.837    0.901    3.107    0.6
Other (loss in construction consigned)             0.448    0.698    0.719    0.726    0.733    0.741    0.767    2.919    0.6
OTHER REVENUES                       7.510   7.607    3.140   11.301    8.910    0.797    2.108    0.000    0.000   11.815    2.2
INTEREST EXPENSES                   25.871  20.771   21.524   45.046   61.729   69.670   68.145   64.278   58.194  263.822   49.8
Foreign Interest                25.871  20.771   36.493   48.331   50.983   49.400   46.642   42.608   37.318   32.402  0.000
Dometic Interest                                 21.524   11.715   15.746   20.270   21.504   21.670   20.876   18.688  0.741
Less Interest Capitalized                        -36.493  -15.000   -5.000
NET INCOME                         -18.448 -13.631  -20.172  -39.507  -53.071  -62.635  -57.157  -54.807  -41.978 -227.670  -43.0
LOAN AMORTIZATION                                     35.692   54.041   54.375   32.637   45.449   53.156   82.932  185.617   35.0
Foreign Principal                                  0.692    3.280   42.893   16.389   28.529   35.500   48.734   26.854  0.000
Domestic Principal                                35.000   50.761   11.482   16.248   16.920   17.657   34.198   36.987  0.000
NET INTERNAL CASB GENERATION       -18.448 -13.631  -55.864  -93.548 -107.446  -95.272 -102.605 -107.964 -124.910 -413.287  -78.0
SUBSIDY FROM PUSAM CITY             20.700  19.000   16.800   25.000   30.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   15.000   90.000   17.0
GOVERNMENT GRANTS                   15.200  18.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   20.000   30.000               90.000   17 0
BORROWINGS                         122.458 180.984  150.098  107.000  117.709   63.570   32.477   42.712  119.546  256.469   48.4
Foreign Loans                  105.729 164.632  108.631   63.000   30.935   11.519   28.674   28.680   86.014    0.014    0.0
Local Loans                     16.729  16.352   41.467   44.000   86.774   52.051    3.804   14.032   33.533    2.179    0.4
FUNDS AVAIL.FOR CAPITAL EXPENDITUR139.910 204.353  131.034 . 58.452   60.264    8.298  -30.128  -15.251    9.636   23.182    4.4
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                48.658 207.432  155.506  148.396   45.700    3.500    3.500    3.500    3.500   56.200   10.6
Construction Subway Line 1      47.861 207.432  111.359  130.128   37.200                                          37.200    7.0
Automotives, Machineries & Equ  0.797            28.711    0.468    0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500    2.000    0.4
Interest Capitalized             0.000   0.000   36.493   15.000    5.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    5.000    0.9
Working Capital Heads                           -30.308    3.000    °.000    3.000    3.000    3.000    3.000   12.000    2.3
Exchange Losses Capitalized                       9.251                                                             0.000    0.0
CASH SURPLUS (4) OR DEFICIT (-)             -3.079  -15.221  -90.144   14.564    4.798  -33.628  -18.751    6.136  -33.018   -6.2
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS OR DEFICIT        3.340 124.801   99.000    8.856   23.419   28,217   -5.411  -24.162  -18.026                0.0
Monitoring IndLcators:
Ridership 1000 Tripsiday                                89.4     79.3    161.4    220.0    260.0    273.0    286.7
Ridership to cover Operation & Interest-1000/day       426.9    837.3   1018.5    955.1    949.5    912.3    684.3
Ridership Forecasted Feasibility Study-lOOOtday         89.0    130.0    229.0    429.0    542.0    569.1    597.6
X Actual vs Forecasted Ridership                         1002      61X      70X      51X       482      48X       482
Ridership Million TripslYar                             16.4     28.9    58.90    80.30    94.90    99.65   104.63
Operating Expenses per Ride                              276      383      214       174      158      157       160
Fare (Won per trLi)                                      167      184      200       240      240      240       300
Fare Increase to cover Operation                                  108S       7X      -272     -342     -35X      -472
Employees for Operation                                 1036     1140     1200      1250     1300     1320      1350
Employees for Construction                               131      128       50        50       50       50        50
Employees per 1000 Riderships                           11.6     14.4      7.4       5.7      5.0      4.8       4.7
Cash Surplus (Deficit) on Revenues                      -5562   -16962     118X       242    -1412     -75X       19X
02/23187



- 41 -
PUSAII URBA  MANAGENENT PROJECT   -  FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS POG#S SPECIAL ACCOUNTS               ANNEX 6 - Page 4
TABLE 3 - WATER SUPPLY SPECIAL ACCOUNT                                 Billion Won
1983    1984     1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991   TOTAL   I OF
------ Actual -------                                                          1987-   87-90
-------------East mted ----------------        1990   BUDGET
--_-----------____-_--_---___-___--_-_-__--__-----------_--------__----------__----------_--------------------------------------
TOTAL BUDGETED REVNUES             31.967  42.270   48.655   49.933   53.139   62.803   67.236   76.765   86.440  259.942  100.0
OPERATIONAL REVENUES                31.967  38.520   40.785   43.333   49.895   55.803   64.236   73.765   83.440  243.698   93.8
Water Revenues                 31.967  36.994   39.620   41.712   47.952   53.727   62.119   71.607   81.185  235.407   90.6
Other Revenues                  0.000   1.526    1.165    1.621    1.943    2.075    2.116    2.158    2.254    8.292   3.2
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES                0.000  22.168   24.345   26.933   30.519   32.592   33.590   34.932   37.913  131.634   50.6
Personnel                       0.000   5,192    5.790    7.063    7.488    7.752    8.014    8.279    8.764   31.533   12.1
Power                           0.000  12.620   12.648   13.600   16.077   17.489   17.998   18.793   20.686   70.357   27.1
Chemicals, Materials            0.000   1.569    1.845    1.900    2.246    2.443    2.514    2.625    2.890    9.829   3.8
R-v Water Purchase              0.000   0.314    0.650    0.670    0.792    0.862    0.887    0.926    1.019    3.466   1.3
MHintentace                     0.000   0.903    1.873    2.000    2.120    2.195    2.269    2.344    2.482    8.929    3.4
Administrative Cost             0.000   1.570    1.539    1.700    1.795    1.852    1.908    1.965    2.073    7.520   2.9
------------------------------------------__--------------__----------------------------------
NET INCOME (Beforo Deprec.4 Intere 31.967  16.352   16.440   16.400   19.376   23.210   30.645   38.833   45.526  112.064   43.1
DEBT SERVICE                                 7.809   12.227   11.167   19.788   39.292   23.128   27.232   28.629  109.440   42.1
Interest                                 4.956    4.248    7.517   13.550   13.514   13.594   13.407   10.361
ARortization                             2.853    7.979    3.650    6.238   25.778    9.534   13.825   18.268
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__------_--------
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION       31.967   8.543    4.213    5.233   -0.413  -16.082    7.517   11.601   16.897    2.624    1.0
SUBSIDY FROM PUSAN CITY                      0.101    4.430    3.000    0.244    4.000
OTHER FUNDS (Non-Operational Revenues)       3.649    3.440    3.600    3.000    3.000    3.000    3.000    3.000   12.000   4.6
BORROWING:                          0.000  25.466   19.940   33.937   36.743   14.979   11.338    1.568    1.389   64.629  24.9
Compulsory Water Bonds                   5.964   13.784    7.210    6.613    5.979    6.338    1.568    1.389   20.498    7.9
Market Bonds                            14.000             4.000    8.000    4.000    0.000    0.000    0.000   12.000    4.6
Government Loans                         3.400    4.000    9.740   10.000    5.000    5.000    0.000    0.000   20.000    7.7
0CFC                                     2.102    2.139   12.981   12.130    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000   12.130    4.7
Othet                                    0.000    0.017    0.006                                                  0.000   0.0
FUNDS AVAIL.FOR CAPITAL EXPENDITUR 31.967  37.759   32.023   45.771   39.574    5.898   21.855   16.169   21.287   83.497   32.1
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES               25.977  39.452   31.313   35.333   45.332   20.834   21.200   16.200   16.200  103.566   39.8
Water Treatment Plents                  26.293   33.992   33.210   28.550    9.634   10.000                      48.184   18.5
Improvement Water Facilities                                       15.582   10.000   10.000   15.000   15.000   50.582   19.5
Equipment & Other Assets                 1.731    2.567    1.623    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.800   0.3
Working Capital Needs                   11.428   -5.246    0.500    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000    4.000    1.5
CASH SURPLUS (OR DEFICIT)           5.990  -1.693    0.710   10.438   -5.758  -14.936    0.655   -0.031    5.087  -20.069   -7.7
CUMULATIVE CASE SURPLUS OR DEFICIT           6.270    7.587   18.025   12.267   -2.669   -2.014   -2.044    3.042
NET INCOME INCLUDING DEPRECIATION           8.228    5.301   -0.637   -5.189   -2.281    4.474   12.317   21.600
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------------------------------------------------
Monitoring Indicators:
Popul,vith Water Supply (1000)       3084    3218      3271     3360     3501     3626     3748      3870     3996
* of Water Connections            216.753 229.411  238.652  246.900  258.024  268.012  277.870  287.783  298.038
X Population with Water Supply       90.8X   92.1X    93.01    93.5X    94.42    95.21    96.1%    97.02    98.02
Water Sold (liters/capita/day)        167      170      176      180      187      195      202       208      215
Water Sold-Million Tons per year   188.33  200.24   209.90   220.98   239.45   257.90   275.92   294.31   313.00
X Unaccounted-for Water              40.01   37.72    38.5S    36.42    40.02    40.02    37.02    35.02    35.OX
Water Produced-Million Tons/Year   313.87  321.44   341.12   347.72   399.09   429.83   437.96   452.78   481.54
X Tariff Increase In Current Prices           8.82      2.21     0.02     6.12     4.0X     8.12     8.1X      6.62
Average Tariff W/ton                169.7   184.7    188.8    188.8    200.3   208.3    225.1    243.3    259.4
Total Number of Staff                1292    1330      1360     1509     1543     1573     1602      1630     1659
# Staff per 1000 Connections          6.0      5.8      5.7      6.1      6.0      5.9      5.8       5.7      5.6
Production Capacity- Mill.Tons/Day  0.945   0.945    0.945    1.500    1.500    1.300    2.000    2.000    2.000
Peak Daily Production-15% above *v  0.989   1.013    1.075    1.096    1.257    1.354    1.380    1.427    1.517
Rate of Return on Net Fix d Assets            10.92     4.9X     2.52     2.72     3.32     5.3X      7.42     9.12
2 Self-Financing of Inveatments     123.12   21.72    13.5X    14.82    -0.92   -77.22    35.52    71.62   104.3X
02123/87



- 42 -
PUSVA  URUM MAUMUNT PROJECT   -  FINAJCIAL PROJRCTIORS PO  6 SPLCIAL ACCOUNTS                   ANNEX 6 - Page 5
TABLE 4 - MUNICIPAL 8OUSING CONSTRUCTION
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__--------_--_------_-__---_----_-------------_----
1983    1984     1985     1986     1987     19"8    1989       1990     1991   TOTAL   2 0O
------ Actual -------                                                          1987-   87-90
1990 BUDGET
TOTAL DUDGrZTD REVOSUB              0.000  19.207   19.086   1938U   21.021   22.128   23.455   24.892   27.092   91.496  100.0
OPERATIONAL UYNENUES                0.000   8.765    7.971    8.377    9.108    9.713   10.448   11.253   12.421   40.522   44.3
S&Ls. of Nausac                 0.000   5.458    7.141    7.512    8.202    8.781    9.489   10.255   11.357   36.726   40.1
Sales of land                   0.000   3.118    0.482    0.453    0.467    0.471    0.476    0.490    0.518    1.904   2.1
Housina Management F1..         0.000   0.010    0.052    0.084    0.095    0.106    0.117    0.131    0.149    0.449    0.5
Rants                           0.000   0.179    0.296    0.328    0.345    0.355    0.366    0.377    0.398    1.442   1.6
OPERATIOBAL EXPZNSES                0.000   6.933    6.872    7.304    7.610    8.130    8.765    9.450   10.443   33.956   37.1
Cost of Sale-Housing            0.000   4.981    6.200    6.522    6.971    7.464    8.066    8.717    9.653   31.218   34.1
Cost of LanW                    0.000   1.376    0.131    0.123    0.128    0.131    0.134    0.137    0.143    0.530   0.6
Management of Rental            0.000   0.024    0.050    0.086    0.090    0.093    0.096    0.099    0.104    0.378    0.4
Genoral & Admistrati'' Expons~ 0.000   0.552    0.491    0.573    0.420    0.443    0.469    0.498    0.542    1.830   2.0
NET INCOHB                          0.000   1.832    1.099    1.073    1.498    1.582    1.684    1.802    1.978    6.566    7.2
DEBT SERVICE RSPAINEU?              0.000   3.513    4.636    4.551    4.911    5.019    5.494    5.681    9.309   21.105  23.1
Interest                                   2.159    2.849    3.065    3.366   '3.444    3.959    4.135    4.070
Loans Before 1986                        2.159    2.849    2.982    3.105    2.978    3.258    3.284    3.275
bonds Aftor 1985                                           0.083    0.261    0.466    0.701    0.851    0.795    0.611
Principal                                  1.411    1.796    1.486    1.54S    1.575    1.535    1.546    5.239
Loans befor  1986                                          1.498    1.545    1.575    1.535    1.546    1.556
Boads After 1985                                           0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    3.683    4.052
OTHER SOURCES Of VUMDS              0.000  10.442   11.115   11.211   11.913   12.415   13.007   13.640   14.671   50.974   55.7
Cost of Sales                   0.000   6.357    6.331    6.645    7.100    7.595    8.200    8.854    9.797   31.748   34.7
Non-Operating Revenues          0.000   3.516    4.123    4.290    4.463    4.553    4.644    4.737    4.952   18.397   20,1
Amortization Deferred Sales             -0.936   -1.178   -1.277   -1.394   -1.493   -1.613   -1.743   -1.931   -6.244   -6.8
Collection of ousing Loans               1.400    1.657    1.500    1.545    1.560    1.576    1.592    1.648    6.273    6.9
Subsidy                                           0.053    0.053
TSwsfers from other A/C                  0.105    0.129             0.200    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.205    0.800    0.9
BORROWIUG                            0.000  12.205    4.676    2.750    3.025    3.300    3.600    4.000    5.000   13.925   15.2
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR CAP.BXPENSES    0.000   8.761    7.578    7.733    8.500    8.978    9.196    9.761    7.339   36.435   39.8
CAPITAL BXPENDITURES                0.000  19.509   10.254   10.060   13.827   12.868   10.990    9.942    9.450   47.627   52.1
Housing Construction                     4.476    6.454 . 6.912    7.603    8.300    8.300    8.300    8.300   32.503   35.5
Rental Housing                           3.672    3.713                                                           0.000   0.0
Housing Loans                            4.310    4.073    0.506    0.150    0.168    0.180    0.132    0.150    0.630   0.7
Housing Site Development                                   0.642    4.849    4.200    2.310    1.310    0.800   12.669   13.8
Land Purchase                                                       1.025                                         1.025    1.1
Working Capital Neds (+)                 7.051   -3.986    2.000    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.800    0.9
-------------------------------------------------------------------__------_-__----------------------------------_--------------
CAS8 SURPLUS (+) OR DEFICIT (-)     0.000 -10.748   -2.676   -2.327   -5.327   -3.890   -1.794   -0.181   -2.111  -11.192  -12.2
ACCUMUL&TED CASE  SURPLUS OR DEFICIT        13.241   13.876   11.550    6.223    2.333    0.539    0.358   -1.753
sousing Units Constructod         690      800      522      500      550      600       650      650      650



- 43 -
PUSAN UR4 8MANADEMET PROJECT   -   FIZANCIAL PRDJECTIONS POG S SPECIAL ACCOUNTS                          ANNEX 6 - Page 6
TABLE 5 - HEAVY EQUIPMNT SPECIAL ACCOUNT
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________,_______
1983    1984       1983      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991   TOTAL   X OF
------ Actual -------                                                                  1987-   87-90
Judget             -------------Estimated ----------------            1990   BUDGET
TOTAL_____UD___ETE____RE__E__UES_____0__0___.__________9____2.__7___2.9__9_____989____.019_____.______3.____6_____.015_____35.6_
TOPAL BUDOEL  REVENUES                  0.000   2.226    2.599    2.873    2.959    2.989    3.019    3.049    3.156   12.015  435.6
------------------------------------------_---------------------__-----------__----------.---------------------------------_----
OPERATIONAL REVN DUZ                    0.000   2.226    2.599    2.873    2.959    2.989    3.019    3.049    3.156   12.015  435.6
Rental Fees for Equipment           0.000   1.920    2.295    2.299    2.368    2.392    2.416    2.440    2.525    9.615  348.6
Others & Previous Year Inco         0.000   t,306    0.304    0.574    0.591    0.597    0.603    0.609    0.630    2.401   87.0
OPERATIONAL WENSEs                      0.000   1.551    1.749    2.122    2.236    2.284    2.333    2.383    2.494    9.236  334.8
Personnel                           0.000   0.531    0.601    0.685    0.716    0.734    0.753    0.772    0.811    2.974  107.8
Other Operatina  Expenses           0.000   1.020    1.148    1.404    1.461    1.490    1.520    1.550    1.621    6.021  218.3
Contingenies (2X)                                                0.033    0.059    0.060    0.060    0.061    0.063    0.240    8.7
--------------_----------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------
NET INC4OE                              0.000   0.675    0.850    0.751    0.723    0.705    0.686    0.666    0.661    2.780  100.8
DEBT SERVICE REPAYMENT                  0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.0
OTHER SOURCES OP UNDS                   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.0
--------------------------------------------------------.----------__--------__-___------ ----
FUNDS AVAIL.FOR CAPITAL EXDPEITUR  0.000   0.675    0.850    0.751    0.723    0.705    0.686    0.666    0.661    2.780  100.8
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE8                    0.000   0.300    0.723    0.746    0.510    0.510    0.510    0.462    0.429    1.992   72.2
Purchase of Equipment               0.000   0.300    0.555    0.646    0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500    2.000   72.5
Other                               0.000   0.000    0.168    0.100    0.010    0.010    0.010                               0.030    1.1
_______________________________.________________________________________________________________________________________________
CASN SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                  0.000   0.375    0.127    0.005    0.213    0.195    0.176    0.204    0.233    0.788   28.6
CUMULATIVE CASE SURPLUS (DEFICIT)   0.034   0.409    0.536    0.541    0.754    0.949    1.125    1.329    1.562
02123187
TOLL                                 TABLE 6 - TOLL ROADS SPECIAL ACCOUNT
------------__------------------__----------------------------_---___________________________________________________________,_-
1983    19B4       1985      1986      1987      19B8      1989      1990      1991   TOTAL   X 07
------ Actual -------                                                                  1987-   87-90
-------------Estimated ----------------            1990   8UDG2T
--------------------------_------------------------------------__------------__--------_----------------------------------------
TOTAL BUDGETED REVENUES                 0.000   3.012    2.977    2.860    2.974    3.032    3.354    3.454    3.645   12.814  464.6
OPERATIONAL RESVEIIES (Toll Charges  0.000   2.909    2.909 *  2.709    2.817    2.872    3.191    3.287    3.470   12.167  441.1
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES                    0.000   0.809    0.848    1.104    1.156    1.184    1.287    1.318    1.384    4.945  179.3
Personnal                           0.000   0.409    0.512    0.626    0.651    0.664    0.738    0.753    0.787    2.806  101.7
Pouer                               0.000   0.386    0.247    0.264    0.277    0.286    0.303    0.312    0.330    1.178   42.7
Other Operating Erpenses            0.000   0.014    0.089    0.160    0.168    0.173    0.178    0.184    0.194    0.703   25.5
Contingencies (22)                  0.000   0.000    0.000    0.054    0.059    0.061    0.067    0.069    0.073    0.256    9.3
---__-__--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET IRCOME                              0.000   2.100    2.061    1.603    1.660    1.688    1.904    1.969    2.087    7.222  261.8
DEST SERVICE                            0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
TRANSPER TO GENERAL ACCOUNT             0.000   0.000    1.100    1.100    1.000    1.010    1.020    1.030    1.066    4.060  147.2
OTSER SOURCES OP FUNDS                  0.000   0.103    0.068    0.151    0.157    0.160    0.163    0.167    0.174    0.648   23.5
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__---------------
YUNDS AVAIL.FOR CAPITAL EPNDITUR  0.000   2.203    1.029    0.656    0.818    0.838    1.048    1.106    1.195    3.809  138.1
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                    0.000   2.098    1.093    1.036    0.700    0.800    0.800    0.900    1.000    3.200  116.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----------------------------------------_--------
CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                  0.000   0.105   -0.064   -0.380    0.118    0.038    0.248    0.206    0.195    0.609   22.1
ClUMUATIVE CASE SURPLUS (DEFICIT)   0.525   0.444    0.380    0.000    0.118    0.156    0.404    0.609    0.804
02123187



ANNEX 7 - Page I
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Draft Bylaws, Enforcement Bylaws and Management Regulations Being
Considered for a Pusan Fund Management Special Account
A. Bylaws of the Pusan Fund Management Special Account
Article 1 - Objectives. The purpose of this bylaw is to establish the
Pusan Fund Management Special Account (PFMSA) as a Special Account.
The objectives of the PFMSA are to enhance the sound and efficient
management and operation of the Special Accounts and Municipal
Corporations operated by Pusan City Government (PCG) and to increase
the degree of cost recovery achieved by the Special Accounts and
Municipal Corporations.
Article 2 - Definitions of Terms.
(1) "Transfers from General Account" (TGA) refers to
contributions to the PFMSA from the Pusan City Government
(PCG) General Account, to support the activities of the
Special Accounts. TGA also includes equity contributions
from the General Account to PCG's Municipal Corporations
(Special Accounts).
(2) "Borrowed Funds" are funds borrowed by PCG from foreign
governments, international financial institut-ions,
commercial banks or other local financial sources.
(3) "Temporary Surplus Funds" are funds in excess of the current
needs of a Special Account, which may be borrowed and paid
back by the PFMSA within the same fiscal year.
(4) "Surplus Funds" refers to the balance of funds carried
forward by the PFMSA at the end of a fiscal year.
(5) "PFMSA Loan' refers to the lending of money by the PFMSA to
a Special Account or Municipal Corporation to finance
capital investments.
(6) "Redemption" means the repayment of loans to the PFMSA by
Municipal Corporations.
Article 3 - Establishment and Operation of PPMSA's Board of Directors.
(1) A Board of Directors shall be established to govern the
operations of the PFMSA and to insure the efficient and
effective use of the PFMSA.



ANNEX 7 - Page 2
(2)  The Board of Directors shall determine all policies of
PFMSA, including its regulations, the use and mobilization
of funds, the scope of beneficiaries and projects, the
interest rates and loan conditions, and all important
procedures regarding the management and operation of the
PFMSA.
(3) The composition of the Board of Directors and its principles
of operation shall be stated in the Enforcement Bylaws.
Article 4 - Management and Operation of the PFMSA. The PFMSA will be
managed and operated by the Director of PCG's Budget Bureau.
Article 5 - Use of the Funds of the PFMSA.
(1)  The PFMSA is to be used to assist PCG's Special Accounts and
Municipal Corporations to finance capital projects that
support cost recovery objectives. The Special Accounts which
may be supported by the PFMSA shall be set forth in the
Enforcement Bylaws (see part B, below).
(2)  PFMSA loans may be made only for the specific projects and
purposes defined in the Enforcement Bylaws.
(3) The funds provided by PFMSA will finance capital
expenditures for projects as stat;ed in the Enforcement
Bylaws.
Article 6 - Sources and Applications of Funds.
(1) The sources of funds of the PFMSA will consist of funds
provided by PCG (including TGA, funds redeemed by repayments
from Special Accounts, Temporary Surplus Funds, etc., and
funds borrowed from public, commercial or international
organizations. Surplus funds may be carried over from one
fiscal year to the next, but Temporary Surplus Funds should
be paid back to the concerned Special Accounts before the
end of each fiscal year.
(2) Unless the Board specifically approves, borrowed funds may
not exceed 50% of PFMSA's budget for any fiscal year.
(3) The funds of the PFMSA can only be used to finance loans to
Special Accounts or Corporations, and the repayment of funds
borrowed by PFMSA.
Article 7 - Separate Accounting for PFMSA Loans. The Special Accounts
or Municipal Corporations which receive loans from PFMSA must keep
separate accounts for each loan.
Article 8 - Management of Loans. The Director of PCG's Budget Bureau
shall be responsible to the Board of Directors for supervising the use
of PFMSA loans in order to ensure their efficient and effective use.



- 46 -
ANNEX 7 - Page 3
Article 9 - Contingencies. In the event of a contingency, such as the
need for additional funds t; complete a capital project being financed
by a PFMSA loan, the Board shall have the power to authorize an
increase in the amount of the loan, provided that the loan as
increased still meets all requirements of the Enforcement Bylaws.
B. Enforcement Bylaws for the PFMSA
Article 1 - Purpose. This Enforcement Bylaw sets forth the details for
enforcement of the Bylaws of the Pusan Fund Management Special Account
(PFMSA).
Article 2 - Coverage.
(1) Loans from the PFMSA may assist the following Special
Accounts and/or Municipal Corporations: Water Works,
Housing, Sewerage, Subway, and other Special Accounts or
Municipal Corporations which are found acceptable and
appropriate by PFMSA's Board of Directors.
(2) A Special Account will cease to be eligible for
participation in the PFMSA if it is abolished or cancelled
by PCG.
Article 3 - Nature of the Prolects to be Financed by PFMSA. The PFMSA
may finance capital expenditures for the following types of projects:
(1) Project investment which cannot be financed from existing
revenues without excessive increases in charges and fees to
users.
(2) Projects which cannot be financed by commercial loans
because the period required for repayment is longer than
feasible under commercial loans.
(3) Projects which would enhance the productivity and cost
recovery of PCG's Special Accounts.
(4) Projects which are too large to be financed out of the
current revenues of a Special Account.
(5)  Projects which benefit specific users or parts of the total
population and where it would be inappropriate to charge the
cost to the total population.
(6) Other projects that meet the objectives and principles set
by the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions
of this Bylaw.



- 47 -                 ANNEX 7 -Page 4
Article 4 - Limitation of the PFMSA Loans.
(1) Unless the Board specifically aproves, the PFMSA will not
finance more than half of the annual budget of any Special
Account or municipal corporation.
(2) The amount of any PFMSA loan shall not exceed 70% of the
total investment cost of the project financed by the loan.
(3) No more than 50% of the loans budgeted by the PFMSA for a
given year may be allocated to a single Special Account or
Municipal Corporation.
Article 5 - Scope of PFMSA Funding.
(1) The use of PFMSA Funds (as mentioned in Article 5, clause 3
of the Bylaws) would not finance operational expenditures,
and would be used to finance the capital requirements, in
particular new priority investments.
Article 6 - Organization and Operation of PFMSA Board of Directors,
(1) The Board of Directors of PFMSA shall be made up as follows:
Chairman: the Vice Mayor.
Vice Chairman: the Assistant Mayor for Planning and Management.
Other Members: the Director-General for Finance, the Director-
General for Construction, the Director of Budget,
and the Director of Planning.
(2)  The operations of the Board shall be set forth in the
Management Regulations (see part C, below).
Article 7 - Applications for PFMSA Loans.
(1) Projects for which any Special Account requests PFMSA
support shall be presented to PCG's Budget Bureau, including
the information required for their analysis.
(2) A Project Assessment Report would be prepared by PCG's
Investment Management Unit. The Loan Application prepared by
the Special Account requesting the loan and the Project
Assessment Report would be presented by PCG's Budget
Director to the Board for consideration of the proposed
loan.
(3) After the Board approval, the official responsible for the
Special Account would present a revised financial plan in
accordance with the loan approved by the Board.
(4)  Each Special Account or Municipal Corpor.tion being financed
by the PFMSA would present to the Board quarterly reports



- 48 -                    ANNEX 7 - Page 5
regarding the use of the loan and the progress in project
implementation.
Article 8 - Management  Regulations. The Management Regulations (see
part C, below) shall set forth additional details of the operation of
the PFMSA.
C.   Management Regulations for the PFMSA
Chapter 1 - General.
Article 1 - Obiectives. These regulations provide details on the
Enforcement Bylaws of the PFMSA.
Chapter 2 - Operation of the Board.
Article 2 - Chairman.  The Chairman shall represent the Board and be
responsible for the overall operation of the PFMSA.
Article 3 - Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman shall represent the Board
in the event that the Chairman is absent.
Article 4 - Meetings.
(1)  Meetings of the PFMSA shall be called and presided over by
the Chairman.
(2)  A quorum for an official meeting of the Board shall be two
thirds of its members. In order to be approved, actions of
the Board shall require agreement by at least one-half of
the members present at an official meeting.
(3)  The Chiq4rman shall vote only in the event of a tie vote of
the other members present at an official meeting of the
Board.
(4)  All official actions by the Board at its meetings shall be
documented and recorded in the Minutes of the meetings.
Article 5 - Management of Board Operations.
(1)  The Director of PCG's Budget Bureau is designated as the
Manager of the Board.
(2)  The Manager shall assist the Chairman in the Board
activities and will keep the records of meetings.



- 49 -
ANNEX 7 - Page 6
Chapter 3 - PFMSA Loans.
Article 6 - Interest Rate.
(1)  The interest rate of PFNSA's loans shall be determined as
the average weighted cost of amounts provided by PCG and the
amounts borrowed by the PFMSA.
(2) The risk in foreign exchange will be included in the
estimated cost of loans from foreign sources.
Article 7 - Repayment of Loans.
(1) The interest due on any loan would be paid semiannually on
June 30 and December 31 of each year.
(2)  The repayment of the principal  shall begin upon t'le
completion of the project construction or the grace period
set by the Board. The loan repayment period shall not exceed
15 years, including the grace period.
(3) Within the above limits the Board shall establish the actual
grace and repayment periods of each loan.
(4) The principal due in any year will be paid in two equal
installments on June 30 and December 31 of that year.
(5) The loan from the PFMSA would be disbursed against
certificates of payments made or to be made by the Special
Accounts or Municipal Corporations in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the applicable
regulations.
Article 8 - Prepayments and Penalties for Late Payments.
(1) A Special Account or Municipal Corporation may prepay the
total or any part of the interest and principal of a loan in
advance of the schedule established by the Board, subject to
the approval of the Chairman of the Board.
(2) Any Special Account or Municipal Corporation which fails to
make timely payment of the interest or principal due on a
loan shall be charged penalty charges at the interest rate
charged by commercial banks.



- 50-                     ANNEX 7 - Page 7
Chapter 4 - Reports and Audit.
Article 9 - Reporting. The Chairman of the Board may require from the
Special Accounts financed by the PFMSA, periodic and annual reports
regarding the projects and loans being financed.
Article 10 - Audit. The Chairman of the Board shall appoint official
auditors to audit the overall financial status of the amounts borrowed
from PFMSA by any Special Account or Municipal Corporation.
Article 11 - Neglect of Duties. The Chairman of the Board will take
appropriate action if the officials responsible for loans from PFMSA
neglect their duties under the Bylaw, Enforcement Bylaw or Management
Regulations.



- 51 -
ANNEX 8 - Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Inflation
1.      The financial projections assume that local and foreign price
increases would be 3% in 1987, 1% between 1988 and 1990, and 3.5%
thereafter. The exchange rate for January 1987 is assumed at W 860 per
US dollar.
PCG's Investment and Long-Term Financial Plan (LTFP)
2.      PCG's Investment Plan (Annex 10) and the LTFP were developed
by the appraisal team using computer programs tailored to PCG's
organization, revenues and expenditures. Annex 5 shows the financial
forecast for all revenues and expenses of the General Account (Tables
1 to 5), as well as monitoring indicators for the GA and the SAs
(Tables 6 and 7). Annex 6 shows a summary for all the SAs, and thie
financial forecast for the main SAs (Tables 1 to 6). The complete
financial projections, available in the Project File, include some 40
pages of tables, providing full details of the assumptions used and
the projections for the GA and each SA. Particularly important are
the debt calculation tables, since several SAs, particularly the
Subway and Water Supply SAs, have a large number of loans, many in
foreign currencies. To simplify the explaration, the main assumptions
used for the financial projections are shown in Table 1.
Revenues and Expenses of the General Account
3.         PCG uses government-mandated cash accounting which is
satisfactory. Detailed statistics and annual publications facilitate
a comparison of previous and present performance. The main revenues
are taxes based on property transactions (acquisition, registration).
Tax rates are set nationally by MOHA. Tax collection is very good,
averaging 92% and reaching 97% for taxes other than on vehicles. Lack
of industrial and commercial space has inhibited the city's
development and reduced tax increases which previously exceeded 11%
p.a. in real terms. Government contributions, mainly through shared
taxes and contributions to special projects, averaged about 7% of the
budget. Personnel expenses represent 20% of the total budget and 70%
of recurrent expenditures. About 230 of the total staff of 13,000 are
central government employees. The number of employees is expected to
continue to be 3.6 per thousand inhabitants, and unit salaries are
expected to increase at about 3% p.a. in real terms. Subsidies to the
Subway SA are estimated at about W 20 billion per year, and will have
to continue at least until 1990. However, the establishment of the
PFMSA will provide an opportunity to convert some of these subsidies
to long-term 'Loans. Capital expenditures are based on the Investment
Plan (Annex 10).



- 52 -
ANNEX 8 - Page 2
Revenues and Expenses of the Special Accounts
4.        Financial projections for the SAs, and details of the
assumptions for projections of each account are available in the
Project File. The SAs prepare annual financial statements based on
accrual accounting; for consistency these results have been presented
on a cash basis. The main assumptions are for the Subway SA and
include the continuation of government and PCG contributions of about
W 20 billion each p.a. until 1990. The average subway fare is expected
to increase by about 10% in 1987 because a higher percentage of
passengers would take longer rides, paying a higher rate. A fare
increase of about  20% is assumed in 1988.  Higher fare increases
would be possible after a government study on bus fares is completed,
which will allow raising both subway and bus fares. Refinancing of
some of the bond loans in Yen would be needed in 1987, 1989 and 1990
(Y 5 billion each), and Y 15 billion in 1991. This is considered
feasible given the good credit rating of Korea and the guarantee of
the Foreign Exchange Bank.
5.       Financing Plan.  The overall financing plan (Annex 5, Table
5) includes the proposed Bank loan for 15 years, including a grace
period of 3 years, at the standard variable rate. An additional loan
of about $160 mMllion has been assumed between 1988-90. Without this
loan, PCG's investments, already heavily curtailed, would have to be
reduced by an additional 20%.



- 53 -
PUSAN URBAN tImaNEKEnT PR.OJECT                      ANNEX a - Page 3
TABLE 1 - BASIC ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
--------------------------------------------__----__-_--____--_----__-_------__-----__--------------------_------
1983    1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990      1991
------ Actual -------
Pusan's Population-(1000)            3395    3495      3517     3611     3709   S808       3900     3989     4077
Population Growth Rate                       2.95S    0.62X    2.69X    2.692    2.69X    2.40X    2.30X    2.20X
Persons per Household                4.44    4.35     4.19      4.13     4.08     4.02     3.97     3.92     3.86
Number of Households (1000)           765     803      840       874      910      947      983     1019     1055
I Increase#  Households                       4.92     4.61     4.11      4.11     4.1X   3.81       3.71    3.62
X Population with Water Supply       90.81   92.1X  93.01    93.01   94.41    95.22    96.11    97.0X    98.01
Population vith Water Supply (1000   3084    3218     3271      3360     3501     3626     3748     3870     3996
X Increase in Water Revenues                 15.71     7.12     5.31    15.OX   12.0X   15.61    15.3X    13.41
X Population with  weverage                           58.01    60.01   62.01    64.0X   66.01    68.01    70.02
Population vith Severage (1000)                       2040      2167     2299     2437     2574     2713     2854
X Increase Sewerage Coverage                                     6.2X     6.11     6.02     5.61     5.42     5.22
TOTAL STAFF (NATIONAL & LOCAL)      11082   12477    12648    12982    13326    13678    14000    14315    14624
* National Gov.E1ployees/1000 pers   0.34    0.35     0.34      0.34     0.34     0.34     0.34     0.34     0.34
* National Governmnat Employees      1143    1220      1194     1226     1259     1293     1324     1354      1384
i Employees Paid CIA 11000 persons   2.93    3.22      3.26     3.26     3.25     3.25     3.25     3.25     3.25
* Employees Paid by General Accoun   9939   11237    11454    11756    12066    12385    12676    12961    13239
Local Government Employees       1008    1085     1062
Agencies Employees               2247    31S7      3183
Fire Station                     1519    1645     1748
Gu Office Employees              2550    2589     2661
Dong Office Employees            2615   2781      2800
GRP Real Growth Rate                                    7.01     7.01     7.0X     7.01     7.02     7.01     7.02
Consvmer Price Annual Increase       3.38X 2.302    2.50X  2.60X   3.002    1.001    1.00          1.001    3.50X
Consumer Price Index (1985-1.0)     0.954   0.976    1.000    1.026    1.057    1.067    1.078    1.089    1.127
Foreign Inflation                                       1.01     5.02     3.01     1.01     1.02     1.02     3.52
EXCHANGE RATES:
Dollar, lUS$ - Won                 775.75  805.98   870.02   860.00   860.00   860.00   860.00   860.00   860.00
DM  1DM- Won                                        300.01   409.52   419.51   419.51   419.51   419.51   419.51
yen, 1Y$ - Won                       3.27    3.39     3.65      5.42     5.73     5.73     5.73     5.73     5.73
French Franc 1FF$- Won             101.79   92.23    96.83   125.22   124.82   124.82   124.82   124.82   124.82
Sweeden 1S$- Won                   101.18   97.44   101.12   121.77   124.64   124.64   124.64   124.64   124.64
Average Libor Interest Rate                             9.11    8.12      8.01     8.02     7.02     7.01     7.0X
Japan LTPR                                             8.01      7.02     6.51    6.0X      6.0X     6.01     6.02
02123187



- 54 -                       ANNEX 9  Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND PROGRAM OF INVESTMENTS
Introduction
1.   Pusan,  the second largest city in Korea,  is located in a
physically constrained site 2 to 3 km wide, sandwiched between steep
mountains and the sea. Most of the city's economic activity takes
place along a north-south corridor; a subsidiary east-west corridor
meets the north-south corridor at Seomyeon, creating a crucifix
shaped development area. The road network is extremely limited and has
limited potential for expansion. Despite this physical environment
and because of the city's key economic importance, the population
almost dcubled between 1970 and 1985 from 1.8 million to 3.5 million
and the number of vehicles tripled from 31,254 to about 106,000. Gross
population densities have increased from 4,930 persons per sq km in
1970 to 7,700 persons per sq km in 1982. Traffic in the city has
increased by an annual average rate of about 14% since the 1970s and
traffic problems have become severe, with chronic congestion,
inadequate numbers of buses and taxis, and increasing traffic
accidents. Demand for transportation is rising faster than the per
capita growth in GRP, and even short-term projections of demaind
indicate a total incapacity of the existing system to provide adequate
transport services. The major problems in terms of urban
infrastructure are as follows:
(a)  The existing road network cannot cope with current traffic
levels. The lack of roads is indicated by the city's road-
to-land-area ratio of 10.6%, as opposed to 15.3% in Seoul,
14.6% in Incheon, and 12.7% in Taegu. Furthermore, only 53%
of the roads are paved, compared to more than 70% in Seoul
and Incheon. There is also an excessive concentration of
traffic along the north-south axis (City Hall - Seomyeoun)
which will need to be dispersed. Parking problems in the
city have been exacerbated by the rapid increase of
vehicles, at a rate of 14% per year.
(b)   In the narrow central business district (CBD), land use is
inefficient, with a mix of labor-intensive industries, port
facilities, housing, commercial areas, military facilities
and the railroad. Many of the industries will need to be
relocated to properly zoned industrial areas. There is also
a mixture of housing within the industrial zone in the Puk
Gu (Sasang) area. Environmental conditions in the CBD area,
particularly in terms of water and air pollution, have also
deteriorated. If the city is to accommodate a projected
population of 4.2 million in 1995 and 4.8 million in 2001,
its land use will have to be improved. Some of this would be
achieved by the completion of the development of residential
areas in the outer counties and of the industrial area in



- 55 -                        ANNEX 9  Page 2
the reclaimed area in Janglim next to the Nakdong Barrage.
(c)   Open green areas in Pusan are very limited. Parks take up
only 12.3 sq km of the urban area of 132.8 sq km. This is
much less than the 33.0 sq km considered desirable to
maintain reasonably tolerable environmental conditions in
terms of air and noise pollution.
Growth Trends and Urban Plan
2.        Pusan's basic directions of growth can be seen in population
changes among the city's five major areas: Central (Chung-Gu, So-Gu,
Dong-Gu, Yeong-do-Gu, and Pusan-Jin-Gu), North (Puk-Gu), West (Saha-
Gu), South (Nam-Gu and Haeundae-Gu), and Tongrae-Gu. Table 1 shows
that since 1975 the population has been relatively static in the
Central area (1.25 million in 1975 and 1.275 million in 1984) while in
the South, North, West and Tongrae-Gu the population has grown from
1.19 million in 1974 to 2.2 million in 1984, indicating an increased
need for urban infrastructure outside of the Central area.
Table 1 - Status of Population by Settlement Areas a]
1975                      1980                   1984
Loca- Popula- Gross    Net     Popula- Gross    Net     Popula- Gross    Net
tion   tion  Density  Density   tion  Density Density    tion  Density Density
Total   2428    190      353     3157    246     457     3495    338      483
Central  1250    360      606     1269    366     615     1275    428       612
South     490    158      268      664    213     357      743    261       373
Tongrae   430    152      230      676    239     368      804    300      429
North     126     66      179      338    177     481      414    345       494
West      132     86      317      210    137     505      259    417       597
a] Population in thousand persons, density in hundred persons per ha.
Source: Basic Regional Development Plan
3.    Pusan's basic urban development strategy has been studied by
consultants (Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology-
KAIST) and the recommendations arising from the study have been
included in the "Pusan City Basic Plan for Regional Development 1987-
1991." The strategies proposed are (a) to improve the CBD area by
rehabilitating the existing area, relocating schools, industry, and
the railroad out of the CBD, and zoning more of this area for
commercial activity; (b) improve public transportation (the subway and
bus systems) and the highway network; (c) strengthen housing
development in the green areas; (d) develop the Janglim industrial
estate on reclaimed land and relocate some industries to this estate;
and (e) establish more parks and improve environmental conditions by



- 56 -                       ANNEX 9  Page 3
land use control. The Regional Development Plan includes an estimate
of various types of urban space requirements needed for the population
and economic activity expected in 1996 (see Table 2).
Table : Pusan City Urban Space Requirement
(sq km)
Type              1984           1996      Change
Residential           86.5           97.4        10.9
Commercial            14.6           16.3         1.7
Industrial            31.8           37.4         5.6
Green Track          336.7          321.4       -15.3
Undesignated           0.0           96.6        96.6
Total  469.6          569.1        99.5
Most of the additional land needed will have to be found in the
Haeundae,  Tongnae and Nam areas which will therefore require
significantly expanded urban facilities.
Investment Program
4.        The General Account (GA)  investment program for the four-
year period 1987-91 provides for balanced investments in priority
projects in all the subsectors financed from this Account and follows
the basic regional master plan for those years. Priority has been
given to projects with immediate benefits and to completing ongoing
projects and starting urgently needed new projects including (a)
expansion of smaller roads, road paving, construction of access roads,
etc.; (b) major highway investments designed to alleviate the city's
serious traffic problems; (c) construction of sewage treatment plants
and first-stage interceptor sewers in the city's three main
catchments; (d) landfill sites for solid waste disposal and (e)
construction of a wholesale market.
5.        Investments scheduled for the project period (1987-89) are
mainly as follows:
(a) Highway Program. The major highway investments planned are
construction of a second expressway and the Daeyoungro-
Chungjangro roads. Both these highways will help disperse
commercial vehicular traffic away from the CBD area and the
port to highways to Masan. The second expressway, which
would traverse a heavily trafficked route, would help reduce
commercial traffic on the city's east-west highways. A total
of W 85.85 billion is to be spent on highway construction.



- 57 -                       ANNEX 9  Page 4
(b)  Roads and Transortation. A major portion of the proposed
investments would go to the transportation sector. The
city's transport policy objectives are: (i) to maximize the
impact of the subway system by carrying out a major
reorganization of bus routes to feed into the subway
stations, and by constructing bus and taxi terminals and
parking facilities at selected subway stations; and (ii) to
reduce traffic congestion and improve the efficiency of the
road network by carrying out comprehensive traffic
management improvements along the main transport corridors
and in the CBD, and to undertake high priority investments
to increase the capacity of the principal road network. A
large number of smaller projects would expand roads (6m to
30m width) to make urban services more accessible to the
low-income areas. Many small road and pavement improvement
and extension projects have also been included in the
program. To maximize benefits from existing and planned
investments, relatively small investments under the Traffic
System Management (TSM) program have been included at an
estimated cost of about W 13.6 billion. And to maximize
benefits from the subway, transit centers for bus-subway
integration would be constructed at a cost of about W 4.0
billion. A total of W115.62 billion would be spent on road
and TSM investments.
(c)  Sewerage and Drainage Investments. Sewerage investments are
planned for the three catchment areas of Janglim, Suyeong
and Yongho, which by 1995 are expected to serve 72% of the
city's population. Most of the first-phase investments will
he for 35 km of interceptors and three treatment plants
having a combined capacity of 770,000 cu m per day. The city
expects to spend additional funds from its own resources to
complete interceptor sewers to make the treatment plants
effective. During the review of these investments during
project appraisal, in particular the Janglim sewerage area
it was recommended to invest in interceptors rather than in
treatment works in order to have an immediate impact on
water pollution control. PCG has delayed some of the
investments in the new treatment works until interceptors
are constructed and this postponement will result in reduced
investments in sewerage. Drainage investments are mainly in
stormwater drains and small river protection works costing
about W 5-7 billion. A total of W 104.36 billion is to be
spent on this component.
(d)   Solid Waste Disposal.  Waste disposal is handled by the
city's Bureau for Health and Social Affairs. The present
solid waste disposal site at Hwamyung will be filled up by
1987 and a 61.2 ha landfill site has been set aside in
Haeundae Gu which will fulfill the needs of the city till
1991. The city currently produces 5,600 tons per day of
waste which will increase to about 7,800 tons per day in
1988. Most of this will be handled at Haeundae Site.
Investments in an incinerator to dispose of 250 tons of



- 58 -
ANNEX 9  Page 5
toxic wastes per day (5% of total solid waste) has also been
planned as has night soil disposal by dumping into the sea.
About W 12.0 billion is expected to be spent on landfill
development, W 2.5 billion for night soil dumping and W 17.4
billion for the incinerator.
(e)  Wholesale Market.  The city currently has 12 private and 6
cooperative retail markets which trade 151 ton.i of fruits
and vegetables per day. About 10 of the markets are on the
west side of the city while another 8 are on the east side.
At present, all produce is distributed to the individual
markets from one central market, which is very inefficient
because heavy trucks have to travel through the city center
to reach the various markets. To make distribution more
efficient, two wholesale markets are planned: one on the
west side and one on the east. The west side market will be
located near the Sasang area and will be constructed
between 1987 and 1991. The total cost of the market is W 45
billion, including U 11 billion for land.
6.       The total GA investment program during the project pe-iod is
summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: Pusan's Total General Account Investment Plan 1987-89
(Won billion)
Total      t
Major highways                                85.85    19.6
Roads and bridges & small projects            135.62   26.4
Sewerage and drainage                         104.36   23.8
Industrial and commercial                      33.19    7.6
Disaster prevention                            9.37     2.1
Park and Saemaul movement                      9.81     2.2
Social welfare & solid waste collection       39.12     8.9
Cultural and sports facilities                 22.01    5.0
Civil defense and fire protection               6.94    1.6
General administration and others             12.48     2.8
TOTAL                              438.76   100.0
Details of sector expenditures and disbursements and their breakdown
by civil works, land acquisition and other items are shown in Annex 5.
The costs of capital works in 1987, 1988 and 1989 are expected to
total W 120 billion, W 167 billion and W 172 bilUion, respectively.
Over the three years, W 98.1 billion would be spent on land, W 268.8
billion on civil works and W 67.5 million on equipment and materials.



- 59 -                  ANNE? 9  Page 6
7.     The GA investment program is well-balanced and the investments
included would produce high economic returns. Most of the large
projects have been assessed by using formal economic evaluation
procedures. Typical internal rates of return (IRR) are as follows:
Table 4: Rates of Return for Proiects, 1987-89
Item                IRR       % of Program
Major Highways       15-30 % *     14
Minor Roads and TSM  19-40 % *    42
Transit Centers      16-35 % *      3
Waste Disposal       10-12 % +      4
Wholesale Market        15 % +      5
Total (weighted)  24 %      68
* As calculated by KAIST, August 1984, and estimated by Bank.
The Proiect
8.     The Bank loan would be directed toward small, high-priority
projects, specifically directed to low-income areas. For 1987-89,
priority investments would include access roads, expansion of minor
roads, road paving, drainage improvements and others. A tentative
program of small projects for the various Gu in 1987-89 is shown in
Table 5. Out of a total planned expenditure of W 153.7 billion (base
cost) for small projects, road expansion/access roads/pavement works
would amount to W 107.4 billion (69.9%), sewerage/drainage would
amount to W 12.9 billion (8.4%), slope protection and safety measures
W 11.4 billion (7.5%), and expenditure on parks community facilities W
11.4 billion (7.5%) offices and TSM, transit centers, and consultant
services costing is W 10.6 billion. The Project also includes a
Transportation System Management (TSM) and Transit Centers
construction component with supporting technical assistance. The
project costs envisaged for these components is W 167 billion (Tables
5 and 6). Most of these projects would have both a tremendous economic
and social impact. Access roads which form almost 75% of all small
projects open up the low-income arear to urban services such as water,
sewerage, solid waste collection, pkital services, etc. These roads
also permit access by firetrucks, an important benefit considering
that as much as $4.0 million worth of fire damage occurs in Pusan each
year.



- 60 -
KOREA                             ANNEX 9 - Page 7
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 5 - PROJECT COST IN BILLION WON a)
(Billion Won)
Local   Foreign Total   X Base Foreign    1987    1988    1989
Cost     X
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__---------------------
Roads and Highways                        79.46   27.92  107.38   69.9X   26.02  27.37   42.75   37.27
Drainage, Sewerage and Flood Control    9.11    3.78   12.89    8.42   29.3X   3.28    5.13    4.47
Embankment and Slope Protection            8.82    2.63   11.45    7.5X   23.0X   2.92    4.56    3.98
Community Facilities                       9.16    2.29   11.45    7.5$   20.02   2.92    4.56    3.98
Transportation System Management           4.14    1.86    6.00    3.9X   31.02   1.50    2.40    2.10
Transit Centers                            2.77    1.03    3.80    2.5X   27.02   0.90    1.50    1.40
TSM Technical Assistance                   0.64    0.11    0.75    0.5X   15.0X   0.25    0.50    0.00
--------------------------------------_-_--------------------------__--------__------____-----___---
Base Cost, March 1987 Prices             114.11   39.62  153.73  100.02   25.82  39.14   61.40   53.19
Physical Contingencies                   5.71    1.98    7.69    5.02   25.82   1.96    3.07    2.66
Price Contingencies                      4.03    1.40    5.42    3.52   25.82   0.62    2.27    2.54
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------_--------
TOTAL COST                               123.84   43.00  166.84  108.52   25.82  41.71   66.74   58.39
TABLE 6 - PROJECT COST IN MILLION US DOLLARS
(Million Dollars
-------------------------------------------------------_---__----------------__---------------------
Local  Foreign  Total  X Base    2          1987    1988    1989
Cost Foreign
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__---------------------
Rooads and Highways                       92.40   32.47  124.87   69.92   26.02  31.82   49.71   43.34
Drainage, Sewerage and Flood Control   10.59    4.39   14.98    8.4X   29.32   3.82    5.97    5.20
Embankment and Slope Protection           10.26    3.06   13.32    7.52   23.02   3.39    5.30    4.62
Community Facillties                      10.66    2.66   13.32    7.5X   20.02   3.39    5.30    4.62
Transportation System Management           4.81    2.16    6.98    3.92   31.02   1.74    2.79    2.44
Transit Centers                            3.23    1.19    4.42    2.52   27.02   1.05    1.74    1.63
TSM Technical Assistance                   0.74    0.13    0.87    0.52   15.02   0.29    0.58    0.00
------------------------------------------------------------_------__--------__---------------------
Base Cost, March 1987 Prices             132.69   46.07  178.76  100.02   25.82  45.51   71.40   61.85
Physical Contingencies                   6.63    2.30    8.94    5.02   25.82   2.28    3.57    3.09
Price Contingencies                      4.68    1.63    6.31    3.52   25.82   0.72    2.64    2.96
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------------
TOTAL COST                               144.00   5n.00  194.00  108.52   25.82  48.50   77.60   67.90
a] Due to rounding, the last digit in totals may appear different than the sum of columns
04-Mar-87



MM5*  03343 NAXACIE1T PSOJECT
PUJSAN cUTy Covn1aWT ?UVISIIT 91.4 2? TIM 0IMt~AL ACCO(S3r (1987-90,
I  r291odS1U91SI100IS        I                                         IUV2SthME3T   DI SUSE01 MENTS(W2L."O)                                          I         I
TYPE 0? 1N7ETJIS00t            I lwest.            I                      I         19871                          19988                         1989                1         1990                 lowest.
1   989   11904,86 I                     ITotal   CW    Land6  Other   T tota    CW    Len    Other ITotal   CM    Land   Otbse  r total   CM   Leod   Other    1 980 
TOTAL                             458764   335143   96998 100422 158321 11205,29  74130  25310  23293 1 166595  877-47  45328  446320 1171840 104861  27449  37510 1166630 116260  293469  27821    625394
30*0DS                            221469 I 69706 I10359  11285  46064 160050  21115  20924  180111  79009  42297  20347- 16365   a 2410  62813  234.24  12675   78944  41314. 21988  15422 j500413
mIajor Dlgbvaye                  85849    28451    500    7700  15750 19700   4000   5700           0    15849  26449   9100    500   40300  22300  12700    300   TOTS73   16904  12530    100  12ISIS"
Uo"sd  sd bridges            I135620    41255S   5558   5563  30514 1 5055  1.7115  15224. 18011 I43160  1.5848  11247  16065 142110  15515  10724  15815 1  9210  14630   9458  15322 1176630 
828*01 & ai                       104.365 168320 I  00   15000  47320 127915  26615   5300   1960  -s645,0  16450  1060   20000 140000  26200   1000   0800   5600  53600   6536   2464   1317965 
INDUSTRY &  cum                    35191      6749 f  015   2591   1345S I  450   2210        0    240   14582   2606  11000    976 J 17159  16337         0    822   25500  23500       0       0     56691
0ISAS728F22923T1IU                  95711   26501        0       0   16501  4473   4473        a      0    2410   2450       0       CI   1450   24.50     0       012300   2300          0      01    128731
PARK S  A3MJL309VUMT           I      091   2661         0      0   28461  2030    474         0      01    595s  3593s      0      014184   4184          0       014100   4500          0      ol   141091
SOCIAL IW21Ja8                     su120    1092 I 17   3390   7595    6430   3206   1087   2138 117520   9340   3182   &909   1 2170   6170   1023   7975 I14551- 5203   1025   9325                  55673 
CUL.TURAL AND 5206?            1  22014 j19521        6 712   6228   8571 I12342  12342        0      0    5577   55717      0      0 j  095   4095S       0       0 I 556    5563        0      0     25577j
CIVIL MEN &s14FM3271016G1           69412    50911       0 1121   19701  1307    915           0    393I  1352   2132        0   14001  2102    932        0   11701  1680    *10         0    85I       9*21(
OEM2AL AUUUSIIATIO0            1   24825  6955           0 2558   4397    4332   5780          0    552     MO88    3300     0    580 I  270   5700         0    570    4290   3630       0    360     I 26721
012  222zS7)T8                 1        011449231 728   56431  155771                                                                                                                                       0
TOTAL3 mxvzsrswr :               1987,-9  Iigs-8'Irsum I                  I 198K 27                     I1998                          j1"99                           1990                          Iwest. 
txms-  n zus.- I               0          WOW81    CU    Land  Otawe   VMaoS   CM    1-o6   Other   U0hS   CM    Led   Otber I O.S   CU    Land   Czber    2 907- 
I  m.      "a.  119841985198,  I                                                                      I       I                                                     1190
TOTAL                          I  100.021  100.011 100.01 100.01 100.011 100.03  61.62 21.02  19.411 100.0:  52.71  27.21  26.611 100.02  62.21  16.02  2±-sa1 100.0X  71.01  17.61  16.721   100.051
ROWSB                           I 48.311   20.611  10.71  15.22  53.ii1 49.91  35.22  54.81  50.011  47.41  55.52  25.81   0. 721  68.02  52.02  28.42  19.4621  47.82  32.42  27.91  19.821    46.021
Major SiShma,'.                   1S.711    $-$XI   5.21   7.71I  11.421   8.11  41.2X  56.62   0.021  21.51  73.81  25.41   0.811  23.52  67.71  31.51   0.711  23.81  6F.71  S1.51L  0.811    20.1:1
PAWd" andA 33tiftas               29.611   12.521   5. 51   5.62  21.921  41.81  34.02  50.22  15.611  25.91  56.71  26.11  37.221  24.52  36.61  25.52  51.711  21.51  36.61  24.11I  39.121    2s.oII
8111*08 a Tim2                 1    22.711   20.311   6.22  14.91  34.221  2.3.21  95.a1  11l.81   7.011  21j.91  445.11  29.61  54.921  15.32  65.51   ?.5t  21.011  20.2  100.02  16.91   T.s21   22.1:1
1300811  a ucouow              I     7.2iI    2.011   3.12   2.43   2.Ozj   1.23  85.43   0.03  16.621   9.82  17.92  75.42   6.721  10.02  95.22   0.02   4.611  14.18 100.01   0.02   0.0:1            9.121
018SATU 1389131                1    2.021    O.Gt1   0.02   0.02   1.921   5.7t2100.02   0.01   0.011   1.51 100.02   0.01   0.011   1.42 100.02   0.02X  0.011   1.51 100.01   0.02   0.021             1.921
1AI1 4 SAWML"L kVU00IT         I    2.111    o.azI   0.01   0.01   2.121   1.71%  25.31   0.02   0.021   2.22 100.02   0.01   o.021   2.41 100.01   0.01   0.021   2.61 100.01   0.01   0.011            2.52)
SOCIAL. VWAIM4±                I    e.Ssl    s.sxl   0.01   3.62   isal1  5.52  69.91  16.*1  55.211  10.5t 53.32  10.22  29.511   8.82  40.72   S.9$2  .52.62l I8.72  55.63   7.01  57.221              9.#X1
CULTURAL AMD 8108              1    4.62I    S.S1l   4.9X   6.2X   6.2Xl  10.51 100.02   0.02   0.021    3.31 100.0X   0.01   0.021   2.41 100.0:   0.01   0.011   2.0Z 100.02   0.01   0.021            4.1I21
CIVI 081288  S FM±  ncunTI   I    1.511    0.911   0.0    1.1:   1.421   1.11  70.01   0.02  S0.091   2.11  60.41   0.01  59.6X1   1.21  44.11   0.02  55.721   1.02  49.41   0.01  50.621               1.421
G    Al. AiEUl8AflUtCR          I    2.?11    2.121   0.01   2.51   3.211   5.61  87.51   0.02  12.7X1   2.32  65.12   0.02  14.911   2.51  88.71   0.01  1S.321   2.52  86.62   0.01  135.42X            2.721
Olin I5938wan2                  I    0.OZI  4S.221  75.2Z  56.22  21.1.1                                I                              I                             I                             1     6.021



- 62 -
PUSAN URBUN HANAGEMENT PROJECT                  ARNMR 11 - Page 1
TABLE 1  - MONITORIUC INDICATORS FOR PUSAN CITY GOVERCNMNT            BILL.WON
1983    1984    1985    1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991
----- Actual ------
-------_------------------------------------------------_------__------------__--------------------------------
TOTAL GENERAL & SPECIAL ACCOUNTS)
----------------------------------
Total Budgeted Rovenues-W Billion   363.5   542.7   532.9   562.0    662.9    612.4    581.0    611.2    716.3
Self-raised Revenues (Excludes
Grants and Borrowing) W Billion   227.8   304.6   334.7   379.5    413.3    429.0    450.7    495.2    510.5
Total Borrowing W Billion            122.6   222.5   175.9   160.8    204.6    135.7      79.7      62.4    147.4
Cash Surplus (deficit) V Billion             159.8   138.4    41.0    103.8    116.4      83.3     70.5      97.7
Per Capita Total Budget-1985 Won       112     159     152     152       169      151      138      141       156
Self-raised Revenues/Capita 1985-W      70      89      95     102       105      106      107      114       111
X Self-raised Revenues on Budget        63X     562     63X     68X       62X      70X      78X      81X       71X
Subsidies to SA on GA's Expenditures           9.1S    6.82    8.62    10.OX      5.62     5.4X     5.41      3.72
GA & SA Surplus (Deficit) on Total Budget    29.52   26.02    7.32    15.7X    19.02    14.32    11.5X    13.62
SA Budget on Total GA & SA Budget       522     602     542     482       462      38X      372       392      42X
INDICATORS FOR GENERAL ACCOUNT
_ ____________________________
Total Budgeted Revenues-Billion W   173.2   215.8   245.4   291.0    357.2    377.0    366.4    373.3    415.3
Total Taxes - Bllion W               94.3   102.8   108.7   124.1    129.C    139.1    149.6    161.1    177.7
Real Estate Taxes (Acquisition, Registration, Property
and City Plannig) on Taxes    72.82   71.12   71.01   72.52    70.92    71.0X    71.32    71.52    71.82
X Property Taxes on Taxes             17.02   15.52   15.52   16.0X    15.92    15.9X    16.02    16.3X    16.5X
2 Taxes on Budget                     74.82   67.02   62.4X   58.82    51.2X    51.92    57.32    60.3X    59.62
X Self-raised Revenues on Budget      92.32   91.0X   90.5X   86.72    74.2X    73.1X    77.4X    81.8X    80.8X
X Government Grants on Budget          7.62    7.32    9.12    7.52    12.62    12.72    13.82    14.4X    14.1X
Per Capita Taxes (1985 Won)          40002   42383   43537   46212    46649    48160    49938    51845    53881
2 Real Increase in Per Capita Taxes            6.02    2.72    6.12      0.92     3.2X     3.72     3.82      3.92
Per Capita Budget (1985 Won)         53499   63275   69771   78548    911S¶    92759    87164    85930    90389
Locally Approved Tax per Capita (t  14153   14278   14436   15363    15938    16462    17128    17919    18769
GENERAL ACCOUNT EXPENSES
Total Expendi!ures Billion W                214.9   241.7   289.3    299.3    351.6    365.9    368.3    398.5
Total Expenditures (Billion W 1985)          220.3  241.7   282.0    283.2    329.4    339.4    338.3    353.7
X Real Increase in Expenditures                        9.7X   16.72     0.42    16.32      3.0X    -0.32      4.5X
Expenditures/Inhabitent-Thousand 1985 Won    63.0    68.7    78.1       76.4     86.5     87.0     84.8      86.7
Total Staff (National and Local)    11082   12477   12648   12982    13326    13678    14000    14315    14624
# Staff paid by General Account       9939   11257   11454   11756    12066    12385    12676    12961    13239
Total Staff per 1000 Inhabitants      3.26    3.57    3.60    3.59      3.59     3.59     3.59     3.59      3.59
Avg. Salary Million/Employee/Year             4.07    4.43    5.20      5.69     6.04     6.44      6.75     7.24
Personnel/(Personnel & Other AMm.Bxpenoes)   69.8X   71.92   69.8X    72.52    73.22    73.92    74.32    74.6X
Debt Service on Total Expenditures             2.3X    O.S2    0.62      1.2X     1.82     2.5X     2.7X      4.5X
Subsidies to SAs on Total Expenditures        14.22   14.92   15.02    15.4Z    11.5X    10.2X      9.62      7.8X
GA's Capital Expenditures- Billlon Won        96.0   115.9   131.3    120.3    166.6    171.8    166.6    180.0
GA's Capital Expenditures-Billion 1985 Won   98.4   115.9   127.9    113.9    156.1    159.4    153.0    159.7
Capital on Total GA Expenditures              44.72   48.02   45.41    40.22    47.42    47.0X    45.22    45.22
Per Capita Capital Expenditures (1985 Won)  28152   S2956   35428    30703    40985    40876    38362    39176
Transportation on GA's Capital Expend.        33.5X   45.62   35.12    49.9X    47.42    48.0X    47.42    20.42



- 63 -
PUSAN URPAN MAAUIENT PROJECT                     AlNN  11 - Pa*ge 2
TABLE 2 - NOMITORIIG INDICATORS FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNTS               BILLION
-------.----------------------------------------------------__---------------__-----------_--------------------
1983   1984   1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
------------.-----------------------------------------------_------__--------__--------------------------------
Pusan's Population-(1000)           3395   3495   3517   3611    3709    3808    3900    3989    4077
Population Growth Rate                      2.9X   0.62   2.7X       2.72    2.72    2.41    2.3X       2.21
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS SPECIAL ACCOUNTSt
-..------------------------------------
Operating Revnues SIA                       53.3   57.6   63.3  478.0    92.7   106.0   117.7   136.8
Public Enterprises on S/A Revenues          88.72  89.4X  90.12  *91.52   92.5X   93.1X   93.62   94.2X
Operating Expenses on Revenues              60.11  66.7X  77.32   69.9X   63.2X   57.92   54.5X   50.71
Total Capital Inveetmants-Billion Won      272.6  205.2  201.7   112.7    45.4    43.7    37.8    37.6
Debt Service Coverage                        1.8    0.8    0.5       0.5      0.5     0.6      0.7      C.5
SUBWAY SPECIAL ACCOUNT
Ridership 1000 Trlps/day                                   79.3   161.4   220.0   260.0   273.0   286.7
Ridership to cover Operation & Interest                   837.3  1018.5   955.1   949.5   912.3   684.3
Ridership Forecasted Feasiollity Study-1000/day'          130.0   229.0   429.0   542.0   569.1   597.6
Operating Expenses per Ride                                 383      214      174     158      157      160
Operation & Interest per Ride                              1939    1262    1042       876      802      716
Fare (Won per trip)                                         184      200      240     240      240      300
X Actual vs Forecasted Ridership                             61X      7OX      51X     482      482      48X
Fare Increase to -:ver Operation                            1082       7X    -271    -34X    -S5X    -472
Fare Increase to pay Operation & Interest                  1056X    601X    4132    348X    318X    2272
Subway Revenues - Billion Won                               5.3    12.4    20.2    23.9    25.1    33.0
Subway Operating Exenses-illion Won                        11.1    12.6    14.0    15.0    15.6    16.7
Operation & Interest-Bllion Won                           56.1    74.4    83.7    83.2    79.9    74.9
Operation & Debt Servle -Billion Won                      110.2   128.7   116.3   128.6   133.1   157.9
WATER SUPPLY SPECIAL ACCOUNT
____________________________
X Population with Water Supply      90.8X  92.12  93.0X  93.5X   94.42   95.22   96.12   97.02   98.02
Water Sold (liters/capita/day)       167    170    176    180        187      195     202      208      215
Water Sold-Million Tons per yar   188.S  200.2  209.9  221.0   239.5   257.9   275.9   294.3   313.0
Water Produced-Million Tons/Year  313.871 321.443 341.119 347.724  399.092  429.832 437.962  452.781  481.538
Peak Production on Prod.Capaefty    104.6X 107.22  113.72  73.OX   83.82   90.3X   69.02   71.3X   75.9X
Z Unaccounted-for Water.            40.02  37.72  38.52  36.4    40.02   40.02   37.02  35.0X    35.02
Avrage Tariff V/ton                169.7  184.7  188.8  188.8   200.3   208.3    225.1   243.3   259.4
2 Tariff Increass In Current Prices         8.82   2.21   0.01    6.12    4.0X    8.:X    8.12    6.62
# Staff per 1000 Connections         6.0    5,8    5.7    6.1        6.0      5.9     5.8      5.7      5.6
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets          10.9X   4.92   2.52    2.7X       3.32    5.3X    7.42    9.12
Capital Expenditures-Billlon Won  25.977 39.452 31.313  35.333  45.332  20.834  21.200  16.200  16.200
2 Self-Financing of Investments      123X    22X    132    15X        -1X    -772      35X      722    104X
HOUSING SPECIAL ACCOUNT
Operation Expenses on Operat. R*venues      79.1X  86.21  87.2X   83.6X   83.72   83.9X   84.02   84.12
Borrowing on Budget                         63.52  24.52  14.02   14.4X  14.92  15.32   16.12   18.52
Capital Expendltures-Billion Won            19.5   10.3   10.1    13.8    12.9    11.0         9.9      9.5
Operational Expenses-BillLon Won             6.9    6.9    7.3       7.6      8.1     8.8      9.5    10.4
Operational Revenues-Billion Won             8.8    8.0    8.4       9.1      9.7    10.4    11.3    12.4
Debt Service - Bllion Won                   3.5    4.6    4.6       4.9      5.0     5.5      5.7      9.3
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-----------_--------------------



- 64 -
ANNEX 11 - Page 3
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(A)      KEY IMPLEMENTATION DATES FOR INSTITUTION ACTIONS:
COMPONENT                                     SCHEDULED DATE
o   Approval of PSIDP.                      Done
o   Establish Traffic Planning Division.    Done
o   Establish Investment Management  Unit   12/31/1987
and Regional Development Division for
estrategic planning and project
review.
O   Establish Bureau of Transportation.      12/31/1987
o   Long-term Financial and Investment Yearly
Plans, to be updated semiannually.
O   Introduce microcomputers  to the 1987
Planning and Management Bureau
o   Study of a Pusan Fund Management 12/31/1987
Special Account.
O   Set up an integrated Water and 12/31/1988
Sewerage Bureau.
(B)       PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
#   Base  % of 1987 1988 1989
UNIT     Units Cost  Total
a] Kill.$
Roads and Highwiays           Subproject 192 124.9  70   68   69   55
Drainage and Sewerage         Subproject  48  15.0   8   16   17   15
Embankment & Slope Protection Subproject  49  13.3   8   15   18   16
Community Facilities          Subproject  40  13.3   7   12   15   13
TSM                           Corridors   (6)  7.0   4    2    2    2
Transit Centers               Subproject   2   4.4   2    1    1
Technical Assistance          Man-months (102) 0.9   1   30   72
TOTAL                                      331 178.8 100
a] The project would include many small subprojects. This table
includes those with a unit cost over $0.4 million.



- 65 -
Annex 12
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ Million)
Bank    Year and  -- DISBURSEMENTS --    --- DISBURSEMENT PROFILE ---
Fiscal   Semester
Year     Ending   Semester  Cumulative   Project   Korea        Korea
(General)    (IDF)
1987    30-Jun-87      0.0        0.0      0.0%      2.0%       1.0%
31-Dec-87 1)   6.0        6.0     12.0%     7.0%        9.0%
1988    30-Jun-88       7.0      13.0     26.0%    17.0%       26.0%
31-Dec-88      8.0       21.0     42.0%    31.0%       46.0%
1989    30-Jun-89       8.0      29.0     58.0%    47.0%       67.0%
31-Dec-89     10.0       39.0     78.0%    62.0%       83.0%
1990    30-Jun-90       8.0      47.0     94.0%    74.0%       94.0%
1991    31-Dec-90       3.0      50.0    100.0%    85.0%      100.0%
1]   Represents the initial disbursement of $6 million for the Special
Account.



- 66 -              Annex 13 - Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance in Urban Transportation
Introduction
1.       Because of the growing importance of urban transport and the
increasing financial demands that this sector is making on the
municipal budget, Pusan City Government proposes to strengthen its
technical capacity in this area by creating a Traffic Planning
Division which will be responsible to the new Bureau of Transportation
and Tourism. The proposed Division will comprise three sections:
Transportation Investment Planning, Traffic and Transportation
Engineering, and Public Transport Management. The roles of these
three sections are described briefly below:
Section                          Role
Transportation Investment Planning - Medium- and long-range planning
and project evaluation.
Traffic and Transport Engineering  - Short-range planning, design
and implementation.
Public Transport Management        - Planning, management and
operations.
Obj ectives
2.        Because of the importance attached to the work of the new
Division and the difficulty of obtaining staff with the necessary
technical skills, it is proposed to strengthen the Traffic Planning
Division through a technical assistance contract. The purpose of
these terms of reference is to define the scope of this contract and
the qualifications, skills and duties of the staff to be provided. It
is the City Government's intention to replace the hired experts with
permanent full-time staff. To this end, a vigorous program of staff
training is proposed, part of which will be implemented under the
technical assistance contract.
3.        The technical assistance contract would involve four main
tasks:
(i) technical support to the three sections of the
new Traffic Planning Division;
(ii) preparation of manuals and guidelines for:
- traffic impact analysis
- road feasibility studies and project evaluation
- TSM planning and implementation;
(iii) implementation studies for bus reorganization and
bus/subway integration; and



- 67-               Annex 13 - Page 2
(iv) training of Pusan City officials and traffic police.
Scope of Work
4.        Technical Support:  The technical assistance contract would
involve five experts: a Transportation Planner, a Transport Economist,
two TSM Engineers, and a Public Transport Planner. The timing of the
proposed interventions by the experts is shown in Appendix 1. A
description of the qualifications and duties of the five experts is
given in paragraph 8 below.
5.         Preparation of Manuals: This task is one of the most
important in that it will provide the Traffic Planning Division with a
series of technical guidelines which can be used after the departure
of the experts.  Guidelines will be produced in three important areas:
(a) Project Evaluation - Guidelines and criteria for the
selection of projects, particularly in the roads sector. For
larger projects guidelines for economic, environmental, financial
and operational evaluation should be prepared. This will be
particularly important for the preparation of the annual
transport investment plan which would become a legal requirement
during 1987.
(b) TSM Planning - Planning and design guidelines will be
prepared for traffic management, traffic engineering, parking,
public transport priority measures, signing and marking, traffic
signals and safety improvements.
(c) Traffic Impact Analysis - This type of analysis will become a
requirement for all major transport infrastructure investments
requiring government support. Although guidelines are under
preparation by Government, it will take some time for the
concepts and techniques to become institutionalized. The experts
will provide guidance to the Division on the implementation of
these guidelines.
6.       Bus/Subway Integration:  With completion of the main section
of Line 1 of the subway in May 1987, it will become increasingly
urgent to give consideration to the reorganization of the bus system
in order to maximize the overall efficiency of the public transport
system and subway revenues. Proposals for rationalizing bus routes
should be evaluated and preparations made for their implementation as
soon as possible.   Consideration should also be given to the
construction of bus/taxi terminals at key subway stations.
7.       Training:  The proposed training courses would be of one to
two weeks duration and would involve staff from the following bureaus
and agencies; Transportation and Tourism, Construction (Road
Division), Urban Planning, Planning and Management, Subway, and
Traffic Police.  The courses would be of one- to two-weeks duration.
Topics to be covered would include Project Planning and Evaluation,
TSM Planning and Engineering, Transportation Planning, Public



- 68 -              Annex 13 - Page 3
Transport Planning, Traffic Engineering, and Traffic Safety. Written
documentation would be provided with each course. Full use would be
made of visual aids to illustrate the lectures and provide insights
into traffic and transport planning methods from overseas.
Duties of Experts
8.        The experts proposed should have a minimum of five years
experience in their respective fields.  Their duties will be as
follows:
Position        Transportation Planner
Assignment          Transportation Investment Planning Section
Duration            24 months
Duties              To assist the section chief in all project
planning and project evaluation activities.
To prepare guidelines and manuals for project
evaluation and traffic impact analysis.
To develop a comprehensive transport policy
encompassing roads, subways, buses, taxis,
pedestrians and parking.
To prepare and carry out training activities in
transportation planning, project evaluation and
traffic impact analysis.
To develop computer applications for transport
planning and implement a comprehensive program of
traffic monitoring and data collection.
Position        Transport Economist
Assignment         Transportation Investment Planning Section
Duration           12 months
Duties             Toassist the section chief and transportation
planner with the preparation of guidelines for
project evaluation, training activities and the
introduction of computer analysis for economic
evaluation.
Position        TSM Engineers
Assignment         Traffic and Transportation Engineering Section
Duration           24 months and 18 months



-69-                 Annex 13 - Page 4
Duities            To assist the section chief with the design and
implementation of the first two-year
program of TSM and safety measures for four
transport corridors and two CBD areas.
To assist tbe transportation planner with the
preparation of guidelines for traffic impact
analysis.
To prepare and carry out training activities in
traffic impact analysis, traffic management,
traffic engineering, TSM planning and
engineering, and traffic safety.
To prepare detailed plans for bus/subway terminals
in collaboration with the public transport
planner.
Position        Public Transport Planner
Assignment           Public Transport Management Section
Duration             12 months
Duties              To assist the section chief with all aspects of
public transport planning and management.
To prepare and implement a bus reorganization
and bus/subway integration program.
To prepare outline plans for the bus/subway
terminals in collaboration with the TSM engineers.
To prepare and carry out training activities in
public transport planning.
APPENDIX 1. TRAFFIC PLANNING DIVISION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
YEAR 1         YEAR 2               MAN MONTHS
FUNCTION               I---I--------------I   FOREIGN  LOCAL
Transport Planner                                            24
TSM Engineer 1                                                        24
TSM Engineer 2                                               18
Public Trans. Planner                                                18
Economist                                                             12
Training Program              -     -                         3        3
Total                                                        21       81



- 70 -
Annex 14 - Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Prolect File
1.   Mission Working Papers.
(a)  Details of previous budgetary results for the GA and the SAs.
(b) PCG's Investment Plan for 1986-90.
(c) PCG's Detailed Investment Plan for 1987.
(d) PCG's Long-Term Financial Plan, and detailed financial
projections for the General Account and all Special
Accounts.
2.   Studies and Other Documents
(a)  Pusan City's Statistical Yearbooks for 1985 and 1986.
(b) Pusan City's Five-Year Plan (1987-91).
(c) National Bureau of Statistics, Economic Planning Board,
Korea Statistical Yearbooks for 1983, 1984 and 1985 (in
Division File).
(d) Economic Planning Board, Major Statistics of the Korean
Economy 1984 (in Division File).
(e) Busan Transportation Improvement Project, Final Report,
August, 1980, by Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology and YooShin Engineering Corporation.
(f) Development of a Rapid Transit System in Busan City,
Economic Feasibility Study, Summary Report, June 1980,
Prepared by the Urban Transport Research Group of RDRI/KIST.



MAP SECTION



DEM. PEOPLE'S REP. j                                                '     1290 X                                                     1295¢5
OF KOREAr,-                 F-                                                  To -hayo                                        rOSoo.
r~~~~~~~.S
Seoul
REPUBLIC                                                            .             ,--- 
-      KOREA                                                                  .:,                             
'                             -' ~NCHANO S/N
KIMHAE         12955'                                               .     tI
-- -                         -   .-      3---~-~*~                                                         -'                          TONGSAN          -x
z o  ,                                              .,_ _ __.ONCHON   ,
7,,'?'              N                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUMiN
ncho/e                                N>/ xr  5  A                 MANDUK/
,/'   /XX                      ¢'        /=\/,'/   ~~~~~~KUPO                  (-c>                          
-9     .-                                                 Yong>7,  
7            *'.                   Dz-g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7' 
-                     /                        /y <  S  TONGNAE             _7
SAMNAK
/im/rae |/ i   /                                                 2                 ro,                                     /fYUYON
loerof,osaf                        i                            PULSANJIN
tL                                                                                                 so-yos   MIRYANG
KIMHAE            POLDER                                                                                                       TAEYON -  CAJANG
tZe~~                                  ~ ~~~~ ,  DISTi      .                            /'CNWACN1  ONGD                                                50
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~  %  KAMCHON   ~>                           -CHUG
'~~~~~~~'0, ~ ~  ~           ~           ~          ~          5
*s                    .~                                     REfUBLI \F YQSD   KOREA
PUSAN URBAN MANAGEMENT PROJECT
/                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed TSM Corridors
.'    ' '  .                                                                      -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Expesswa,ys (Toll)
=____   Main Roads
Ei,-f   Ce_   a Business 0/no-lots (CBD)
S A H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~olso  ra
-    Ou (County) Boundaries
O 1            2   2.        4   ,5 KIOMETEY:S                                                                              Poostisse Boundary
-Suboway tExisting In 1907)
ruhna 555 sten prwt  or Tie 00,0 OrO sit assr x ntne0
tOx oase  t ondxx   no orx.ian - Teot Tnes Oa - On e henxansss ii
O5ist,  r nois e tsr esa-arias aotcsorxr em or asr oa,lr rciOrtsl                                                                                                         0
S                                                                                                                                                                              0 CH
-357                                                                                                              GU 1155  1615O 



