Report No. 358a-KORpto3IKL                                                                         0
Korea: Appraisal of                                                           FIE  COPY
Integrated Agricultural Products
Processing Project
April 25, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Won 1.00       =  US$0.0025
Won 400        =  US$1.00
Won 1 million = US$2,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)         =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2) =  10.76 square feet
1 kilogram (kg)     =  2.205 pounds
1 hectare (ha)      =  3,000 pyongs
1 pyong             =  3.3 m2
1 standard case
(mushrooms,
peacheseand
asparagus)    =  24 cans of 16 ounces (425 grams)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDC      -  Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation'
EPB       - Economic Planning Board
EROR      -  Economic Rate of Return
IQF       -  Individual Quick Freezing
i4AF      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery
MHSA      - Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
NACF      - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NAPIO     - National Agricultural Products Inspection Office
ORD       -  Office for Rural Development
SRES      -  Suweon Horticultural Experimental Station
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................   i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ........ ...           ........... ,...........         1
II.   BACKGROUND ................o*.....                                   1
A. The Economy 1...                               ....              1
B.   The Agricultural Sector               .........                2
III.   FRUIT AND VEGETABLE INDUSTRY                    . ........            3
A.   Production  .....                             ......           3
F.   Processing Formulati.                  .       .... .....  .    5
C.   Institutions ..                .............6
D.   Credit ......................                                  7
B.  Marketing Far............ .                                     7
F.   Project Formulation ................             ......   18
IV.   DH   CosT E       at..                        .     ...  ...... .    9
A. Definitiong.                           ...........  9
B.   Detailed Features ............................. ....   10
C.   Project Phasing ................................................   14
D.   Cost Estimates .............................................. .   14
E.   Financing ..................................................   15
F.   Procurement . .................................................... 16
G.   Disbursement ....... .............................   17
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....          .....................   17
A.   Project Administration .....          .....................   17
B.   Appraisal Procedures ....        ..........................   19
C.   Lending Terms .......          ............................   19
D.   Accounts and Audit ................       ..............    20
E.   Project Evaluation ........... ................ .    20
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND OPERATING RESULTS                   21
A.   Production ................                 ...............   21
B.   Markets ..          .......................................   21
C.   Operating Results ..........   ........... ...... O..   22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ..................          .......   23
A.    Project's Contribution to Third Plan ..........         ..   23
B.   Economic Rate of Return ...................    24
VIII.    RECOMKENDATIONS ........        ..............................   24



-2-
SCHEDULE A - Project Phasing
SCHEDULE B - Appraisal Procedures
ANNEXES
1.   Fresh Mushroom Production
Table 1 - Korea: Growth Rate of Mushroom Production
2.   Shiitake Production
Table 1 - Shiitake Production in Korea
3.   Asparagus Production
4.   Strawberry Production
5.   Present Status of Fruit and Vegetable Canning
and Freezing Industry
6. Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC)
Table 1 - AFDC - Summarized Balance Sheets - December 1969-
September 1973
Table 2 - AFDC - Summarized Profit and Loss Accounts, 1969-73
Appendix A - AFDC Organization Chart
Appendix B - Organization of the Project Unit_
7.   Horticultural Research and Extension Service                                W
8.   Markets, Prospects, Prices and Marketing Arrangements
Table 1 - U.S. Production and Imports of Canned Mushroos
Table 2 - Major Suppliers of Canned Mushrooms
9.   Major Characteristics of Modernization of Canning and
Freezing Facilities
Appendix A - Technical Description of Facility Improvement
Appendix B - Proposed Equipment System and Practices
Appendix C - Design Characteristics for Cold Storage Facility
Table 1 - Estimated Benefits of Modernization Plan - Mushroom
Canneries
Chart   I - Diagram of Cold Storage Facility
Chart II - Flow Chart and Processing Operations for
Proposed Mushroom Canneries
Chart III - Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Canning
Peaches
Chart IV - Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Canning
Asparagus-
Chart   V - Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Freezing
Strawberries
Chart VI - Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Freezing
Spinach
Chart VII - Layout for Shiitake Drying Facility



3
10.   Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Table  1 -  Summary of Cost Estimates
Table  2 - Modernization of Mushroom Houses
Table  3 -  On-Farm Development - Asparagus
Table  4 -  On-Farm Development - Shiitake
Table  5 - Modernization of Mushroom Cannery
Table  6 - Modernization of Integrated Cannery - Peach Canning
Table  7 - Asparagus Canning
Table  8 - New Freezing Plant
Table  9 - M4odernization of Freezing Plant
Table 10 -  Shiitake Drying Facility
Table 11 -  Technical Assistance
11.   Terms of Reference for the Study of the AFDC Accounting
and Management Information System
12.   Disbursements Schedule
13.   Qualifications and Terms of Reference for the Project Manager
14.   1973 Average Prices
15.   Notes on Financial Analysis
Table  1 - Modernization of Mushroom Houses - 300 Pyongs
Table  2 - Modernization of Mushroom Houses - 1,700 Pyongs
Table  3 -  Asparagus - Farm Development
Table  4 -  Shiitake - Farm Development
Table  5 - Modernization of Mushroom Cannery
Table  6 - Modernization of Integrated Cannery - Peaches/Mushrooms
Table  7 -  Asparagus Canning Line
Table  8 - New Freezing Plant - Strawberries/Spinach
Table  9 - New Shiitake Drying Plant
Table 10 - AFDC Project Cash Flow
16.   Socio-Economic Benefits of the Project
Table 1 - Project's Impact on Farmers' Income
Table 2 - Incremental Employment - 1980
Table 3 - Incremental Production and Export Earnings
Table 4 - Economic Rate of Return
$AP
IBRD 10943






KOREA
w
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the modernization of production
and processing of selected fruits and vegetables in Korea. Present pro-
duction and canning facilities are outdated and inefficient. Consequently
Korean canned products are susceptible to botulism and other ty.es of
spoilage. This is of particular significance in view of the retcent intro-
duction of strict hygiene requirements by importing countries for processed
foods: the export market is the major outlet for the industry's production.
In additions, the present canning industry is entirely dependent upon the
processing of one or two crops (mushrooms and peaches).  The lack of multi-
product processing results in under-utilization of installed capacity and
of the labor force, thereby increasing the production cost.
ii.       The future existence of this industry, therefore, requires
that both production and processing facilities be modernized and diversified
to comply with importing countries' hygiene regulations and to increase
the efficiency of operations to compete more effectively in international
trade. Previous attempts at modernizing the industry have not been very
-dsk      effective, due to the lack of funds and of efficient technical assistance.
Modernization (modern equipment, techniques and extension service) coupled
with diversification (development of new crops for processing) as envisaged
under the project, would enhance Korea's international competitiveness in
agro-industry products. The Government places great importance on this
project since a modern integrated fruit and vegetable industry could contribute
significantly in increasing incomes and employment opportunities in rural
areas and in expanding exports from the agricultural sector.
iii.      The project would be implemented over four years and has been
designed to enable Korea to achieve its projected share of the export market
for processed horticultural products. The commodities selected under the
project are labor-intensive and suitable to the Korean soil conditions and
climate. These commodities would not displace any paddy production, but
would benefit rice farmers by providing them with cash income during the off-
season. The project would consist of:
(a) development and modernization of crop production: asparagus
(about 435 ha) and shiitake or oak mushrooms (24,000 m3) would
be developed. Mushroom growing houses (covering an area
of about 40 ha) would be modernized. Healthy, virus-free
strawberry runners would be produced for planting over
300 ha; about 2,500 ha would be developed under spinach;
(b)  modernization of canneries:   22 canneries processing
only mushrooms, and 20 integrated canneries (processing



- ii -
peaches/mushrooms/other vegetables) would be modernized.
In ,addition, four canneries, at present processing other
vegetables, would be equipped to process asparagus;
(c) diversification of processing activities: two new freezing
plants would be constructed and one existing freezing
plant would be modernized to freeze strawberries and
spinach. A maximum of seven new drying facilities for
shiitake would be established; and
(d) technical assistance: three experts in asparagus and
strawberry production and two in canning and freezing
operations would be trained abroad. A Project Manager,
experienced in modern canning and freezing practices,
who would be recruited internationally, would be financed
for two years.  Two short-term consultants would be
financed to assist the on-farm development of asparagus
and strawberries. A study to improve the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation's (AFDC) accounting and
financial information system would also be financed.
Processors and farmers would be trained locally in
modern technology. A project evaluation study would be
undertaken by the Marketing Section of the Project Unit.
iv.       The project would be implemented by AFDC, an agency of the                    _
Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery (MAF), which is responsible for
agro-industries' development in the country. Under AFDC, a Project
Unit would be established which would be headed by an internationally
recruited Project Manager and would consist of three Sections:
Technical, Appraisal and Marketing-. Most of the staff required to
man these Sections is already available in AFDC and would be -assigned
to the Project Unit on a full-time basis. The Project Unit staff would
be trained in project appraisal and supervision procedures by the Project
Manager and the Chiefs of the three Sections. The Suweon Horticultural
Experimental Station (SHES), an agency of MAF, would provide technical
assist-ance to the Project Unit.
v.        The Project Unit would appraise sub-borrowers and supervise the
implementation of the Project. The sub-borrowers (farmers and processors)
would enter into a contract to follow technical advice provided by the
Project Unit. The Unit would also ensure that the project farmers and
processors would enter into an agreement whereby the latter would procure
the farmers' production at a price agreed between them. This marketing system
is at present followed by mushroom farmers and canners and has proved satisfactory
to both parties. Loans approved by the Project Unit would be disbursed to
sub-borrowers by the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF),
on behalf of AFDC, at a maximum handling charge of 0.5% per annum. A
Steering Committee would be established to coordinate project implementation
among the different government agencies and its members would be AFDC,
Economic Planning Board (EPB), MAF, Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
(MHSA), National Agricultural Products Inspection Office (NAPIO), SEES and
NACF.



- iii -
vi.       The loan would be made to AFDC and would be guaranteed by the
Government. The total project cost is estimated at about US$20.0 M, of
which IBRD's loan would be US$13.0 M (65%), covering the direct and
indirect foreign exchange component. The Government would provide 16% of
total project cost (US$3.2 M) to AFDC to invest under the project. Sub-
borrowers' contribution, depending upon sub-projects, would range between
18-20%. AFDC would lend funds to sub-borrowers at a minimum annual interest
rate of 10.5%, which would be adequate to cover the cost of administering
the loan, as well as provide sufficient financial incentive to sub-borrowers
to participate under the project. AFDC would bear the foreign exchange
risk on loans made to farmers, while the processors would bear such risk
themselves, since their incremental production resulting from the project
would be sold in foreign currencies.
vii.      Two new freezing plants (each costing about US$1.0 M) and equipment
for modernization of one freezing plant (US$0.6 M) would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.  Farm inputs and equipment
for modernizing canneries would be procured locally by the sub-borrowers,
since there are expected to be large variations in the requirements of
sub-borrowers, who would be widely scattered in time and space and hence
bulking of items would not be practical. The construction of new shiitake
drying facilities would be procured through local competitive bidding. The
_lik      current energy shortage would not significantly affect the implementation
of the project since the energy requirements would primarily be met by
NW     -hydro-electric power.
viii.     The project's incremential production of canned peaches and
asparagus, frozen strawberries and spinach, and dried shiitake would be
marketed mainly in Japan and Europe. Canned mushroom production would be
increased at a much slower rate (about 5% per year) and would be primarily
marketed in Europe, followed by the US and Canada.
ix.       The estimated financial rates of return to sub-borrowers would
range from 22% to 39%. This would be in line with the rate of return
expected from alternative investment in Korea.
x.        The project, at full development (1980), would involve about 5,000
farmers, whose present annual average income is about 40% below the national
average. Without the project, this gap would increase to about 46%, while
with the project, the disparity would be only about 15%. This is a
significant contribution, particularly in view of the fact that the Govern-
ment is presently placing great emphasis on increasing rural-incomes. The
project would create about 2,600 permanent jobs in rural areas, as well
as provide seasonal employment to a large number of farmers.   The project
would also contribute annually about US$22 M in incremental export earnings.
The rate of return expected to accrue to the economy is estimated at 24%.
These benefits and the impact on the economy confirm the project's high
priority and its place in the Government's strategy for economic development.



- iv -
lw
xi.      The project is suitable for an IBRD loan of US$13.0Q M, repayable
over 20 years, including a grace period of five years.
w
.



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Korea has requested an IBRD loan to help finance
the integration and modernization of fruit and vegetable production and pro-
cessing facilities. This labor-intensive industry, developed in the last
decade primarily for the export market, lacks the modern equipment and
facilities essential for economic and hygienic production. Importing
countries have recently begun strict enforcemnent of hygiene regulations
for processed food to ensure products are freBe from botulism and other
spoilage. To meet these standards, the Korean industry must modernize its
facilities if it is to maintain its present share of international trade.
Modernization efforts have been hindered by lack of funds.
1.02      At present, most facilities are entirely dependent upon processing
mushrooms which have a limited growing season; hence, installed capacity and
labor force are not fully utilized. Past attempts to diversify processing
have failed because of lack of raw materials. On the other hand, develop-
ment of new crops for processing, such as asparagus, has been hindered by
lack of proper planning and technical supervision. Under the project, both
on-farm development and adequate modern facilities would be financed with
-        the object of integrating and diversifying the existing fruit and vegetable
industry.
1.03      IBRD/IDA have financed five agricultural projects (about US$117
million) and four loans for industrial development (US$95.0 million). The
proposed loan would be the first for integrated agro-industrial development
in Korea.
1.04      The project was prepared by the Agriculture and Fishery
Development Corporation (AFDC), an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fishery (MAF), responsible for agro-industries development. AFDC
was assisted by an IBRD preparation mission which visited Korea in July 1973.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. S. Bhatia, K. Arichandran (IBRD), and Messrs. F. Roach, J. Gillentine
and G. Kuhn (consultants) which visited Korea in October/November 1973.
II. BACKGROUND
A.  The Economy -/
2.01      Korea's recent economic performance has been impressive.  During
1963-73, GNP growth averaged 10% annually, per capita annual income in real
1/   See "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic of Korea",
IBRD Report No. 332-K0, February 20, 1974.



-2-
terms doubled over the same period to US$370. The manufacturing sector
grew at an average rate of 20% in the last decade and its share in GNP
more than doubled, from 13% to 28%. The agricultural sector grew at an
average annual rate of 4%; its share in GNP declined from 40% to 23%
between 1963-1973. Total agricultural employment has declined since the
late 1960s, but still accounts for 48% of all employment.
2.02      Population in 1973 was 33 million.  The growth rate has declined
from 3% annually in the early 1960s to less than 2% in 1973 and urbanization
has been rapid. Half the population now lives in urban areas. The major
urban centers of Seoul and Busan absorbed about 60% of total population
growth in the 1960s. During the same period the economic and social dis-
parities between urban and rural population have widened. The average urban
income is now double that of the average rural worker.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Korea, a mountainous country, has a total area of 10 million ha,
of which 70% is under forest. Of 2.3 million ha of cultivated land, 60%
is irrigated and the rest, dry upland. There are 2.5 million farm households
whose average land holding is about 1 ha (0.5 ha irrigated). These holdings
comprise several small, scattered plots, averaging about 0.2 ha, rendering
mechanization difficult.  Since the 1950 land reforms, almost all farms are             _
owner-operated. Korean farmers are literate, industrious and enterprising.
2.04      Irrigation of about one million ha combined with mild winters
permit increased land use by double cropping in the south. Mbst of this
land is alluvial and lies along river basins, valleys and coastal margins.
High uplands have potential for orchard development. However, in the
northern part of the country, winters are severe which limits agricul-
tural activity to a single paddy crop. Production of the major crops,
rice and barley, has been increasing at 2.5% annually, higher than
population growth, but rising incomes and consumption have led to
increased imports of foodgrains from US$40 M in 1962 to US$518 M in 1973.
Agricultural exports including fisheries, in the same period, increased
from US$25 M to US$315 M.
2.05:     The major objective of the Third Five Year Plan (1972-76) are to
expand agricultural production, increase labor productivity and raise rural
living standards. The Plan is now under review to take account of the new
world energy situation; while absolute Plan allocations are likely to be cut,
the relative priority of agriculture in the Plan is not likely to be challenged.
The Plan aims at crop diversification to increase farmers' income; the ex-
pansion of exports of processed agricultural products and increased pro-
duction of nutritionally superior foods (fruits and vegetables) to satisfy
the rapidly increasing domestic demand. The modernization and expansion
1/   See "Agricultural Sector Survey, Republic of Korea", Volume I, Report No.
213a-IBRD, November 13, 1973.



3
of an integrated fruit and vegetable industry (combining production and
processing) could make an effective contribution towards achieving these
goals.
III. FRUIT AND VEGETABLE INDUSTRY
3.01      The fruit and vegetable industry, less than 10 years old, is
spread over the eastern, western and southern parts of the country where
horticultural production is concentrated for climatic reasons. The in-
dustry employs about 10,000 people. Both production and processing of
horticultural crops is labor intensive; while rice production requires
about 1,800 man hours/ha for a single crop, mushroom production, for example,
needs about 3,00 maia hours/ha per crop. In 1965, the industry contributed
less than US$T-9 -rab-out 5% of total agricultural exports, excluding fisheries,
but in 1972 its contribution had increased to US$13 M or 20% of total agri-
cultural exports. Most of the production is exported in canned form; mush-
rooms and peaches account for almost all the production. Since 1973, some
frozen strawberries and spinach have also been produced for export on a very
modest scale. The Government plan calls for modernization, integration and
diversification of an industry which is well suited to Korea's land and labor
resources.
_        3.02      Under the IDA Agricultural Credit Project (335-K0), there is pro-
vision for expansion and modernization of on-farm production of apples, pears,
peaches, grapes, sericulture, livestock and mushrooms. However, due to lack
of technical capabilities of NACF, the executing agency for the project, no
financing will be made available for modernization of mushroom houses.
Efforts will be concentrated on orchard, sericulture and livestock development.
The resulting incremental orchard production, particularly peaches, will pro-
vide a significant source of raw materials for processing facilities to be
expanded and modernized under the proposed p=oject.
A. Production
3.03      Mushrooms (Annex 1):  Mushrooms are grown under especially erected
houses, in beds supported by iron poles. (There is presently one under-
ground, air-conditioned house owned by AFDC which is not functioning
effectively because of serious technical problems). These houses, constructed
on idle land, are primitive, unsanitary and inadequately heated, adversely
affecting quality and yield. Average yield is about 18 kg/m2 which could
be increased by at least 50% with modern production facilities. Unless un-
sanitary conditions are eliminated, the danger of an epidemic wiping out
the industry will remain. (This happened in the Republic of China in 1968-69).
Korea has suitable climate to produce two crops a year (the Republic of China
.        can produce only one crop a year).  The total bed area in 1972 was about
200 ha, of which about 55% was owned by individual farmers (averaging 0.1 ha
each) and the rest by canneries. In 1972, production of fresh mushrooms



-4-
was 19,000 tons. In recent years, farmers have been organizing into associa-
tions of 5-6 farmers to share facilities such as boilers which are un-
economical for smaller units. Each member is responsible for his own
production and marketing. The number of mushroom farmers declined from 1,000
in 1969 to about 700 in 1973. Many farmers sold their growing facilities
to canneries due to poor profits resulting from inadequate facilities. The
Government's efforts to modernize private farmers' mushroom facilities have
not been very effective due to lack of funds.
3.04      Shiitake (Annex 2):  Shiitake (oak mushrooms), a highly labor
intensive crop, is cultivated in mountain areas by implanting spawn in oak
logs. Korea has an ideal climate for its production, an adequate log
supply and cheap labor. Production has increased from about 100 tons in
1967 to more than 260 tons in 1972, of which all was exported. About R
350 farmers were cultivating shiitake in 1973. Since shiitake is exported
only in dried form, adequate drying facilities are essential. The 30
existing drying facilities are extremely primitive, adversely affecting the
quality and price of the finished product. In mountain areas, farm incomes
are low and shiitake cultivation can provide significant cash income to
farmers.
3.05      Asparagus (Annex 3):  This is also an extremely labor intensive
crop which can be grown on sandy loams and river banks, land often not
utilized at present.  Korea has a suitable climate and  it is estimated that            _
about 2,000 ha could be brought under this crop. Earlier attempts to en-
courage asparagus production failed due to lack of adequate processing                    W
facilities, scarcity of healthy, virus-free crowns and poor technical
supervision. Since 1972, AFDC has organized farmers to cultivate asparagus
on about 30 ha in Gumi and Buyeo.. AFDC provides raw material (including
crowns) and working capital. Progress so far has been satisfactory and
encouraging. Future development however, should be on a limited scale
until the most suitable varieties are determined and disease-control methods
have been firmly established; emphasis should be placed on training ex-
tension staff and improving research concerning the production of this crop.
3.06      Strawberries (Annex 4):  At present only local varieties are
grown on paddy fields as a second crop. These varieties are not suitable
for processing and their outlets are limited to the fresh market subject to
large price fluctuations. In 1972/73 AFDC, through contract farmers, planted
40 ha in Hayang and Muan under a variety suitable for processing.  Yields so
far are about 7 tons/ha which could be increased to about 15-18 tons/ha.
For future expansion, greater attention should be placed on the selection
of varieties, the production of virus-free runners and adequate processing
facilities. Efforts should be made to cultivate this crop on dry lands,
which at present provide very low incomes to farmers.
3.07      Spinach:  This labor-intensive crop is grown only on dry land
all year round (three crops annually), throughout the south and southwest
of Korea. Cultivation practices and yields (2 tons/ha) are satisfactory.
HIowever, production is limited due to lack of market outlets.  At present,
it is mainly sold fresh.  During the peak season, prices (in 1973) declined
from Won 50/kg to Won 30/kg, discouraging many potential producers.



5
3.08      In 1973, AFDC received a large order (460 tons) for frozen
spinach from Japan and has contracted with farmers to grow it at a fixed
price, Won 50/kg, throughout the year. So far, this first effort to produce
frozen spinach f'or export has been very successful; about 150 farmers have
brought idle land into cultivation. Processing of spinach for export can
be undertaken along with other commodities such as strawberries, and since
it is produced over much of the year, processing plants would be better able
to utilize their facilities.
3.09      Peaches:  Korea is one of the few countries producing white
peaches, a variety in great demand in canned form in Japan and other
countries in the Far East and Europe. On-farm production, involving more
than 3,000 farmers, has increased from about 55,000 tons in 1965 to about
100,000 tons in 1972. IDA Credit 335-Ko is presently financing expansion
and modernization of about 600 ha of peaches which is expected to produce a
further 20,000 tons annually. Expanded canning facilities, at present
limited, could provide a profitable export outlet for incremental production.
B.  Processing
3.10      Canning (Annex 5):  At present there are 54 canneries, four owned
by AFDC and the rest by private entrepreneurs.  Most of these canneries,
Wwhich are scattered throughout the country, produce canned mushrooms.  About
20 also process peaches and vegetables. The majority are small, uneconomic,
equipped with outdated and unsanitary equipment and follow inefficient
processing practices. The quality control system is inadequate. Con-
sequently the susceptibility of Korean canned products to botulism and
other types of spoilage is high. Since all canned products are presently
exported, the modernization of canneries to meet international hygiene
standards is mandatory. Modernization would also improve quality and lower
production costs, thereby increasing Korea's competitiveness in world trade.
Efforts to modernize the canneries have been hampered by lack of funds.
3.11      Freezing (Annex 5):  The freezing of fruit and vegetables is a
very recent development in Korea.  In 1973, there were three facilities
freezing strawberries and spinach, using second hand equipment which is
outdated, and producing only block frozen foods.  Quality is inferior and
production costs are high. In 1973, only about 45 tons of frozen strawberries
were produced and 460 tons of frozen spinach. To develop the industry,
- odern facilities with improved freezing systems, such as Individual Quick
Freezing (IQF), are required. Sound technical assistance, at present
lacking, needs to be developed.
3.12      Can Production and Packaging Industries:  There are three can
manufacturing companies, all privately owned; existing capacity is
adequate to meet present and future needs. The quality of the cans is
.        controlled by the National Industrial Research Institute and is satisfactory.
Raw tinplate, imported from Japan, is finished in Korea.  Between 1972/73,
can prices increased by about 20%. The packaging industry (manufacture of



-6-
cartons, lithograph printing on cans, printing of labels, etc) is fairly
advanced and competitive.
C. Institutions
3.13      AFDC (Annex 6):  The Agriculture and Fishery Development Corpora-
tion (AFDC), a government invested agency under the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fishery (MAF), responsible for agro-industry development, was estab-
lished in 1967. It provides long and short-term loans to processors engaged
in livestock production, fruit, vegetable and silk processing, marine culture,
can manufacturers, etc. AFDC owns five manufacturing companies engaged
in food and silk processing.  In addition AFDC4.provides technical assistance
to processors and undertakes export marketing of horticultural products
(canned fruits and vegetables, silk, etc.). Since 1972/73, AFDC, on behalf
of MAF, has been responsible for providing working capital and technical
assistance to farmers in developing new labor-intensive crops, such as aspara-
gus, strawberries, etc. on a very modest scale. AFDC's technical staff
prepares information on the selected crop (farm budgets, etc.) which is
disseminated to farmers. Once a farmer has expressed interest, his farm
is visited by AFDC staff who make their final decision, taking into account
the soil suitability, the technical competence of the farmer, and credit
needs, etc.                                                                             _
3.14      NACF:  the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation, an agency
of MAF, was established in 1961 and is the apex organization of the agricultural
cooperative structure in Korea. Its membership consists of 140 Kua coopera-
tives and about 154 special cooperatives of orchard growers and livestock
farmers. The .140 Kun cooperatives, with about 400 branches, constitute the
key tier of the cooperative structure. NACF helps implement Government
policies by undertaking supply, marketing and other functionts, such as life
insurance, etc., in addition to credit. Some of these activities are sub-
sidized. The capital base of NACF is weak in relation to its expanding
operations and its profits have been meagre. Under IDA Credit (335-KO), its
organization and accounting system are to be studied by management consultants
as a preliminary step to improvement of cost accounting and-management in-
formation systems.
3.15      UNDP/FPC:  The Food Processing Center, a part of AFDC, was
established two years ago and financed by the Government and UNDP. Its
primary function is to improve technical standards of agro-industries. However,
its terms of reference are too broad, comprising every aspect of agro-industry
(candy production, bakeries, can manufacture, etc.). It also lacks well-trained,
experienced and adequate staff and depends overly upon short-term consultants
for specific assignments.
3.16      Quality Control:  The National Agricultural Products Inspection
Office (NAPIO), an agency of MAF and the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs (MHSA) are responsible for regulating the quality and safety of
canned products.  MHSA is primarily responsible for the domestic market



7
and NAPIO for exports. However only one set of standards is applied, which
is less stringent than that of major importing countries. Efforts are
underway to improve and revise quality control regulations to bring these
in line with international requirements.
3.17      Research and Training (Annex 7):  The Horticultural Experimental
Station at Suweon (SHES), an agency of the MAF, is responsible for undertaking
research in different aspects of horticultural production (testing of new
varieties, improving yields, pest and disease control, etc.). The staff is
well-trained and qualified, but due to the lack of equipment and materials,
its effectiveness has been somewhat hindered. At present there is no
university in Korea offering courses in Food Technology and the lack of such
expertise is a major handicap to the industry.
D. Credit
3.18      The Government is the principal scurce of medium and short-term
financing for agricultural development.  However, funds available for
investment in agro-industries are limited (estimated at not more than
$400,000 in 1973). A comprehensive survey by AFDC in 1973 indicated that
the unsatisfied credit demand from private entrepreneurs for agro-industries
development was very high.  Prevailing Government interest rate for medium
and long-term investments in agricultural production is 9%. However,
interest rates for export-oriented agro-industries (which receive preferential
rates) were reduced from 8% to 6% in August, 1972.
E. Marketing
3.19      The major markets for Korean processed agricultural products are
the US (canned mushrooms), Japan (canned peaches and asparagus, frozen
strawberries and spinach, and shiitake), and Europe (canned mushrooms, asparagus
and peaches). Annex 8 examines this aspect in detail.
3.20      AFDC, NACF and the private sector are engaged in export marketing.
AFDC and NACF together export about 80% of canned mushrooms. However, the
private sector is gradually increasing its role in export marketing. NACF
is primarily an institution for providing agricultural credit and lacks
both experience and expertise required for export marketing. The Government
is currently considering appointing AFDC as the only Government agency
handling processed agricultural exports. This would strengthen export mar-
keting. There is no institution responsible for providing marketing informa-
tion and although the private sector's performance has been encouraging, its
efforts have been hampered by lack of market knowledge. AFDC is considering
establishing branches in the US, Europe and the UK to coliect market
intelligence and handle other export matters.
3.21      In Korea, farmers producing horticultural commodities such as
mushrooms enter into long-term contracts with canneries, whereby the



-8-~~
latter purchase their entire production. Prices are determined annually
by the canneries, in consultation with the farmers. Canneries also advance
to farmers some percentage of the projected sales proceeds and provide them
with technical assistance. Similarly, major exporting agencies, such as
AFDC, to secure production, advance to canneries some percentage of the
projected sales proceeds which assist canneries to meet their short-term
capital requirements. This system has proved satisfactory to both farmers
and canneries and is expected to continue under the project.
3.22      Transportation:  The existing road network in Korea is adequate
to meet the future expansion of the fruit and vegetable industry. About
20 international haulage companies are able to provide frequent, efficient
and economic transportation services. There is no shortage of refrigerated
trucks. Frequent and fast refrigerated and nonrefrigerated cargo services
link Korean ports to Japan and other major markets. There are more than
30 licensed brokers providing handling and other services to exporters at
a very low cost (about 2% of total export value). Export facilities at
Busan, Korea's major harbor, are reasonably adequate and being modernized
under an IBRD-financed project (Loan 91 7-KO).
3.23      Tariffs:  The present duties charged by major importing countries
are not prohibitive. Tariffs for mushrooms are: the Federal Republic of
Germany (23%), Japan (25%), Canada (12%) and the US (3.2 cents per lb plus
10% ad valorem, equivalent to about 15%).  Import duties for canned                    A
asparagus range from 12% - 20%.  Japanese import duties on strawberries                 _
are rather high, 35%, but Japan may accord a preferential rate for frozen
strawberries from developing countries in line with a recent UNCTAD
resolution.
3.24      Import Regulations:  The recent increase in cases of botulism
in canned products has forced importing countries to enforce extremely
strict regulations to ensure product safety. In July 1973, the US Food
and Drug Administration, for example, introduced new regulations requiring
that manufacturing, processing and packing facilities of exporters be examined
and licensed by one of their authorized employees. Failure to comply or
to meet the minimum hygiene requirements results in banning of imports
from that company. Canning facilities in Korea, cannot at present meet
these standards without major modernization. The full impact of these
new regulations will not be felt until later this year.
F. Project Formulation
3.25      Both production and processing of horticultural commodities in
Korea are presently constrained by the lack of: adequate credit; technical
assistance: and planning and coordination between production and processing.
Consequently Korea has not been able to exploit its advantages (suitable
climate, soils and cheap labor) in developing this industry for the export
market.  The project is designed specifically to meet these problems; loans
would be made available to meet credit demand; modern equipment and technical



-9-
assistance would be provided to improve the quality and efficiency of pro-
cessing operations; and to coordinate production and processing, farmers and
processors would enter into agreements whereby the processors would procure
the farmers' production at mutually determined prices. This would ensure
a sure market outlet for farmers and an adequate supply of raw materials for
processors.
3.26      The size of individual sub-projects (both on-farm and processing
development) has been determined primarily by Korea's market prospects
in international trade. The project would be primarily located in the
southern part of the country (see map number IBRD 10943), where year-round
production of horticultural crops is feasible and where sufficient suitable
land is available. The project area is well-connected by a good road network
to main urban centers and harbors.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
4.01      The commodities selected under the project are labor-intensive,
extremely suitable to the soil conditions and climate and export prospects
are favorable.  These commodities would not displace any paddy production.
They would benefit rice farmers by providing them with cash income during
the off-season. By selecting a combination of different crops, multiproduct
processing would ensure optimum utilization of processing facilities and
the work force. Modern equipment and techniques would enhance the industry's
competitiveness and improve sanitary conditions. On-farm development of
project crops, with the exception of mushrooms, would utilize no energy;
mushroom growing houses would require some oil for heating, but total
requirements would not be very significant. The processing facilities would
rely primarily on electricity generated by hydro-electric plants. Thus the
current energy shortage would not significantly affect the implementation of
the project. The project would result in increased farm incomes, rural
employment and export earnings.
4.02      Over a four year investment period, the project would comprise:
(a)  development and modernization of crop production:  about 435 ha
of asparagus and 24,000 m3 of shiitake production would be
developed. About 40 ha of mushroom houses would be modernized.
Healthy, virus-free strawberry runners would be produced for
planting over 300 ha. About 2,500 ha would be developed
under spinach.
(b)  modernization of canneries:  22 canneries processing only
mushrooms and 20 integrated canneries processing peaches/
mushrooms/chestnuts, etc. would be modernized. In addition,
four canneries, at present engaged in processing other vegetables,
would be equipped to process asparagus.



- 10 -
w
(c)  diversi      o       re.ri   acatiities: two new freezing
plants with IQF system would be constructed and one exist-
ing freezing plant would be modernized. A maximum of seven
new drying facilities for shiitake would be established.
(d)  technical assistance:  three experts in asparagus and strawberry
production and two in canning operations would be trained abroad,
and an international management consulting firm would review and
improve AFDC's accounting and financial information system.  A
Project Manager, who would be recruited internationally, would
be financed for two years. Two consultants for on-farm develop-
ment of asparagus and strawberries would also be financed.
Details of modernization of canning facilities and freezing plants and
investment costs are given in Annexes 9 and 10 respectively.
B. Detailed Features
Development and Xodernization of Crop Production
4.03      M1ushrooms:  Mushroom houses, excluding underground houses, with
a total area of 40 ha (120,000 pyong) would be modernized over four years.             A
These houses would be located in major rice-producing areas (east, west                 w
and southern parts of the country).  Total modernization cost-would be
Won 1 billion (US$2.5 M). The major investment items would be boilers,
replacement of iron poles, exhaust fans, concreting of floors and improved
drainage systems. Of the facilities to be modernized, about 85% would be
owned by individual farmers and the remaining 15% would be owned by mushroom
canneries. Farmers owning 400 pyongs (0.13 ha) or less of mushroom houses
would be eligible to participate. Assurances to this effect were obtained.
The total number of sub-borrowers would be about 350. The modernization
of mushroom canneries would provide additional capacity to process
incremental production. Since all production is contracted in advance
by processors and the processors' own growing houses are limited by Government
regulation (Annex 1, para 9), there would be no difficulty in marketing
incremental production. Processors would also advance some percentage of
projected sales proceeds to farmers to meet their working capital require-
ments during the growing period.
4.04      Shiitake:  Over three years, shiitake cultivation would be
developed on about 24,000 m3 of oak logs in the provinces of Gang Weon and
Chung Bug, both of which have a sufficient supply of the best variety of
oak logs. Total development cost (for a two-year growing period) would be
Won 408 M (US$1.0 M); major investment items would be oak logs, tools,
sheds, fertilizer and sprinklers for water distribution. Loans would be
made to farmers for new development of a maximum of 100 m3 of oak logs;
however, the total holdling of each sub-borrower, after project participation,
would not exceed 200 m3 of oak logs. Assurances to this effect were obtained.
About 240 farmers would participate. AFDC would ensure that adequate drying



- 11 -
facilities exist near production areas, since shiitake is exported only in
dried form.
4.05      Asparagus:  Over four years, about 435 ha would be brought under
asparagus cultivation in three locations: Gumi, Buyeo and Wanju which
have the most suitable soil conditions and climate. Assurances were obtained
that asparagus cultivation would be undertaken through contract farmers
(farmers with average holdings of 2 ha sandy loam soil and some experience
in horticultural production would be selected by AFDC to cultivate the crop
on their own land, following technical advice provided by AFDC) in the above-
mentioned three locations only. AFDC would also ensure that adequate pro-
cessing facilities exist as a market outlet for incremental production. About
220 farmers would participate.  Total development cost (for a two-year grow-
ing period) would be Won 213 M (US$0.5 M); major investment items would be
virus-free healthy crowns, spray materials, fertilizers, compost and tools.
4.06      Strawberries:  The major investment item would be labor cost.
Over three years, AFDC, through contract farmers, would develop 300 ha
(mainly dry land) under improved varieties of strawberries in four locations:
Muan, Namji, Gimhae and Hayang which have the best soil conditions and
climate for the production of this crop. About 1,500 farmers, with average
holdings of 0.2 ha of strawberries, would participate. The project would
finance a Propagation Center at the SHES. It would provide healthy, virus-free
strawberry runners to AFDC for distribution to farmers for new planting.
Assurances were obtained that construction of this Center would be completed
within three months after the loan became effective.  AFDC would ensure that
two freezing plants to be constructed under the project would procure
incremental production (3,000 ton) of the participating farmers.
4.07      Spinach:  No long-term financing is required for on-farm develop-
ment, since the only requirements are labor and seeds and three crops are
produced annually. Assurances were obtained that under AFDC's supervision,
farmers would grow spinach on about 2,500 ha in the Mogpo and Muan areas
(where ideal cultivation conditions exist) under contracts with the project
freezing plants (para 4.11). About 2,500 farmers would participate.
Modernization of Canneries
4.08      Mushroom Canneries:  22 existing canneries, including four owned
by AFDC, of varying sizes and conditions, processing only mushrooms, would
be modernized over three years. These would be scattered throughout the
east, west and south of the country. Total modernization costs would be
Won 598 M (US$1.5 M). Major investment items would include: new retorts
and monitoring control systems, cold storage rooms, washing systems, stainless
steel equipment, exhaust fans, seamers, window screening and installation
of concrete floors with proper drainage. Modernization would reduce the
loss rate (from 8% to 3%), increase canned pound yield (from 55% to 60%)
and increase capacity utilization from 75% to 80%. As a result, higher value
products would be produced (more Grade A than Grade B).



- 12-
4.09      Integrated Canneries:  20 existing privately owned integrated                 _
canneries, processing peaches, mushrooms, chestnuts and other vegetables,
would be modernized over three years. Total modernization cost would be
about Won 2.2 billion (US$5.4 M). Modernization would be similar to that
for mushroom canneries but would include a few additional items such as
vacuum syrupers, etc. Many items such as graders, sorters, trimmers,
seamers, etc. would be utilized for canning both peaches and mushrooms.
Without an integrated approach, the cost of installation of peach canning
lines alone would be prohibitive. Modernization would ensure that both
peaches and mushrooms would be processed in the most hygienic conditions
and the quality of the products would be improved.  Assurances were obtaiiied
that loans to integrated canning facilities would not be made for mushroom
operations alone.
4.10      Asparagus Canning:  Four privately owned existing canneries with
low acid sterilizing systems (at present processing other vegetables),
located in the proposed production areas (para 4.05), would be equipped to
process asparagus produced under the project. Total cost would be Won 55 M
(US$0.14 M). The daily capacity of each of these lines would be 10 tons of
fresh asparagus. Major items and equipment to be financed would be similar
to those for mushrooms. Since asparagus is a low acid food, susceptible to
botulism, the facilities, equipment and sanitary standards would be similar
to those for mushrooms.
4.11      Freezing Facilities:  Two new freezing plants would be established
in the Muan and Gimhae areas over three years and would be owned by private
entrepreneurs. One existing privately owned freezing plant in Hayang would
be modernized. Freezing plants would be equipped with IQF system and would
freeze strawberries and spinach. Daily capacity of each plant would be
19 tons for strawberries and 16 tons for spinach. Total investment cost
would be Won 1.1 billion (US$2.75 M). Since modern freezing activities
would be introduced for the first time in Korea, close supervision and
extensive technical assistance would be necessary. These facilities would
be prohibited from processing meat and fishery products also, since this is
contrary to international hygiene requirements.
4.12      Shiitake Drying:  New drying facilities would be established over
three years and would be located close to the project production areas
(para 4.04). Between two and seven facilities would be constructed. The
exact number would be determined during sub-appraisal by the Project Unit.
Assurances were obtained that AFDC would submit to IERD for its review and
approval details of the design and financial viability of each of the new
facilities, which would be owned by individual shiitake farmers, or by
groups of farmers in partnership. The dryers would be designed to utilize
the counter-flow principle, resulting in improved project quality and a
reduction in loss rate (from the present 10% to 3%). Total investment cost
would be Won 29.0 M (US$0.07 M).
4.13      Technical Assistance:  Major items would be:
(a)  Training:  one virologist from the SHES would be trained
abroad for 3-4 months in strawberry propagation
techniques;



- 13 -
two agronomists from the Project Unit, one
specializing in strawberries and the other in
asparagus cultivation would be trained abroad
for 3-4 months each;
two processing experts would be trained abroad in
modern canning and freezing operations for a period
of 4-6 months;
50 shiitake farmers out of those participating
under the project would be trained in Seoul
in cultivation and drying practices for 2-3 weeks
by the Project Unit and the Federation of Forestry;
the processors selected under the project would be
trained in modern techniques, hygiene requirements
and canning practices by the Project Unit. The
training program would be designed and supervised
by the Project Manager.  The Project Unit would also
prepare a simple canning and freezing manual to be
distributed to processors.
(b) Suweon Horticultural Experimental Station (SHES): AFDC
_                  would enter into an agreement with SHES to provide technical
assistance and supervision for on-farm development of
strawberries and asparagus. Technical periodicals and
research materials would be imported to keep its staff informed
of recent developments in their fields.
(c) Vehicles: Two jeeps would be provided to the Project Unit,
and would.be used by them and the SHES.
(d) Consultants: Two consultants would be financed for two
months per year for two years; one specialized in
strawberries and the other in asparagus cultivation. The
asparagus consultant would be hired to supervise the initial
selection of sub-borrowers and assist in determining the
locations for asparagus production. The strawberry consultant
would assist the operation of the Propagation Center and
would also assist the Project Unit in selecting the location
and sub-borrowers for strawberry cultivation. Both these
consultants would be selected subject to IBRD agreement
on their qualifications and terms of reference.
(e) Project Manager would be financed for two years and would
be recruited internationally. He would be experienced in
modern canning and freezing operations.
(f)  Study:  A study would be undertaken by an international
consulting firm to review and improve the accounting and



- 14 -
financial management information system of AFDC (para 5.02).
This study would be completed within 12 months after the
loan became effective. The terms of reference for the
study are presented in Annex 11.
4.14      Assurances were obtained that the training would be provided as
specified in para 4.13 (a). The signing of the agreement between AFDC and
SHES and the hiring of the asparagus consultant would be conditions of
effec;iveness. Assurances were also obtained that the proposed study of
AFDC's accounting and financial management systems (para 4.13(f)) would be
undertaken.
C. Project Phasing
4.15      With the exception of on-farm development of mushrooms and asparagus,
the project would be implemented over three years. In determining the
phasing, allowance has been made for the training required for Project Unit
staff and for ensuring that production and processing facilities are
developed in a vertically integrated pattern. Project implementation would
accelerate in the third year, by which time Project Unit staff should have
gained enough experience in technical, appraisal and supervision procedures.
Assurances were obtained that the phasing proposed in Schedule A would be
substantially followed.                                                                  W
D. Cost Estimates
4.16      The total project cost is estimated at Won 8.0 billion (US$20.0 M),
of which the foreign exchange component, including contingencies, is about
Won 5.2 billion (US$13.0 M) or about 65%. The foreign exchange component
includes both direct (equipment and technical assistance) and indirect
(raw material) costs. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 10 and
are summarized below. These estimates are based on October, 1973, prices.
Cost estimates for imported items are based on cif prices. A physical con-
tingency of 10% per annum has been added to cover design changes in equip-
ment and facilities. A 23% price contingency is included for expected price
increases on both local and foreign cost items.



- 15 -
W                                                                                   Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
----Won Million ------   -----US$ Million----- 
I. On-Farm Develop-
ment
Mushrooms        401       601  1,002    1.00    1.50    2.50
Shiitake         163       245    408    0.41    0.61    1.02
Asparagus         85       128    213    0.21    0.32    0.53
Sub-Total        649       974  1,623    1.62    2.43    4.05         60
II. Processing
Mushrooms        204       394    598    0.51    0.99    1.50
Peaches &
Mushrooms        737    1,411  2,148    1.85    3.53    5.38
Asparagus         19        36     55    0.05    0.09    0.14
Freezing         375       726  1,101    0.94    1.81    2.75
Shiitake-Drying  10         19     29    0.02    0.05    0.07
Sub-Total      1,345    2,586  3,931    3.37    6.47    9.84         66
III. Technical
Assistance         17       151    168    0.04    0.38    0.42         90
Sub-Total
(I to III)    2,011    3,711  5,722    5.03    9.28   14.31
IV. Contingencies
Physical (13%)   271        481    752    0.68    1.20    1.88
Price (23%)       523    1,003  1,526    1.29    2.52    3.81
Total Project Cost    2,805    5,195  8,000    7.00   13.00   20.00            65
E. Financing
4.17      The project would be financed as follows:
Total                           Total
sub-                Project   Sub-                   Project
borrower  AFDC  IBR. Cost       borrower AFDC  IBRD   Cost
---------Won Million--------  -----------US$ Million------
I. On-Farm
Development
Mushrooms         300   300      900  1,500    0.75    0.75  2.25    3.75
Shiitake           82   137      329    548    0.21    0.34  0.82    1.37
Asparagus          41    68      164    273    0.10    0.17  0.41    0.68
Sub-Total         423   505   1,393  2,321    1.06    1.26  3.48    5.80
II. Processing
Mushrooms         164   112      543    819    0.41    0.27  1.37    2.05
Peaches & Mush-
rooms            611   427   2,029  3,067    1.52    1.07  5.08    7.67
Asparagus          15    10       50      75    0.04    0.03  0.12    0.19
Freezing          298   207      985  1,490    0.74    0.52  2.46    3.72
Shiitake-Drying    6       8      26      40    0.01    0.02  0.07    0.10
Sub-Total       1,094   764   3,633  5,491    2.72    1.91  9.10   13.73
III.  Technical
Assistance         -      19     169    188      -       0.05  0.42    0.47
Total Project
Cost           1,517 1,288   5,195  8,000    3.78    3.22 13.00   20.00



- 16 -
4.18      AFDC would contribute 16% of total project cost.  Sub-borrowers
would contribute from their own resources, 18% of total costs in the case
of on-farm development and 20% for modernization of processing facilities.
Assurances were obtained that the contributions by the sub-borrowers and AFDC
would not fall below the levels indicated above.
4.19      The IBRD loan, US$13.0 M (65% of the total project cost) would be
made directly to AFDC for a term of 20 years, with five years grace, at the
prevailing interest rate and would be guaranteed by Government. Assuranctes
were obtained that Government would provide AFDC with Won 1.288 M (US$3.2. M)
to invest under the project over four years, as follows: Won 275 M in 1974,
about Won 450 M in 1975, about Won 500 M in 1976 and about Won 63 M in
1977. Assurances were also obtained that the initial transfer of Won 275 M
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The terms of the Government
loan to AFDC would be eight years including three years grace at an
annual interest rate of 9%.
4.20      AFDC would bear the foreign exchange risk on sub-loans to farmers,
while the processors would bear such risks themselves, since their in-
cremental production resulting from the project would be sold in foreign
currencies. AFDC would provide seasonal and other short-term loans to
sub-borrowers at prevailing interest rates to ensure successful implementa-
tion of the project.  AFDC would reinvest repayment proceeds for the further            _
development of agro-industries in Korea.
F. Procurement
4.21      Two new freezing plants (each costing about US$1.0 M) and equipment
for modernization of one freezing plant (US$0.6 M) would be procured by the
sub-borrower through ICB according to IBRD's Guidelines, under AFDC super-
vision. The two new freezing plants would be procured under turnkey contracts
(civil works, equipment, installation and trial running) since these facili-
ties need to be integrated units. Specifications and tender documents for
the above sub-projects would be submitted to IBRD for review and approval
before issuance. Bids would be compared on the basis of cif prices, and
domestic manufacturers would have a 15% margin of preference or the actual
duty, whichever is less. The bid awards would also be subject to IBRD review
and approval. The management consultants to review AFDC's accounting and
financial information system would be selected in accordance with IBRD's
Guidelines for Selection of Consultants.
4.22      Items for on-farm development would be boilers, iron poles, cement,
fertilizer, spraying materials, exhaust fans, logs, etc., costing less than
US$50,000 per contract. There would be large variations in the requirements
of sub-borrowers, who would be widely scattered in time and space; hence
bulking of items would not be practical. All these items are domestically
produced, most of them from imported materials.  Sufficient suppliers exist
to ensure healthy competition in obtaining them, and quality is satisfactory.
Sub-borrowers would procure all inputs directly from suppliers once require-
ments had been approved by the Project Unit. Similarly, since equipment



- 17 -
w
requirements for mushrooms, peaches and asparagus canneries would differ
widely between sub-borrowers, bulking would not: be possible (less than
US$50,000 per contract), and sub-borrowers would procure them through
commercial channels. International manufacturers of equipment are well
represented in Korea and provide adequate servicing facilities. Construction
of the Propagation Center, equipment and vehicles for the Project Unit would
be procured by AFDC locally.
4.23      New shiitake drying facilities would be procured by sub-borrowers
according to local competitive bidding procedures, satisfactory to IBRD,
under the supervision of AFDC.  There are sufficient domestic suppliers
available to provide this type of equipment and quality of the equipment is
satisfactory. IBRD would review specification and tender documents and
final bid awards.
4.24      Assurances were obtained that the procurement procedures in paras
4.21-4.23 would be followed.
G. Disbursement
4.25      The IBRD loan would be disbursed against:
(a)  60% of the total cost for on-farm development;
(b) 66% of total cost for processing facilities; and
(c) 90% of the total cost for technical assistance.
Requests for disbursement would be accompanied by AFDC's documented statement
of expenditures. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 12.
Undisbursed funds resulting from cost savings would be available for additional
lending to agro-industries.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Administration
AFDC
5.01      AFDC would be responsible for project implementation.  It is
headed by a President, appointed by the President of the Republic.  There
is an Executive Vice-President, three Vice-Presidents and an Auditor who,
along with the President of the Corporation, form the Board of Directors (Annex 6).
It has a staff of 180, and is divided into eight departments: development
planning, emergency planning, business, trade, general affairs, audit, food
processing and production.  The staff, comprising agronomists, credit,
marketing and processing experts, is experienced but requires further training,
particularly in processing practices and appraisal procedures (para 4.13(a)).



-n 18 -
5.02      AFDC's total funds as of September, 1973, were Won 15 billion                W
(US$37.5 M) made up of issued capital (Won 10 billion - US$25 M) and loans
(Won 5 billion - US$12.5 M). About 70% of AFDC's funds was tied up in
subsidiaries and affiliates; Won 3.5 billion (US$8.8 M) as equity and
Won 7 billion (US$17.5 M) in loans. In addition, Won 2 billion (US$5.0 M)
has been lent to processors and farmers engaged in agro-industries and fish-
ery production. In 1972, AFDC's net income was Won 752 M (US$1.9 M), which
is satisfactory considering its primary role as a development agency. Ex-
ports have become its major source of revenue, contributing about 80% of
total income. The present accounting and financial management system is
weak and requires improvement. The collection of financial data is inade-
quate and no long term financial projections are made. In addition, the
accounting functions are generally handled by more than one department
resulting in weak financial controls. A study would be undertaken by a
management consulting firm to review and improve AFDC's accounting and
financial management information system (para 4.13(f); Annex 11).
Project Unit
5.03      Under the direct supervision of the Vice-President for the
Development Department a Project Unit would be established, headed by a
Manager, who would be recruited internationally, and who would be responsible
for technical appraisal, supervision and training.   His qualifications and
terms of reference are presented in Annex 13.  He would assist the Unit for
about two years and his appointment, to be agreed by the IBRD, would be a
condition of effectiveness.  Assurances were obtained to this effect.                  W
5.04      The Project Unit would be divided into three Sections:  Technical,
Appraisal, and Marketing, and would be staffed as follows: (a) Technical: a
minimum of eight experts in canning operations and freezing and for on-farm
development of mushrooms, shiitake, strawberries and asparagus; (b) Appraisal:
a minimum of four experts specializing in financial analysis, credit management
and economics; and (c) Marketing: a minimum of three to evaluate market
prospects and information.
5.05      Many of the staff members responsible for identifying and preparing
this project are employed by AFDC. They should be assigned to the-Project
Unit full-time. It is expected that one economist and one statistician
would be hired for the Marketing Section. The Project Unit staff would re-
quire training in project appraisal and supervision procedures, which would
be carried out by the Project Manager and the three Section Chiefs. Assur-
ances were obtained that the Project Unit would be staffed as described in
para 5.04 (a) and (b) and this would be a condition of effectiveness. Assur-
ances were also obtained that AFDC, within three months from the effective-
ness date, would submit to IBRD for review the draft curriculum for training
of the Project Unit staff.
5.06      The Unit would be responsible for appraisal and supervision of the
sub-borrowers. In additiorn, it would develop and operate a nursery to provide
virus-free asparagus crowns for. the project, since AFDC is the only institu-
tion with some experience in operating such a nursery.  Similarly the Unit             _
would be responsible for distributing to sub-borrowers healthy, virus-free
strawberry runners, developed at SHES. The Unit would also assist NAPIO in



lmh                                        - 19 -
14W ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      -9
improving and revising quality control standards and regulations, and the
Government in developing a Food Technology Course in one of the universities
in Korea.
5.07      Loans appraised by AFDC would be disbursed to sub-borrowers through
NACF, since the Government as a matter of policy wants all agricultural credit
channeled through it. NACF would also collect repayments from sub-borrowers
on behalf of AFDC. AFDC would establish a Project Account with an initial
deposit of Won 275 M, at NACF. Assurances were obtained to this effect and
the establishment of such an account would be a condition of effectiveness.
NACF would pay interest at the prevailing Government rate on undisbursed funds
into AFDC's Project Account. NACF would provide weekly statements to AFDC.
AFDC would pay NACF a maximum handling charge of 0.5% on the amount outstand-
ing at the end of each year. Although AFDC would enter into a basic contract
with sub-borrowers and would be responsible for supervision, a subsidiary
contract would also be signed between NACF and sub-borrowers outlining the
repayment schedule. Assurances were obtained that a Participation Agreement
between NACF and AFDC outlining NACF's role in the project, satisfactory to
IBRD, would be signed and ratified as a condition of effectiveness. Assur-
ances were also obtained that AFDC, within three months of effectiveness,
would submit to IBRD, for review and agreement, the forms of basic contracts
(between AFDC and sub-borrower).
5.08      A Steering Committee would be established to coordinate project
implementation among the different Government organizations as well as to
review the progress of the project. Under the chairmanship of the Vice-
President of the Development Department of AFDC, one representative of EPB,
MAF, MHSA, NAPIO, SHES and NACF would meet at least quarterly. The Manager
of the Project Unit would act as Secretary to the Committee. Assurances
were obtained that such a Committee would be established.
B. Appraisal Procedures
5.09      The Project Unit, in appraising sub-borrowers, would follow the
procedures outlined in Schedule B and assurances to this effect were obtained.
Assurances were also obtained that the Project Unit would submit to IBRD for
review detailed appraisal and supervision procedures within three months
after the project became effective.
C. Lending Terms
5.10      AFDC would lend funds to sub-borrowers at a minimum interest rate
of 10.5% per annum, and assurances were obtained to this effect. This rate
is higher than the prevailing rates charged to private entrepreneurs by the
Government (the major source of finance) for agro-industries development.
The spread (7-1/4%   10.5%) would be more than adequate to cover AFDC's cost
of administering      loan (including slippage of loans and foreign exchange
risk) (para 6.08). Based on the cash flow projections, it would still provide
sufficient financi   incentive to sub-borrowers.



- 20 -
5.11      Based on their cash flows (para 6.07), the following grace and
repayment periods would be appropriate:
Grace      Repayment         Total
period       period          Term
---------------years-------____
On-farm Development
Mushrooms                       3              5              8
Shiitake                        2              3              5
Asparagus                       4              7             11
Processing
Mushrooms                       1              9             10
Peaches/mushrooms               1              7              8
Asparagus                       1              9             10
Freezing                        1              9             10
Shiitake - Drying               1              9             10
Assurances were obtained that these periods would not be exceeded.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.12      Internal auditors (members of AFDC's staff) supervise AFDC's accounts
on a continuing basis. The Ministry of Finance conducts periodic audits of
government-owned corporations. Assurances were obtained that AFDC would
keep separate accounts of project operations (loans, collections and operating
expenses) and these accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors,
satisfactory to IBRD, and their report would be submitted to IBRD within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. Furthermore, NACF would provide annual-
ly to AFDC an audited statement of the account to be maintained by them for
AFDC under the project. In addition, AFDC's full accounts would be submitted
to IBRD for review.
E. Project Evaluation
5.13      Since the Marketing Section of the Project Unit would collect and
review price data, etc., it would also be responsible for monitoring the
progress of the project. It would pay particular attention to determining
the project's impact on farmers' income, the creation of employment in rural
areas and the increase in export earnings. This evaluation would also
assist in the preparation of a possible second phase of the project, for
the further expansion of agro-industries in Korea. The evaluation reports
would be submitted to IBRD.  Assurances to this effect were obtained.  The
format of such reports was also agreed during negotiations.  In addition, the
/eN4  W,X<t.R'd
}2V   aa,a3;f ,,   /-    ,.M;.,.v 



_ 21 -
reporting requirements covering appraisal and supervision was discussed
and agreed.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND OPERATING RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      Project annual production at full development (1980) would be as
follows:
Present    Incremental
Production   Production
Commodity                             (1973)      (1980)
Mushrooms ('000 standard cases /a          1,100          450
Asparagus ( "       "       "  Yb            nil          130
Peaches   ( "       it) -                    700        1,200
Frozen Strawberries (ton)                     45        1,200
AgaL              Strawberry Jam (ton)                          -           200
Frozen Spinach (ton)                         460        7,500
Shiitake (ton)                               430          360
/a    1 standard case  = 24 cans, each 16 oz (net).
/b    1 standard case  = 24 cans, each 425 grams (net).
B. Markets (Annex 8)
6.02      Export Market - Japan, Europe (the Federal Republic of Germany,
Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK), Canada and the United States would be
the major export markets for the incremental production under the project.
As a result of increasing per capita income and rising labor costs (the
commodities financed under the project are very labor-intensive) in these
countries, import demand for these commodities will increase. The current
energy crisis and related economic uncertainties in Japan, the US and
Europe are not expected to have any significant long-term effect upon demand.
Korea's major competitor for these markets is the Republic of China. Korea
has an advantage over the Republic of China, both in labor costs and climate.
In addition, Korea's close geographical proximity to Japan, a major importer,
also provides an advantage in exporting these commodities, since transportation
cost is very low. This factor has become of greater significance in view of
the recent oil shortage.  Very little information is available on quantity
or quality of products from the People's Republic of China.  It is expected,
however, that it will increase its share in the export market for these
commodities.



- 22-
6.03      Korea's share in the world market for canned mushrooms is less
than 20%. In the past Korea has relied very heavily on the United States
as a major outlet. However this trend has been reversed, as the US has
attempted to limit imports and Korea has voluntarily reduced its exports to
the US. In 1973 less than 45% of total production was exported to the US.
By 1980, this is expected to decline further to about 25%. The contraction
of the US market would be replaced by increased exports to the Federal
Republic of Germany, Scandinavian countries and Canada, where at present
Korea's share is very limited. In the past Korea has been unable to market
canned mushrooms in Canada, a-major importer of this commodity, because
it has not produced the 5-oz. can size required by Canada. The improved
quality and diversification of can sizes resulting from the project would
permit Korea to increase its share in this market. Improved quality would
also enable it to compete more effectively in other major markets, in
particular the Federal Republic of Germany.
6.04      The major markets for 6ther comiodities would be Japan (canned
peaches and asparagus, frozen strawberries and spinach, freeze-dried leeks
and parsley and dried shiitake) and Europe (canned peaches and asparagus,
and dried shiitake). In the last two years, Korea has received large orders
for export of these commodities but has been unable to meet them due to
the lack of good quality production.  The project would enable Korea to
improve the quality of these products as well as to reduce its production
costs, thus enabling it to compete more effectively in the growing export               W
market for these commodities.
6.05      Market Arrangements.  Incremental production from the project
would be primarily marketed through AFDC and private exporters. AFDC would
provide market information, analyzing market prospects for horticultural
commod.ties to processors and exporters with the objective of assisting them
in increasing Korea's share in the agro-industry export market.
6.06      Prices.  Annex 14 lists average 1973 farmgate and export prices
(fob Korra) for the project commodities. No significant change in these
prices is foreseen. A detailed discussion is presented in Annex 8.
C. Operating Results
6.07      Typical results for investment under the project are given in
Annex 15. Financial rates of return for on-farm development vary according
to the crop, ranging from 39% (mushrooms) to 22% (shiitake). Major
assumptions are:
Mushrooms - incremental yield is projected to be about
8 kg/mZ annually. Product quality of both present and
incremental production would improve (at present only 20%
of production is Grade "A"; this is expected to increase
to about 45%); the loss rate would decline from the
present 8% to about 3% (Annex 1).



Amob,                            ~~~~~~~~- 23 -
-~~~~~~~-3
lw
Shiitake - yields are expected to increase from the
present 4 kg/m3 to 10 kg/mr3, an incremental increase of
about 6 kg/m3 (Annex 2).
Asparagus - the life of asparagus, once crowns are planted,
is 12 years, of which the first two years are unproductive.
Yields are expected to reach 5 tons/ha (similar to .japan)
(Annex 3, para 16).
The modernization and integration of processing facilities would provide
a financial rate of return ranging from 22% to 27%. These would be in line
with the return expected from alternative investments in Korea. Two
separate sensitivity tests have been made: a 10% increase in capital
investment and a 10% decline in net income would reduce these rates to 18%
for on-farm development and to 24% for processing facilities.
6.08      The cash flow projections for AFDC's involvement in the project
are also presented in Annex 15 (Table 1G). These are based on 1973 prices
and show that AFDC would be in a position to cover administrative costs and
slippage in collection and have a reasonable profit margin from the project.
AFDC would reinvest its surplus for the further development of agro-industries
in Korea.
w
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
7.01      The project would enable farmers to grow these commodities
on land presently idle or used for low-income cash crops (barley, etc.).
These commodities would not displace any paddy production, but would benefit
rice farmers by providing them with profitable cash crops during the off-
season. Since production of these crops is linked with processing, the
farmers would have a ready market outlet for their production at a steady
and profitable price, thus avoiding the price fluctuations to which they
have been subject in the past. The project's quantifiable benefits are
discussed briefly in the following paragraphs and detailed calculations
are presented in Annex 16.
A. Project's Contribution to Third Plan
7.02      Reduction of Income Disparity.  By 1980, about 5,000 farmers would
participate under the project, whose present average annual per capita income
is US$220, oi 40% below the national average of US$370.  Without the project,
by 1980, this disparity would be widened (46% below the national average).
hiowever with the project, the disparity between their income and the projected
*       1980 national per capita income,-would be only 15%.  This is a significant
contribution in reducing income disparity, which is one of the principal
objectives of the Third Five Year Plan.



-24 -
7.03      Rural Employment.  The project by 1980 would create about 2,600
permanent jobs in rural areas, primarily for skilled and technical
personnel. In addition, a large number of seasonal jobs would be generated,
which would provide employment in the off-season to farmers who are at
present under-employed. Each permanent job would be created at a capital
cost of about US$7,000, which is very reasonable in Korea (it is projected
that by 1980, the average cost of creating a permanent job would be about
US$9,000).
7.04      Agricultural Exports.  At full development (1980), the project
would contribute annually about US$22 M in incremental export earnings. In
addition, it would enable Korea to diversify its exports from agro-industries
and reduce the export market dependence on canned mushrooms. It is expected
that project integration and modernization dould lead to further expansion
of agro-industries in Korea, thus enabling the country to exploit the growing
international markets.
B. Economic Rate of Return
7.05      For economic rate of return (EROR) calculations, all factors of
production, including labor, have been valued at existing market rates.  In-            _
vestment costs include physical contingency and the cost of technical                    _
assistance. Economic benefits comprise estimated incremental production,
valued at 1973 world market price (fob Korea). Based on these estimates,
return to the economy would be 24% (Annex 16). The sensitivity of EROR to
world prices has been tested and a decrease of 10% would reduce EROR to 18%.
The sensitivity to labor costs indicates that doubling the wage rates without
increasing labor productivity would reduce EROR from 24% to 20%.
7.06      These returns and the impact on the economy confirm the high
priority for the project and its place in the Government strategy for
economic development.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  AFDC would ensure that loans were for integrated
facilities (peaches and mushrooms) and not for mush-
room operations alone (para 4.09);
(b)  AFDC would arrange for a study by a management consult-
ting firm to review and improve its accounting and
financial information system (para 4.13);
(c)  The Government would provide AFDC with Won 1,288
million (US$3.22 M) over four years (para 4.19);



- 25-
(d)  AFDC would charge sub-borrowers a minimum annual
interest rate of 10.5% (para 5.10) with repayment
and grace periods as in para 5.11.
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  AFDC had entered into an agreement with SHES to provide
technical assistance and supervision for on-farm
development of asparagus and strawberries (para
4.13(b));
(b)  a consultant with qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to IBRD had been hired to supervise the
initial selection and location of sub-borrowers for
asparagus cultivation (para 4.13(d));
(c)  the Government had transferred Won 275 million to AFDC
(para 4.19) and AFDC had established a Project Account
at NACF with this sum as initial deposit (para 5.07);
(d)  a Project Manager had been hired with qualifications
and terms of reference satisfactory to IBRD (para 5.03);
(e)  the Project Unit had been suitably staffed (para 5.05);
-                  and
(f)  a Participation Agreement, satisfactory to IBRD between
NACF and AFDC had been duly ratified and executed
(para 5.07).
8.03      The project is suitable for an IBRD loan of US$13.0 M to AFDC for
a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period.






SCREDULE A
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Projet PhasL3
Total Area/    Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4
No. of       Area/No.    Area/No.    Area/No.    Area/No.
Plants1a      of Plants   of Plants   of Plants   of Plants
On-Farm Development
Mushrooms         40 ha          2 ha         6 ha         15 ha        17 ha
(350)          (14)         (62)         (126)        (148)
Asparagus        435 ha         75 ha        80 ha        140 ha       140 ha
(217)          (37)         (40)         ( 70)        ( 70)
Shiitake      24,000 m 3     6,000 m3    8,000 m3    10,000 m 3
(240)          (60)         (80)         (100)             t
Strawberry       300 ha         50 ha       100 ha        150 ha
(1,500)         (300)        (600)         (600)
Spinach        2,500 ha        500 ha    1,000 ha       1,000 ha
(2,500)         (500)      (1,000)       (1,000)
Processing
Mushrooms           22             5            8             9
Peaches and
Mushrooms         20             1            8            11
Asparagus            4             1            1             2
Freezing             3              1           1              1
Shiitake-Drying/b   2              -            1             1
ta   Figures in ( ) indicate number of sub-borrowers.
/b   Number and phasing are subject to revision.






SCHEDULE B
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Appraisal Procedures
1.        The procedures to be followed by the Project Unit in appraising
sub-borrowers would be as follows and would not be altered without the
prior agreement of IBRD:
(a)  detailed field investigation of each sub-borrower would be
undertaken;
(b) a complete review of the sub-borrowers' technical competency
and financial viability would be made to determine that the
sub-project would generate sufficient cash flow to cover
debt-service and that the financial rate of return would
be satisfactory;
(c) the sub-borrower would enter into a contract to foilow
_                    technical advice provided by the Project Unit;
(d) for on-farm development, special attention would be paid
to the selection of areas with suitable soil conditions
where flooding was not likely. Priority should be given
to those suitable lands that are at present idle and
ensuring that proper market outlets exist for these crops
(adequate processing facilities);
(e) for the canneries to be modernized and integrated,
particular attention should be paid to ensuring that
processing facilities would meet international hygiene
requirements and would utilize modern equipment and
techniques;
(f) any sub-borrower's modernization plan costing more than
US$100,000 in total would be reviewed by IBRD before the
approval of sub-loans to ensure the technical feasibility
of the sub-project. This arrangement would be applied for
the first two years only, after which it is expected that
the Project Unit would have trained staff for this purpose;
(g) processors would provide satisfactory evidence to the
Project Unit that an arrangement existed between them and
project farmers for purchase of their production, to ensure
a steady market outlet for farmers as well as an adequate
supply for processing.



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
w
2.        The Project Unit would develop detailed appraisal and supervision
procedures and would submit these to IBRD for its review within three months
after the.-project became effective.
w



ANNEX 1
Page  1
lw
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Fresh Mushroom Production
Introduction
1.        Mushrooms are a labor-intensive crop, technically difficult to
cultivate and highly susceptible to disease. Mushrooms are grown in
specially erected houses, on beds supported by iron poles. Prepared com-
post is spread over the beds, into which spawns are inoculated. After
about 20 days, harvesting begins. Each crop of mushrooms produces several
"lbreaks"t or pickings.
Major Producers
2.        Besides Korea, the major producing countries are the U.S., France,
the Netherlands, the Republic of China And the U.K., which together account
for about 80% of total world production of fresh mushrooms. Serious efforts
are being made in these countries to introduce mechanization to the industry,
but certain operations, especially the picking of mushrooms, are not suitable
for mechanization. Hence rising labor costs in Europe and the U.S. give
Korea a comparative advantage. The People's Republic of China is also a
major producer; however no information is available concerning its production
or potential. So far its exports of canned mushrooms have been very limited.
3.        The Republic of China has achieved a high rate of growth in
mushroom production. Its production increased from 32,000 tons in 1965 to
about 57,000 tons in 1968. However in the year 1969/70, production declined
to about 32,000 tons, due to infestation of the production area by pests
and disease. Since then considerable investment has been made to improve
the sanitary conditions of mushroom-growing facilities and in 1972 production
had increased to about 90,000 tons.
Korea's Comparative Advantage
4.        Due to its colder climate, Korea can harvest two crops a year (one
in spring and the other in autumn). The Republic of China, with a warmer
climate, can produce only one crop without the use of air-conditioning.
Air-conditioned mushroom houses are expensive and technically difficult to
operate.
5.        Korea's cold climate also permits better control of mushroom
insects (flies and maggots, etc.) and diseases. Wage levels in Korea are
lower than those prevailing in the Republic of China, enabling Korea to
produce mushrooms at lower cost.



ANNEX 1
Page  2  -
Production and Yield (Table 1)
6,        Commercial mushroom production in Korea started in 1964/65.  From
1966 to 1972, production increased from 1,400 tons to about 19,000 tons and
yields from 2 kg/m2 to about 9 kg/m2.  However the total production area
has fluctuated; total bed area was about 70 ha in 1965, 100 ha in 1967 and
50 ha in 1969.  In recent years the area has increased and is estimated
at nearly 200 ha in 1972. Although, due to the poor conditions of growing
facilities (lack of boilers, old iron poles, etc.) about 30% of the total
bed area was not planted. A similar percentage of total bed area was also
left idle in 1973. This is primarily because the mushroom beds, which were
constructed of iron poles salvaged from the Korean War, have deteriorated
to the point where many beds have collapsed. Furthermore farmers could not
apply compost at optimum levels, due to the weak condition of the iron
poles, resulting in lower yields.
Production Organization
7.        Mushrooms are grown by private farmers and mushrooms canneries.
In 1966-68 there were about 1,000 farmers engaged in mushroom cultivation
with average growing facilities of 0.1 ha; by 1972 their number had declined
to about 700. Many farmers sold their growing houses to canneries due to
the decrease in profits resulting from inadequate facilities. As a result,
their previous share in total production (80% in 1966) has now declined to              _
about 50%. With cannery-owned growing facilities larger (average size about
1 ha) and somewhat more modern than those of private farmers, yields from
factory-owned houses are about 25% higher and are of better quality (a
higher percentage of Grade "A" mushrooms and lower wastage).  Since 1971/72
efforts have been made to organize mushroom farmers into Farmers' Associa-
tions consisting of five to six farmers. Costly equipment such as boilers,
etc., uneconomical for individual farme's, are jointly owned by the members
of the Farmers' Association. However each farmer is responsible for his
own production and marketing.
Marketing
8.        Individual farmers enter into long-term contracts with canneries,
whereby the latter must purchase their entire production. Prices are
determined annually by the canneries in consultation with the farmers.
In 1973 prices obtained by the farmers were as follows: Grade "A" - Won 150/kg;
Grade "B" - Won 132/kg; Grade "C" - Won 114/kg. The canneries also advance
some percentage of the projected sale proceeds to farmers and provide them
with technical assistance. This sytem has proved satisfactory to both farmers
and canneries and is expected to continue in the future.
Government Policies
9.        The Government is concerned about the declining number of
private farmers engaged in mushroom cultivation and aims at a production
ratio of 60:40 in favor of private farmers.  In 1972, the Government launched



ANNEX 1
Page  3
a program to provide credit to the farmers to modernize their growing
facilities; however, due to lack of funds, this effort has not been very
successful. The Government is concerned with this program, in view of its
present policy of increasing incomes and employment opportunities in rural
areas. Mushroom cultivation could contribute significantly to these
objectives as a highly labor-intensive crop. Moreover mushroom cultivation
can be undertaken without displacement of paddy, since they are cultivated
or lands which are generally unused.
Cultivation Practices
10.       Facilities:  The present mushroom houses are simple brick struc-
tures with either tin or asbestos roofs. They are not insulated, nor are
doors and windows sealed, making it difficult to maintain needed temperatures.
There is no controlled ventilation system, essential to drive off toxic
gases and to dry mushrooms after watering to prevent Bacterial Blotch and
Pit. The dirt floors encourage the breeding of flies, mites and diseases
and do not permit drainage. Much of the iron used to support the beds
needs replacement so that proper compost depth can be maintained and yields
improved.
11.       Compost Preparation:  Unlike green plants, mushrooms cannot
manufacture their own food but rely on micro-organisms to convert nitrogen
into forms they can use. The composition of compost, its preparation and
its sterilization, are fundamental in achieving good yields.  Unless it is
sterilized, it contains flies, maggots, mites, etc which feed on the mushroom
and destroy its sources of food. Yields are thereby reduced and quality
deteriorates. About 70-80% of the farmers lack the boilers needed to
pasteurize the compost.
12.       Most farmers prepare compost on the ground which then becomes
muddy following watering, instead of on concrete slabs to avoid this
contamination. Some farmers rigidly conform to a time schedule for turning
compost instead of examining the pile and turning when conditions are right.
13.       At present, the recommended fertilizers appear to be too low in
nitrogen content. Normal recommendations call for a nitrogen content of
1.6-1.7% at first turning, whereas Korean recommendations are for 1.36%.
There is, of course, a safety factor involved in keeping nitrogen levels
low where farmers do not have boilers and moisture content is high. (At
some farms the mission found ink caps and plaster mold indicating too high
moisture content). Nevertheless where farmers have boilers to pasteurize
compost, the level of nitrogen is too low to drive off the free ammonia which
is toxic to mushrooms.
14.       Casing Soils:  Clay loams are the best soils for casing layers and
ready supplies are available. Clay loams with granules give the best yields
since the soil structure allows excellent air and water movement. At casing
time, the soil should have a pH of 7.0-7.4.  Casing soil should also be
sterilized before application. Few farmers have sterilization bins or
boilers.



ANNEX 1
Page  4
15.       Spawn-making:  There are two AFDC and 17 privately-owned spawn-making
companies. About 1 million pounds of spawn is required for each crop, and
total available capacity is about 1.6 million pounds. The quality of the
spawn, however, needs to be improved, since yield and quality are dependent
upon it. In 1973, spawn contamination for the autumn crop was about 20%.
Most facilities do not have the aseptic conditions essential to keep
contamination at the low levels found in the U.S. and Europe. Under the
Project, technical assistance would be provided to spawn manufacturers to
improve quality.
16.       Insects and Diseases:  Mushrooms are very susceptible to insects
and pest diseases. These include flies (sciarid, cecid and phorid), mites
and maggots, eelworms and weed and parisitic fungi. Although these are
not now major problems in Korea, if growing facilities are not improved
there is a great danger of a pest and disease epidemic wiping out the
industry as occurred in the Republic of China.
17.       Flies and their larvae live through the compost sweat-out and
are in the compost before spawn is planted. The worms are small and diffi-
cult to distinguish. They feed on spawn and mushrooms, resulting in lower
yields and poor quality mushrooms. Mites normally live in the soil, and
shortly after composting starts, they invade the compost, especially where
there is an abundance of molds.  Mites are of two groups:  spawn-eaters and
those that damage mushrooms. Most mites found in Korea were spawn-eaters.
When large numbers of mites are present, spawn growth may be retarded or               _
inhibited altogether.  There are two di3tinct types of eelworms: ditylenchus
and rhabditis. Both can result in complete crop failure. Weed fungi live
in the compost and compete with mushrooms for space and nutrition. Parasitic
fungi live directly on the mushroom tissue, causing discoloration and
deformities.
18.       To keep these pests and diseases under control, it is absolutely
essential to use boilers for soil sterilization and pasteurization of
compost. In addition sanitary measures need to be undertaken to improve
hygiene conditions in the growing houses to eliminate the sources of disease
and pests and prevent their spread.
Technical Assistance
19.       The Office of Rural Development, an agency of the MAF, is
responsible for extension services to mushroom farmers. The level of
training and extension service is good since this was emphasized on the
introduction of mushroom cultivation to Korea. However extension workers
are not familiar with modern techniques, especially those concerned with
ventilation, temperature and humidity control, and will need further training.
Conclusion
20.       Although yields have risen over the years, the number of private
farmers cultivating mushrooms has fallen.  More and more canneries have had
to rely upon their own farms but they are now limited because of a lack of
funds. Unless mushroom houses are modernized, production will fall and perhaps



ANNEX 1
_dook                                                                    Page  5
lw
most serious of all, there is a great chance of diseases multiplying to epi-
demic proportions as occurred in Taiwan. Modern sterilizing and pasteuriz-
ing equipment is needed to prevent this. Unless beds are strengthened, more
farmers will suffer from the complete collapse of beds, compost depths will
not be maintained and yields will fall.
Modernization underthe Project
21.       About 85% of the rehabi.litation to be undertaken will be on
private farms; the remainder would be on farms owned by mushroom canner-
ies.  Only farmers owning 400 pyongs (0.13 ha) or less of mushroom houses
would be eligible to participate under the project. Provision has been
made for better insulation and ventilation of houses, including the provi-
sion of exhaust fans and boilers. The project will also finance the
construction of concrete floors, casing soil sheds, steam pipes and soil
sterilization bins.
22.       The Technical Section of the Project Unit will have an on-farm
mushroom expert and sub-borrowers selected to participate will be required
to follow his advice on cultivation practices.
23.       The modernization proposed under the project would provide anl
annual incremental yield of about 8 kg/m2 and the quality of the product
would improve as follows:
at present
Grades     (without project)        With project
-- (in percent) ------------------
A             20                      40
B             50                      55
C             20                       3
Rejected      10                       2
The iacremental annual income of the farmers would be about Won 220,000
(Annex 16).






ANNEX 1
Table 1
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Korea: Growth Rate of Mushroom Production
Total
Marketable
Bed Area       Yield per         Production    No. of Private
2
Year          (in ha)         m  in Kg          (in tons)        Farmers
1966             70              2.0              1,367            n.a.
1967            100              2.0              1,732            n.a.
1968            67               4.0              2,605           1,005
1969            50               4.6              3,862             800
1970            78               7.7              5,958             746
1971            123              8.3             10,173             724
1972            185              8.5             19,269             720
Source:  AFDC, Seoul, Korea, November 1973.
March 8, 1974






ANNEX 2
Page 1
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Shiitake Production
Background
1.        Oak mushrooms (shiitake) are used exclusively in Chinese and
Japanese cooking. Their taste and flavor are so different from those of
cultivated mushrooms that substitution is not possible. Shiitake is cul-
tivated by implanting spawn in oak log.; mountain areas with high natural
humidity (80-90%) are essential for cultivation since shiitake cannot be
grown under artificial conditions. Shiitake, which is entirely exported,
must be dried before marketing and is not sold in fresh form.
2.        The major producers are Japan, People's Republic of China and
Korea. Because. of a decline in the availability of oak logs and rising
labor costs, Japan now imports shiitake. Although shiitake is cultivated
in the People's Republic of China, little information is available on pro-
-oftL    duction except that, so far, no significant exports have been made.
Climate
3.        Korea's climate is ideal for shiitake cultivation.  During spawn
growth, optimum temperatures range from 22-26 and during harvesting, 15-
17C. At 10C, shiitake will grow to maturity in 9-10 days but growth is
accelerated to 4-6 days when temperatures are between 15-17%C. The weather
in Korea is suitable for a five-month growing season. Average temperatures
are:
Degrees (Celsius)
January                            -3
February                           -2
March                            3-4
April                               7
May                                12
June                               20
July                           20-25
August                         21-26
September                       16-22
October                        11-16
November                         1-10
December                            0
.



ANNEX 2
Page  2
Production and Yields (Table 1)
4.        Production has risen from 108 tons in 1967 to 265 i:ons in 1972.
The major producing areas in 1972 were:
1972 Production
Cheju                  93,700         35
Gang Weon              69,200         26
Chung Bug              45,100         17
Chunbuk                33,400         13
Kyungbuk                14,200         5
Cheju, where shiitake cultivation was first introduced into Korea, accounted
for 43% of production in 1967 but only 35% of production in 1972.
5.        Shiitake yields have risen from 2.0 kg/m3 of log in 1967 to
3.5 kg/m3 in 1972. In the first year of growth, there is no yield and in
the second year, little yield; major harvests are gathered during the third
and fourth years. Yields declineB in the fifth year and logs must be replaced
after five years. With proper facilities and technical assistance, yields
could be increased to at least 10 kg/m3.
w
Production Organization
6.        There are about 350 farmers cultivating oak mushroom with an
average of 90 m3 of log each. The major production, however, comes from
about 10% of farmers whose holdings are about 500 m3 each.
Cultivation Practices
7.        Logs are inoculated with shiitake spawn within 15 days of harvest
using 150 kg of spawn per 100 m3 of log. Where electricity is not avail-
able, farmers use a hammer and special spawning tool to make holes for
spawn. Where electricity is available, many farmers use drills to make
holes at three to four inch intervals which is a big saving in labor.
(Government plans call for electrification of all areas where power is
needed by 1976.)
8.        Beginning in the second year, shiitake are harvested by hand
and sorted into two grades before drying. These are dried in small mud
houses using wood and leaves as fuel and about 30 such facilities are
presently available. Convection currents are used and drying takes about
24 hours. During peak harvesting periods, farmers find it difficult to dry
all of their mushrooms. This method is very inefficient and moisture
content varies considerably. Drying facilities must be provided in the
growing areas since mushrooms deteriorate if they are transported any great
distance before drying.



ANNEX 2
Page  3
w
Diseases
9.        There are only two diseases currently causing problems in shiitake
cultivation: Trichoderma and Bacterial Blotch. These cause a slight reduc-
tion in quality and yields. A few farmers are attempting to control these
diseases by watering with a 100-150 ppm solution of chlorine.
Spakin
10.       The propagation medium is oak sawdust which is sterilized in a
specially constructed sterilizer. Inoculation is performed using standard
practices recommended to keep contamination as low as possible. Spawn is
then placed in a growing room where the temperature is kept at an optimum
23-26C for 10-15 days.  During this period, spawn is checked two or three
times for contamination -- the presence of weedmold and stromai. Bottles
containing weedmold or disease, the most common of which is Trichoderma,
are destroyed.
11.       Spawn production was about 35,000 kg in 1970 and 46,000 kg in
1972; 1973 production is estimated at about 73,000 kg. Capacity is available
to produce an estimated 100,000 kg annually, which would be sufficient to
meet future expansion.
Institutions
12.       Officeo f  restry.  The Office of Forestry, an agency of the
MAF, is responsible for cultivation of trees and for logging, sales and
research. It now has about 1.2 million ha under cultivation and plans call
for a 20% increase in acreage under oak trees. The Office of Forestry
determines the size of trees which may be cut and oak trees may not be
used for any purpose other than shiitake cultivation. At present, only
trees with a base diameter not less than 9 cm may be felled. Farmers
themselves own about 25% of the area under oak trees and government is
encouraging them to increase plantings.
13.       Special Forestry Products Division (SFD).  All spawn used in
shiitake cultivation is grown by the Special Forestry Products Division of
the Federation of Forestry Associations. SFPD's budget is met by govern-
ment grants (70%) and from its own income (30%). Spawn prices are set by the
government and they vary according to the rate of contamination. The average
price to farmers is Won 272/kg.
Research and Training
14.       Research is undertaken by Federation of Forestry Associations.
Present plans are to continue research on tree cultivation, spawn and
cultivation practices for shiitake.
15.       Although extension services have improved to some extent, which
is reflected in increased yields, there is a need for better services to
0        farmers.  Currently, the more affluent farmers obtain advice from the ORD



ANNEX 2
Page  4
w
station nearest to them. However, there is no training for new farmers or
poorer farmers by on-farm demonstrations, etc.
Government Policy
16.       Current government policy is to increase rural incomes and ex-
pand agricultural exports. In mountain areas, farm incomes are low since
there are few opportunities for poor farmers to supplement the meagre crops
grown in the area. Shiitake can provide additional income if present facil-
ities are improved, cultivation practices are upgraded and sufficient credit
provided.
17.       Any increase in the present price of logs (Won 2,000/m3) is ex-
pected to be slight, covering only additional labor costs in cultivation
and felling. There are ample supplies of oak available and the best varieties
for shiitake are grown in the Project areas (Americus Acutissima and Americus
Serrata).
Future Prospects
18.       Korea has good prospects for increasing its share in the export
market for shiitake (Annex 8). It has a suitable climate, adequate log
supply and cheap labor necessary for increasing production.  However
future expansion depends upon the availability of credit and adequate
drying facilities.                                                                      W
Proposed Project
19.       Under the Project, credit would be provided for the purchase of
logs, tools, sheds, water sprinkler systems and the construction of modern
drying facilities. It is expected that about 24,000 m3 of oak logs would be
used for cultivation in Gang Weon and Chung Bug provinces, which have an
ample supply of the best varieties of oak logs. Project farmers would be
trained in improved cultivation practices. The drying facilities would be
owned by individual farmers or by a group of farmers in partnership. The
incremental yield is expected to be about 6 kg/m3 of logs and the quality of
products will improve. The present high loss rate of-10% would be reduced
to about 2%, and with modern drying facilities, a much higher percentage of
Grade "At" product would be produced. It is expected that about 240 farmers
would participate and their incremental income would be significant
(Annex 16). At full development (1980), the incremental production of
dried Shiitake (360 tons) would result in additional export earnings of
about US$3.3 million per year.
S



ANNEX 2
Table 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Shiitake Production in Korea
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972
Log (1,000 m )                    17     15     13      20     25      30
Spawn inoculated (1,000 kg)       19     21     23      35     38     46
No. of Growers                   190    162    157    316    351       340
Production (ton)                 108    139    160    187    208    265
3
Annual Yield (kg/mr)               2.0    2.4    2.9    3.1    3.0    3.5
Export Quantity (ton)            108    130    118    180    156    275
Source:   AFDC, Seoul, Korea, November 1973.
March 8, 1974






ANNEX 3
___lik                                                                 Page  1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Asparagus Production
Background
1.        In 1965-66 the MAP encouraged the development of asparagus on about
700 ha. It imported seed and contracted with several farmers to raise
asparagus crowns (plants). The crowns ere supplied free of charge to those
farmers willing to participate, together with a free supply of fertilizer
for initial application before planting.
2.        Two principal areas were selected:  in and around the village of
Gal San in Asan Kun and in the region of Gwanju. Smaller areas in other
regions were also chosen. In the Gal San area, some 300 farmers participated
in the scheme which had, as a local target, some 200 ha of asparagus.
Initially, it was intended that the asparagus would be supplied to a local
cannery; however no contract was made with the cannery and the processing
firm went bankrupt because of the outdated equipment. The farmers were
given no other help to dispose of their crops. Since there is only a
limited demand for fresh asparagus on Korean markets, most farmers were
unable to sell their produce and ploughed up their fields. Today only about
5 ha of asparagus remains in Gal San.
3.        In the area of Gwanju in the southwest, some 350 ha were planted.
Again, no contracts were entered into and farmers received no help in the
disposal of their produce. Despite the severe loss to the farmers concerned,
many of them would still be interested in growing asparagus provided they had
a definite arrangement for sale of their output.
4.        This unfortunate effort was undertaken by MAF through local govern-
ment offices and with the help of ORD extension officers. No help was sought
from the SHES.
Present Developments
2.        AFDC, however, has been approached many times by the Green Giant
Company (USA) concerning the possibility of AFDC, itself, arranging for the
production and canning of green asparagus.
6.        In 1972, AFDC arranged with the SHES station at Kimhae to raise
asparagus crowns from seed supplied by Green Giant. These crowns were
supplied to contract farmers to plant on farms in the Puyo and Kumi areas,
14 ha at each location. An additional 4 ha was planted for experimental
purposes on land adjoining the AFDC's Kumi mushroom processing plant.  AFDC



ANNEX 3
Page  2                 _
provides working capital and technical assistance to selected farmers.
Progress has so far been encouraging.
Korea's Comparat:'.ve Advantage
7.        Due to its colder climate Korea can produce better quality asparagus
more suitable for canning than the Republic of China which, with a warmer
climate, produces asparagus that is somewhat fibrous in texture and requires
peeling before canning. Again for reasons of climate, Korea can achieve a
higher yield than Taiwan. Since asparagus is a very labor-intensive crop
and labor is relatively cheaper in Korea, production costs are somewhat
lower than those of other major producing countries, such as Japan, the
Republic of China and the US. Korea has abundant suitable land, at present
d    | unutilized, which can be brought under asparagus cultivation, without
( displacing any other crops.
Government Policy
8.        To increase income and employment opportunities in rural areas,
the Government is encouraging the development of labor-intensive crops,
in particular on those lands which are at present idle or provide very low
incomes.  Asparagus meets these requirements and hence in 1972, the
Government made the AFDC responsible for developing asparagus production
on a commercial basis.
Soils and Locations
9.        Asparagus is deep-rooting and requires soil with a depth of about
2m.  While it is possible to grow it on a wide range of soils, sandy loams
are best. The soil should be well supplied with humus and have a pH of
6.0 - 7.0.
10.       AFDC is planning to develop asparagus areas along t:he following
rivers:
(a)  The Kum; one of the first AFDC established asparagus
fields, at Puyo, lies in this area.
(b)  The Nagdong; the second AFDC asparagus area is at Kumi
in the upper reaches of this river and the potential area
at Namji lies along its banks to the northwest of Gimhae.
(c)  The Yeongsang, in the southwest, extending through
Gwangju and past Muan.
Present plans are to develop 500 ha along the Kum and the Yeongsang and
up to 1,000 ha along parts of the Nagdong.
11.       Some of these river soils have a very high sand content with very
little humus.  The first plantings at Gumi were in this type of soil and
the first year's growth of asparagus was very variable. Some growth is very



ANNEX 3
Page 3
weak which is attributable to drying out of the soil in early summer. Con-
siderable quantities of compost will be needed if growth is to be satisfactory.
12.       Asparagus has a life of 15 years, of which the first two years are
unproductive. Consequently, care needs to be taken to ensure that land used
for asparagus could not be more productive for vegetables or other crops.
AFDC's overall policy is to try to use so-called idle land along the rivers
which is not presently cultivated or is planted to crops of relatively low
income value. Because these areas lie within the river banks it will be
necessary to avoid areas subject to flooding. Asparagus will not tolerate
permanently wet, water-logged soils except for extremely brief periods of a
few hours.
Varieties
13.       All commercial plantings to date in Korea have been from seed
supplied from a selection (GG500) from the Mary Washington variety.
However, trials are under way at the SHES and its Gimhae sub-station. Mary
Washington is currently being compared to three University of California
varieties, UC 711, UC 66 and UC 72. In its first year of growth, UC 711
seems to be more promising than the others; at Gimahe, it is outstandingly
the best. This is a well-established variety and popular in other asparagus
growing countries of the world, including Australia. If its present promise
is maintained, there will be every reason for replacing GG 500 in future.
Stem Blight Disease
14.       Stem Blight, a disease caused by Phoma Asparagi infection of
the stems has been seen in all asparagus plantings made to date in Korea.
It has been causing fairly considerable death of plant shoots, both in the
nursery at Gimhae and the first commercial plantings.
15.       Control trials by spraying are being carried out at the SHES
stations at Suweon and Gimhae and spraying with difolitan has given reasonable
control at Buyeo and Gumi. The incidence of this disease may be increased
by the excessively wet weather experienced in mid-summer in Korea. Adequate
control of the disease will be essential if full production is to be
obtained.
Yield Prospects
16.       None of the new asparagus is more than one year old.  Since harvest-
ing of the crop is not generally done until the third season of growth, it is
difficult to forecast the potential crop with any accuracy. AFDC forecasts
appear to be extremely optimistic. While yields in Korea may well exceed
those obtained in certain other countries, including parts of the US and
Australia, they are not likely to exceed Japan's where there is a very high
standard of horticulture. Estimates made in the field seemed to be confirmed
by statistics for Japanese production in 1973 - an average 3.03 tons/ha.
The table below compares AFDC's estimated yields with the mission's forecast.



ANNEX 3
Page  4
ASPARAGUS YIELDS (ton/ha)
AFDC              Mission
Year                     Estimate           Estimate
2                         0.25               -
3                         3.45              2.0
4                         4.5               3.0
5                         5.4               3.5
6                         7.5               4.0
7                         8.3               5.0
8                        10.7               5.0
9                         9.8               5.0
10                         9.2               4.0
11                         8.6               3.5
12                         7.0               3.0
13                         6.0               2.5
14                         5.0               2.0
15                         4.5               2.0
TOTAL PRODUCTION
YEARS 1-14                                 85.7              42.5                        _
AVERAGE PRODUCTION                                                                        W
YEARS 1-14                                  6.1               3.0
Future Potential
17.       It is estimated that there are more than 6,000 ha of suitable
river basin land which can be developed for asparagus cultivation. Of these
possibly 2,000 ha could be used in the immediate future, with a potential
production of 8,000-10,000 tons and involving about 1,000 farmers. However,
since technical knowledge regarding the production of asparagus in Korea
is limited, future development should be gradual. Particular attention
should be given to:
(a)  selection of suitable areas and soils.  Special care should
be taken to avoid soils in areas suffering from impeded
drainage or liable to the risk of flooding. A detailed
soil survey should be made; and
(b) control of stem blight disease.
Research and Training
18.       The SHES has undertaken some small-scale research in testing and
developing varieties suitable for commercial farming. The quality of the
research is satisfactory, but some increase in scope is needed.  Although
the AFDC has a horticulturist specializing in on-farm development of asparagus
on its permanent staff, his knowledge and experience are limited and he would
need some foreign training.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
w
Major Features of the Proposed Project
19.       Contract farmers under AFDC supervision would, over four years,
bring 435 ha under asparagus cultivation in three locations, as follows:
Year                   Gumi         Buyeo      Wanju      Total
Area (ha)
1                      45          30           -         75
2                      50          30           -         80
3                      50          40          50        140
4                      50          40          50        140
Total              195         140         100       435
20.       It is expected that more than 217 farmers, with average holdings
of 2 ha of dry land in river basins, would be selected under the Project.
Credit would be provided for the two-year growing period to cover investment
items such as purchase of crowns, tools, fertilizers, chemicals, etc. The
AFDC, under the supervision of the SHES, would develop an asparagus nursery
to supply crowns to selected farmers. To improve the extension service,
the AFDC horticulturist, specializing in asparagus cultivation, would be
trained in Japan. To supervise on-farm production, the services of a foreign
consultant would also be financed for a period of two months per year for
two years.
21.       Since the incremental production would be marketed in canned form,
finance is provided under the project to equip four existing canneries to
process asparaguis. It is expected that processors and farmers would enter
into contracts for the purchase of farmers' production at a fixed price.
The AFDC has proposed a farmgate price of Won 90/kg but it is considered
that a price of Won 100-130 should be paid. It is estimated that at full
development a farmer's annual incremental income would amount to Won 200,000
and about 130,000 standard cases would be exported, contributing net incremental
foreign exchange earnings of about US$1.2 million.
22.       The present limited phase should be considered as a "pilot" project,
leading to a considerable expansion of both on-farm development and process-
ing, thereby providing employment and increased incomes for a large number
of farmers.
0






ANNEX 4
Page 1
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Strawberry Production
Background
1.        Strawberry culture was first introduced to Korea about 50 years
ago. Production is based on local variety "Seoul University No. 1",
grown on paddy fields as a second crop. This variety, with large, light
red irregularly-shaped berries, is soft in texture and suitable only for
the fresh market. Hence most production has been concentrated in the
outskirts of major urban areas to supply the fresh market.
2.        The SHES, in cooperation with USAID, has investigated the possi-
bility of introducing new improved varieties suitable for both the fresh
market and processing. In 1965/66 some 29 varieties were imported from the
U.S. and tested at the Suweon Station. In 1969/70, a further 94,000 plants
of the more promising varieties were imported and distributed to commercial
growers in Wonju, Okju, Iksan and Chonju but no attempt was made to integrate
p roduction with processing and all crops had to be sold fresh. Local markets
were glutted, following the production increases, leading to very sharp
declines in prices and many farmers abandoned production.
Government Policy
3.        The government's policy is to increase rice farmers' incomes by
promoting production of high value commercial crops, such as strawberries
which can be grown in paddy fields from the autumn until the spring in
place of barley, the present off-season crop, which gives a very low
income. Efforts are under way to improve the strawberry varieties and
cultivation practices and to integrate production with processing, thereby
providing a profitable market outlet to the farmers. The Government has made
the AFDC responsible for the commercial development of strawberries.
Recent Developments
4.        In 1970, the AFDC imported the "America" variety, suitable for
processing, for propagation and distribution to farmers. The AFDC distributed
runners free of charge to contract farmers, on the understanding that they
would return one, or in some cases two, runners to the AFDC at the end of
the year. These, in turn, were distributed to new strawberry farmers on
the same terms. The area grown for the AFDC has now increased from 10 ha
in 1972 to 35 ha in 1973 in the Hayang area and a further 5 ha has been
established in the Muan district in the southwest. In 1973, the AFDC
O        commenced freezing of strawberries and exported 40 tons to Japan, where



-ANEX 4
Page  2
a growing demand for frozen strawberries provides a large potential market
oLtlet. Similarly the Hyupsung Nonjsan company in Taegu have contracted
with farmers to grow strawberries. The firm imported plants from the U.S.
to distribute to farmers. In 1973, the Company froze five tons of straw-
berries for export and is planning to increase this significantly in 1974.
Climate
S.        Although Korea lies in the same latitude as the-major
strawberry-growing areas of California, low winter temperatures generally
prevail and production is consequently limited to a crop maturing during
the latter part of May and the first half of June. However there are
many areas of the southwest and southeast where the relatively milder
winter climate is more favorable to good yields than the colder areas in
the central or northern parts of the country. Such an area is Muan in
the southwest, near Mogpo, where the AFDC has recently established a new
production area.
6.        Although total annual rainfall in the greater part of the country
is between 800-1,600 mm, the spring and.autumn months are relatively dry,
the bulk of the rainfall occuring from the latter part of June and extending
until early September. On the dryer uplands, there may be too little moisture
for satisfactory cropping of strawberries unless irrigation is employed,
which is difficult under present conditions.
Soils
7.        Strawberry roots are very sensitive to impeded soil drainage and
will not tolerate waterlogged soils either in winter or during the growing
season. At the same time, they require adequate soil moisture to establish
the young plants in autumn and to aid fruit swelling. They grow best on
well drained loams of good depth with an adequate supply of organic matter
and water.
8.        In most rice paddies, once the rice has been harvested in
October the soil is compacted and drainage conditions poor; in fact, the
worst conditions for planting strawberries. It is therefore essential to
select those paddies where strawberries are to be grown with great care.
Soils should not have a high clay content and should be well dried out after
the rice harvest. In addition, the soil should be well prepared by several
cultivations and the compost should be added to reduce large clods. AFDC
is now exercising greater care in selection of paddy fields and preparation
than in their early contracts with farmers. It is nevertheless, of such
importance that continuous emphasis is needed.
9.        The alternative to production in paddy fields is to grow straw-
berries on their own or as a three year crop on dry land. Where such land
is available - and cannot be more usefully employed for other crops
permitting several harvests a year - production of strawberries is well
worthwhile.  Sloping sites unsuitable for rice can be used successfully



ANNEX 4
Page 3
for strawberries. A limiting factor may be the absence of moisture during
fruit swelling period. AFDC has already arranged contracts with some
growers on such sites both in the Hayang and Muan areas. Of the 35 ha
grown for cropping in the Hayang area in 1973, 20 ha is in paddy and 15 ha
on dry land.
Varieties
10.       The "America" variety, suitable for processing, makes a clear,
bright red jam, which is preferred by the Japanese consumer to the much
darker jam made from other varieties. Since Japan is expected to be Korea's
major outlet for export of processed strawberries, the choice of new
varieties must take this preference intc) account.
11.       The "America" variety has certain drawbacks from the growers'
point of view. Its berries are small and require additional labor for
picking. Yields are only moderate. Until better replacement varieties
have been imported, undergone initial tests and have been propagated from
virus tested mother plants, this variety should continue to be used.
12.       Other factors limit the choice of varieties in Korea.  Since
most strawberries are grown in paddies after the rice harvest, and picked
prior to the planting of the next rice crop, time of planting and harvest
of varieties is extremely important. The Suweon Horticultural Station has
carried out trials on several imported varieties and plans to import others.
Among those to be tested under Korean conditions, two varieties may prove
suitable for Japanese processing needs and are also suitable for the
fresh fruit market. The British variety, "Cambridge Favourite", is now
widely grown in the U.K. and elsewhere. It is used for making jams in the
U.K. which are exported to Japan and have been readily accepted because of
their medium red color. It has a very heavy cropping capacity and is
adaptable to varying climatic conditions. The berries are large and firm
and transport well. The U.S. variety, "Red Chief", has medium to large
berries. The skin is glossy red. It is a very good variety for freezing
and its flavor is good as fresh fruit.
Virus Diseases of Strawberries
13.       Two of the principal virus diseases, Yellow leaf and crinkle,
are spread by the strawberry aphid (Chaetosiphon Fragafolii). There is
some evidence that plants in Korea were affected by both these viruses.
The only method used so far to eliminate these diseases has been an
abortive attempt to grow strawberry runners in an isolated mountain
area. Although this is necessary to produce virus free seed potatoes, it
is not adequate for strawberries.
14.       The spread of disease is being enhanced by the normal method
of propagation used in Korea. Runners are taken from parent plants after
they have finished fruiting and any disease of the parent plant is
perpetuated in the runners. This is especially true of virus diseases
which can have a devastating effect on cropping.



ANNEX 4
Page  4
15.       To ensure virus-free strawberry runners, a limited number of
plants need to be grown in an insect-proof glasshouse where they can be
tested for virus content. If found free, they can be used for further
propagation. If found to be affected, and if no healthy material is
available, treatment by heat therapy and culture from apical meristem
tissue of the plant would result in production of virus free progeny.
Paddy Production
16.       Apart from the problem of unsatisfactory soil conditions, growing
strawberries after rice affects strawberry yields. Strawberry runners
cannot be planted until the rice has been harvested and the soil suitably
prepared. Usually, planting is done some time in October or even early
November. The strawberries must then be picked and the soil prepared
for the next rice planting by the middle of June.
17.       Experiments in Korea and many other countries have shown that
yields are strongly affected by the time of planting of runners. As
planting is delayed from early September until October or early November,
there is an increasing reduction of crop. This can be minimized, to some
extent, by planting a well-developed transplanted runner which, after some
weeks in the nursery, can be carefully moved to its fruiting position.
18.       The selection of paddies in the warmer areas of the south would,
also permit earlier planting of strawberries.  In these areas, early                    _
varieties of rice are cultivated which permit harvesting to be completed
by early October. In addition, the later onset of cold weather allows
for better establishment of the strawberry plant and better formation of
the flowers for the next year's fruit.
Dry Land Production
19.       Prior to 1973, AFDC's policy was to arrange contracts with
farmers to grow strawberries on their paddies. Since then, it has entered
into contracts for the production of strawberries as a three year crop on
dry land. In October 1973, planting in the Hayang area was 20 ha in rice
paddies and 15 ha on dry land. At Muan, 5 ha of dry land strawberries
was planted, and it is expected that half the strawberries in this area
will be a one year paddy crop and half, a three year dry land crop.
20.       A lack of irrigation facilities and the alternative use of
land for the more profitable multiple cropping with vegetables might limit
such production, especially in the vicinity of towns. Nevertheless,
since plants are left in the ground for three years, the investment cost
of planting material is much less: Won 10,800 annually for paddy production
compared to Won 3,000 annually for dry land for 0.1 ha.
21.       Although planting so far has been done in October, future
planting in early September should have a major effect in increasing
yields of the first year's crop.



A&NEX 4
___L                                                                      Page  5
Planting Material
22.       No work has been carried out to raise virus-free strawberry
plants.  In other countries, the introduction of virus-free planting
material has had a dramatic effect on increasing yields - sometimes by
as much as 100%.
23.       The introduction of virus-free plants is considered vitally
important in the development of production. The SHES would be capable
of carrying out the research, testing and distribution of such material
provided that additional training of one virologist was undertaken and
an additional insect-free glasshouse was built.
24.       The virologist could undergo training at the East Malling
Research Station in the U.K. This station was responsible for pioneer
work on this subject and still raises, tests and produces virus-free
plants for the U.K. strawberry industry.
Major Features of the Project
25.       No investment financing is needed for expanding on-farm strawberry
cultivation, since the growing period is short and three crops may be
obtain.F' each year.  It is estimated that over three years, about 300 ha
would .- -7,ught under improved varieties of strawberries in Hayang, Muan,
Namji and Ginhae. About 60-65 ha would be developed in each of these four
locations. The AFDC would select the sub-borrowers and enter into a
contract whereby the latter would grow strawberries under AFDC's technical
supervision. In addition the AFDC would ensure that the farmers'
incremental production would be purchased by the freezing plants financed
under the project. Farmers and processors would enter into long-term
contracts. Annual prices would be determined by the processors, in con-
sultation with the farmers. The system would be similar to that followed
in the case of mushroom growers, which has proved satisfactory to all
concexaed. No problem is foreseen in following this system for strawberries.
26.       A Propagation Center would be constructed at Suveon and operated
by SHES to produce virus-free healthy strawberry runners which would be
distributed to farmers by AFDC. A virologist from the SHES would be
trained abroad in modern propagation techniques. In addition, training
would be provided for the AFDC staff member responsible for on-farm
development to improve his technical knowledge and experience. The services
of an expatriate consultant would be financed for two months, per year for
two years to supervise the propagation of strawberry runners and on-farm
development.
27.       It is expected that about 1,500 farmers would participate under
the Project and the yields would increase as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page  6
Yield
(tons per ha)
Without Project           7.0- 9.0
With Project             15.0-18.0
The total incremental production (3,000 tons) would be processed by the
project's freezing plants, resulting in annual incremental export earnings
of about US$1 million.
28.       Under the Project, the major emphasis is on improving technical
knowledge concerning strawberry production in Korea, and on establishing
a link between production and processing. The success of this project
could lead to further expansion of both on-farm development and processing
operations, since Korea possesses the basic requirements, climate, soil
and labor. Such an expansion would involve a large number of private
farmers, providing them with a profitable income and employment opportunities.
w



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Present Status of Fruit and Vegetable Cannin& and Freezing Industry
Background
1.        At present, there are 54 canneries, four owned by AFDC and the
remainder by private entrepreneurs. The canneries were established between
1965 and 1970. Equipment then used was alreatdy outdated. They are widely
scattered all over the eastern, western and southern parts of the country.
Most of them pack mushrooms; however, 20 canneries are integrated and process
peaches, mushrooms and other vegetables.
2.        Of the existing canneries, 34 are small (packing less than 20,000
standard cases of 24 one pound cans annually), 15 are medium-sized (packing
between 20,000 - 40,000 cases annually), and five are large (packing more
than 40,000 cases annually).  Daily processing capacities of vmall, medium
and large canneries are less than 5 tons, 5-10 tons and over 10 tons respec-
IRW        tively.  Most of them have unsanitary facilities; canning practices are
inefficient and quality control is non-existent. Consequently, Korean canned
products are extremely susceptible to botulism and other types of spoilage.
Production costs are also high.  The industry employs about 4,500 people who
are directly engaged in processing operations.
3.        Canned mushrooms and white peaches account for almost the
entire production, of the fruit and vegetable canning industry.  Between 1969
and 1973, the production of these items increased as follows:
1969      1972       1973
(Estimated)
--    In '000 Standard Cases--
Canned mushrooms (16 oz. can)         225      1,000      1,100
Canned peaches (425 gram can)         100        500        700
Canned mushrooms are sold entirely in the export market; 90% of canned
peaches are exported and the remainder are marketed domestically. In 1973,
export earnings from both these items were about US$12.0 million (Annex 8).
4.        The recent increase in cases of botulism in canned products has
forced importing countries to institute and enforce extremely strict
regulations to ensure product safety. In July 1973, for example, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration -FDA) introduced new regulations requiring
that manufacturing, processing and packing facilities of exporters be
examined and licensed by an authorized FDA emplopee. Failure to comply or



ANNEX 5
Page  2
to meet the minimum hygiene requirements results in banning of imports from
that company. Present canning facilities in Korea cannot meet these
standards without major modernization. Large funds, particularly foreign
exchange, are required for modernization.
Government Policy
5.        In 1973, the Government introducec a credit program for rehabili-
tation of the industry; however, due to lack of funds, efforts so far have
not been very effective. The Government plan calls for modernization,
integration and diversification. Construction of new facilities is not
being encouraged. Emphasis is being placed on multi-product processing to
achieve optimum utilization of plant facilities and the labor force as well
as to reduce the present dependence of the canning industry on one or two
crops such as mushrooms. Modernization (modern equipment and techniques)
coupled with diversification would enhance Korea's internatioaal competitive-
ness in agro-industries products. The Government, to implemenat these plans,
is relying on official assistance from international institutions such as
the World Bank and is discouraging the industry from accepting suppliers'
credits.
Government Regulating Agencies
6.        The National Agricultural Products Inspection Office (NAPIO), an            A
age;ncy for MAF and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MESA), are              _
responsible for regulating the quality and safety of canned products.  MHSA
is responsible for the domestic market and NAPIO for exports. However
only one set of standards is applied, which is less stringent than that of
major importing countries. Moreover, quality standards and regulations
are outdated. It is proposed under the Project that the Project Unit would
as6ist NAPIO in revising quality control standards to bring them in line
with international requirements.
Canning Facilities and Practices
Mushroom Canneries
7.        Typical Cannery Operations.  Freshly cut mushrooms, transported in
baskets, reach the canneries 2-4 hours after harvest and are canned the same
day. Mushrooms are weighed on platform scales, graded for price determination,
dumped into cold water in large concrete tanks which are often lined with
ceramic tile, and soaked for about 30 minutes. They are then transferred
manually on to a link chain conveyor for trimming stems and sorting into
grades. Open veil mushrooms are directed into a "stem and pieces" (S&P)
grade; closed veil to "whole", "button" or "fancy slice" grades and defective
tissues are removed from the line. Empty cans are hand washed in cold water
and transferred manually to flat top filling tables.  All grades are hand
filled into containers, a labor intensive method, which are then weighed
and adjusted by hand. The salt water with ascorbic acid (brine water) is



ANNEX 5
Page 3
prepared in batches, heated to about 90C in large double-packed steam kettles
and poured manually from pitchers into weighed cans of mushrooms which
results in variable head spaces. Filled cans are either conveyed through an
exhauster and seamed with standard closers or vacuum seamed withouft
exhausting. Sometimes seamed cans are washed by hand before retorting.
Cans are hand loaded into horizontal retort baskets. Prior to shipment, cans
are labeled by hand and cased.
8.        Cannery Facilities.  Most canneries are unscreened, poorly lighted
and operated without hoods, ducts, and exhaust fans for removing steam.
Ceiling and wall surfaces are unsanitary. Floors are not properly sloped or
pitched with inadequate and poorly designed drains. Water, fuel and elec-
trical utilities, together with boiler capacities and solid and liquid waste
disposal practices, are adequate. No cannery has cold storage facilities.
Product washing systems are inadequate and ineffective in removing loose
soil particles from the surface of mushrooms. Retort systems, used in
sterilizing canned mushrooms, are improperly designed. Retort pressure
gauges, calibrated mercury thermometers, air bleeders and recorders are
insufficient and out-dated. Sanitary control of water used in cooling cans
after retort is inadequate. All these factors increase the susceptibility
of Korean canned products to botulism and other types of spoilage.
9.        Inefficiencies.  Inadequate facilities, outdated equipment and
processing practices result in lower canned pound yield and capacity utiliza-
tion.  The average shrinkage in Korean canneries is about 45%, resulting in
a canned pound yield of only 55% (in the US and Europe, canned pound yield
is about 65%). In 1972, about 75% of the existing cannery capacity was uti-
lized. Major factors contributing to these inefficiencies are:
(a) poor processing equipment design resulting in crushing, dropping
or spillage;
(b) abusive and excessive handling practices, partly related to
the discontinuous nature of product flow;
(c) canning without first cooling fresh mushrooms;
(d) retorting at 121'C, instead of 130C; and
(e) non-automatic and slow seamers.
These inefficiencies lead to higher production cost.
10.       Importing Countries Requirements.  Major importing countries
require that canneries be equipped with appropriate insect screens on all
openings, sanitary hoods, ducts and exhaust fans, to prevent steam condensa-
tion forming on the ceiling. In addition, processing equipment must comply
with sanitary designs (e.g. surfaces of equipment contacting food must be



ANNEX 5
Page  4                 _
of stainless steel, etc.) and control equipment (retort, etc.) must be
modern and effective. Existing canning facilities cannot meet these
requirements.
11.       Conclusions.  Korean mushroom canners are fully aware that their
canning facilities need to be modernized to comply with importing countries'
regulations and to increase the efficiency of their operations to compete
more effectively in international trade.
Integrated Canneries
12.       There are 20 canneries which are integrated and process peaches,
mushrooms and other vegetables. Most peach processing lines have a daily
capacity of about 10 tons, resulting in an average can-filling rate of 50/
minute and daily packs of 1,000 cases. The advantage of integrated peach/
mushroom canning facilities is that equipment such as graders, sorters,
trimmers, weighing machines, and seamers, etc. could be utilized for canning
both. Without the integrated approach, the cost of a peach canning line
would be increased by about 30%, rendering it prohibitive to many canners.
Most of these canneries have idle space for additional lines.
13.       Many of the integrated canneries suffer from the same deficiencies
as the mushroom canneries.  Equipment flows are neither integrated nor                  _
properly scaled, adversely affecting product quality and operational
efficiency.  None of these canneries have cold storages and hence it is                 W
difficult to control the quality and supply of fresh peaches. This affects
the quality of canned peaches as well as the utilization of the installed
capacity.
Asparagus Canning
14.       At present, due to lack of fresh production, asparagus canning
is non-existent. However, in 1973, without purchasing specialized equipment,
500 standard cases (425 grams) were canned for trial packing and marketed
successfully. The asparagus canning season of about 60 days (May and June)
coincides with that of mushrooms. However a sufficient number of canners
exists, with idle processing schedules in these months in potential
asparagus-producing areas, which could be equipped for canning asparagus.
In addition, most of these canneries already have low acid sterilizing
systems (essential for asparagus canning) and are interested in diversifying
their canning operations.
Freezing Industry
Frozen Strawberries and Spinach
15.       At present there are three plants freezing fruits and vegetables.
However existing facilities and equipment are outdated and operating
practices are inefficient.  Present freezing method consists of a regular
cold storage room (-30C) and prior to freezing, fruits and vegetables



A_ilk                                                                     ANNEX 5
_qw                                                                      Page  5
are hand-washed, sorted and trimmed. These cleaning and washing practices
are insufficient and unsatisfactory; the sanitary conditions of the process-
ing area and equipment are also inadequate. All these factors result in a
poor quality product and high production costs.
16.       Strawberries are separated into two quality grades:  whole,
uniformly colored berries are comibined with sugar in a 4:1 ratio and frozen
in 20 kg blocks for export to remanufacturers in Japan. Lower grade
berries are made into jam and packed in either 8 or 16-oz jars. Jams are
marketed both domestically and exported. In 1973, the total production of
frozen strawberries was 45 metric tons.
17.       The present freezing practicet; for spinach are:  fresh spinach
is dry-sorted in insufficiently lighted areas by unskilled labor. After
sorting, spinach is soaked in cold non-agitated water and then conveyed in
a low-pressure spray wash. Washed spinach is conveyed continuously on a
chain-link belt through a steam blancher and water cooler. The chain-link
belt is a cause of excessive product loss. Subsequently the cooled spinach
is weighed and placed in shallow rectangular trays which are transferred to
a shelf-freezer where the spinach is frozen during a four-hour cycle. Frozen
spinach is either placed in separate poly bags or is bulk-packaged in 20-kg
cartons for storage.  The present practLce does not produce high quality
frozen spinach and the unit cost is high. Similarly the sanitary conditions
=W       of the freezing area and equipment are not satisfactory.  In 1973 about 460
tons of frozen spinach was produced, which was sold entirely in the export
market.
18.       Korea has the potential to expand the freezing industry.  However
modern equipment is required and freezing practices need improvement. Empha-
sis should be on the individual quick frozen system, which is more profitable
than the present block freezing method. The present knowledge of freezing
techniques is limited and must be improved if the industry is to expand.
Shiitake Drying
19.       There are over 30 small shiitake drying facilities located in
mountain areas. The drying method consists of placing freshly-harvested
shiitake on trays placed in a vertical duct, heated by a natural air draft
connected to a clay constructed firebed fed with brush, leaves and old oak
logs. Even with the best efforts to control temperature and tray position,
the drying methods causes a non-uniform drying rate, resulting in a high
loss rate and poor quality product.
20.       With modern drying facilities quality could be improved and loss
rate reduced, resulting in a higher grade product and lower drying costs.
This could enhance Korea's competitiveness considerably in the shiitake
export market.
.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC)
Objectives and Functions
1.        The AFDC was incorporated as a legal entity in 1967 to develop
and promote industries for storing and processing agricultural, forestry,
livestock and fishery products. Major AFDC functions as provided by the
1967 Act are to:
(a) finance equity investments and long and short-term
loans for the development of industries producing,
storing, processing and marketing agricultural and
fishery products;
(b) encourage domestic and foreign investment in such
industries;
(c) provide technical and managerial guidance, training and
information for relevant industries, encouraging the
application of advanced technology and promoting research
activities;
(d) create and develop domestic and export marketing of
agriculture and fishery products;
(e) introduce an improved institutional framework for
agro-industry development and promoting effective vertical
and horizontal integration of primary production,
secdndary processing and marketing distribution; and
(f)  undertake other related business and activities, specifically
requested by the Government.
Organization and Management
2.        The AFDC is headed by a President who is appointed by the
President of the Republic of Korea for a period of three years. There is
an Executive Vice-President, three Vice-Presidents and an Auditor who,
along with the President of the Corporation, form the Board of Directors.
The Executive Vice President and Vice-Presidents are appointed by the
President of the Corporation with the approval of the Government for a
period of three years. The Auditor is appointed by the President of the
Republic for a period of two years. All these executives may be
reappointed.



ANNEX 6
Page  2
3.        The  AFDC is divided into eight departments:  Planning, Emergency
Planning, Development, Business, Trade, General Affairs, Auditing and
Production. (A detailed Organization Chart is presented as Appendix A).
Each Department is headed by a Manager. There are 182 staff members,
consisting of accountants, financial analysts, agronomists, processing
specialists and marketing experts. The staff is well trained but lacks
experience. The majority of staff members are college graduates. The
AFDC recruitment policy is sound. All new recruits are given suitable
on-the-job training and, wherever possible and considered desirable,
external and overseas training is arranged. Accounting and financial
functions are at present decentralized and generally handled by more than
one department. Collection and reporting of financial data is also weak.
Centralizaton of these functions would achieve better financial control,
making possible the preparation of more effective management information
and providing simplification of methods and systems. To review and improve
the present accounting and financial information system, a study is being
financed under the project which would be undertaken by a management con-
sulting firm. Terms of Reference for this study are presented in Annex 11.
Development Department
4.        This department is responsible for planning and implementing
new agro-industry projects.  It has a headquarters staff of 17 (credit                 _
specialists, financial analysts, agronomists and processing experts).
This department, along with the Business Department appraises farmers and              W
processers for AFDC loans. Appraisal consists of examination of sub-
borrowers credit standing, technical feasibility and financial viability
of the proposed project. Details of the procedure for the selection of
farmers is given in Annex 7, para 6. As of September 1973, AFDC has
lent Won 2 billion (US$5.0 million) to farmers and private processors
engaged in agro-industries.
Food Processing Center
5.        The center was established in 1971 as part of the AFDC Organization.
It is financed by the UNDP and the ROK.  Its primary objective is to
improve technology and technical assistance for agro-industries in Korea.
However it has not been very effective, since the terms of reference are
too broad and it lacks adequate staff.
Activities and Achievements
6.        By the end of 1971/72, the AFDC had financed 21 agro-industry
projects: four cold storages, three sericulture, four food processing,
3 livestock, one marine culture, five processing projects and one in export
trading. AFDC-sponsored projects have attracted foreign equity capital as
well as long-term development loans from international organizations such
as the World Bank Group and the Asian Development Bank. The IFC has invested
US$276,000 as equity participation in Honam Silk Industry and sanctioned
a long-term loan of US$1.4 million.  The Korean Cold Storage Company Ltd.
received a long-term loan of US$5.0 million from the Asian Development Bank.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
w
7.        The AFDC has provided financial, i:echnical and marketing
assistance to relatively small agricultural processing industries. A
typical example of this effort has been the AFDC's mushroom export
program. Emphasis has also been placed on improving distribution systems.
The Korea Cold Storage Company, a fully-owned subsidiary of the AFDC, has
four refrigerated complexes in Seoul, Busan, Mogpo and Mukho. Additional cold
storage facilities for vegetables and fruits have been built in other areas
untder AFDC's sponsorship. Since 1972, as a special assignment from the
Government, the AFDC has also been responsible for developing commercial
farming of labor-intensive crops, such as asparagus and strawberries. The
AFDC provides working capital and technical assistance to selected farmers; it
has also undertaken the production of healthy, virus-free asparagus crowns
for distribution to the farmers.
Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies
8.        By the end of 1971, the AFDC had made equity investments in
22 agro-industries and provided them with long, medium and short-term
loans. Technical and managerial assistance and training for these
enterprises was also provided by the AFDC. The AFDC's policy is to sell
its equity holdings as soon as an enterprise becomes viable. The AFDC is
thus planning to sell its interest in 15 of these companies.
Scurces of Funds
9.        AFDC's total funds as of September 1973 (adjusted by the mission)
were Won 15 Billion (US$37.5 million) made up of issued capital (Won 10 bil-
lion - US$25 million) and loans (Won 5 billion - US$12.5 million) provided
mainly by the Government. About 70% of AFDC's funds was tied up in
subsidiaries and affiliates (Won 3.5 billion - US$8.8 million) as equity
and Won 7 blllion (US$17.5 million) in loans. In addition Won 2 billion
(US$5.0 million) has been lent to processers and farmers engaged in agro-
industries and fishery production. The AFDC's ability to meet its
liabilities is contingent upon the ability of its debtors to meet their
obligations promptly. Most of the AFDC subsidiaries and companies are
comparatively new in their operations and have not been able to meet their
obligations, thus compelling the AFDC to seek postponement of their own
debt obligations from the Government, its principal creditor. As of
September 30, 1973, Won 1.1 billion (US$2.75 million) was due for payment
to the Government by the AFDC, but this has been postponed. AFDC's liquidity
position, therefore, requires strengthening at least until such time as the
operations of its subsidiaries become fully developed. In the absence of a
long-term forecast, it was not possible to ascertain AFDC's future cash
requirements. This is one of the limitations which would be reviewed and
improved under the proposed study.
Balance Sheet and Income Statements
10.       AFDC's summarized balance sheets and profit and loss accounts
for the period December 1969 to September 1973 are given in Tables 1 and 2.,
respectively. In 1972, the AFDC's net income was Won 752 M (US$1.9 million),



ANNEX 6
Page  4                 _
which is satisfactory, considering its primary role as a development agency.
Export revenue has become a major source of income for the AFDC, contributing
56% in 1972, and 75% during the first nine months of 1973. Income from in-
terest and commissions has declined; it contributed 32% of the total income
in 1972 but declined to 14% in-1973. This is due to the sale by AFDC of its
subsidiaries. Thus, in future, exports will become AFDC's major source of
income.
Audit
11.       AFDC's accounts are audited internally by the auditor, who is
also an executive of the Corporation. The auditor has a separate staff
who are permanent employes of the Corporation. The audit is conducted
in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, which
covers the audits of Government-invested corporations. This audit is
not independent and hence under the project an independent auditor,
satisfactory to the Bank, would audit the project account and would submit
a statement to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial
year. Audit guidelines for the project account would be discussed during
negotiations.
AFDC/Project Unit
1.2.      The loan would be made directly to the AFDC and would be                    w
guaranteed by the Government. Under the Vice-President of the Development
Department of AFDC, a Project Unit would be established. Organization of
the Project Unit is shown in Appendix B of this Annex. The Unit would be
headed by an internationally recruited Project Manager, who would be ex-
perienced in modern canning and freezing techniques. The qualifications
and terms of reference of the Project Manager are given in Annex 13.  Re
would head the Project Unit for two years. The Project Unit would be
divided into three sections and would be staffed as follows:
(a) Technical: would consist of eight experts, made up as follows:
Two canning experts
Two freezing experts
Four on-farm development experts in
mushrooms, shiitake, strawberries
and asparagus.
(b)  Appraisal:  would consist of four experts made up as follows:
Two financial analysts
One credit specialist
One accountant



ANNEX 6
Page  5
(c)  !Artin:  a minimum of three staff members would be required,
made up as follows:
One marketing specialist
One economist
One statistician
Each of these Sections would be headed by a Section Chief. Most of the
staff is already available in the AFDC. However one economist and one
statistician would be hired. The members of the Project Unit woulQ be
trained in project appraisal and supervision procedures by the Pro4ect
Manager and the Section Chiefs.
13.       In addition, the following staff would be trained abroad under
the project:
(a) Two agronomists, one specializing in strawberries and
one in asparagus cultivation; and
(b) two processing experts, one specializing in canning and
the other in freezing operations.
14.       The Project Unit would be responsible for appraisal and supervision
of sub-borrowers. Loans appraised by the Unit would be disbursed to sub-
borrowers through NACF, since the latter organizatior, is the only government
agency responsible for channeling agricultural credit. NACF would also col-
lect repayments from sub-borrowers on behalf of AFDC. The AFDC would estab-
lish a Project Account, with an initial deposit of Won 275 M at NACF. MACF
would pay interest at the prevailing government rate on undisbursed funds in
the AFDC Project Account. NACF would maintain a separate account for AFDC
for this Project and would provide weekly statements to AFDC. AFDC would
pay to NACF a maximum handling charge of 0.5% per annum for the collectioa
and disbursement of funds. Although AFDC would enter into a Basic Contract
with sub-borrowers and would be responsible for supervision, a Subsidiary
Contract would also be signed between NACF and sub-borrowers outlining the
repayment schedule. The Participation Agreement between NACF and AFDC,
outlining NACF's role in the Project, would be approved by the Bank. Simi-
larly, AFDC, within three months of the effectiveness date, would submit to
the Bank for review and approval, the form or forms of Basic Contract (be-
tween AFDC and sub-borrowers).
15.       The Project Unit would develop and operate a nursery to provide
virus-free asDaragus crowns to be used under the Project, since AFDC is the
only institution with some experience in operating such a nursery. Simi-
larly, the Project Unit would be responsible for distributing to sub-borrow-
ers healthy, virus-free strawberry runners developed at the SEES. The Proj-
ect Unit would assist NAPIO in improving and revising quality control stand-
ards and regulations. The Unit would also provide training to processors
selected under the project in modern techniques, hygiene requirements and
canning practices. Such a training program would be designed and supervised



ANNEX 6
Page  6
by the Project Manager. The Project Unit would also prepare a simple
canning and freezing manual to be distributed to processors participating
under the Project.
.



AiNNEX 6
Table 1
_
KOREA
IN~EfERATEDGRICULJT(TL-PRODUfTS PLOCESSING PROJECT
AFDC -Sumarized Balance Sheets - Dec. 1969 =-Set.1273
(won million)
ASSETS                             1969     1970      1971     1972      1973
(to Sept. 30)
Current Assets:
Gash                          279       403      260       236      332
Accounts receivable trade      47      1333      2729     2548      2858
Merchandise                    70       273      670      1289      994
Short term loans to
affiliates          1623     1876      2%68     1647      1231
Other loans and credits       276       387      714      2457     2778
Total Current Assets:            2295      4272      7041     6177      5193
Fixed Assets:
Tangible assets, less
depreciation                42        59      310       829      844
Intangible assets              83        85       85        88      108
Long term loans to
_nik         affiliates                 1223     2069      2756     2900      3773
Investmaents in affiliates   2151      3048     4567      3788      3512
Other investments             198       481       52       917      996
Total Pixed Assets:               3697     5742      7770     8522      9233
Deferred Assets                     41       53        20       44        49
Grand Total Assets:              6023    10067    14831    16743    17h75
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short term debt                78       713     1394      1662      2266
Accrued expenses                 2       45      137       143       145
Other                          43      1292     3432      3100     2847
Total Current Liabilities:        123      2050      4963     4905      5255
Fixed Liabilities:
Long term debt                305      1360      2182     2770     2469
Reserve for severance pay      14         9         3        9        6
Other                         600        -        49       ((6)      (19)
Total Fixed Liabilities:          919      1369     2234      2785      2456
Equity:
Paid-up capital              5000      6500      7300     8600      8600
Capital surplus                 1         2       20        23        23
Unappropriated earnings       (10)      146      314       829     1138
Total Equity:                    4991      6648      7634     9052      9761
Grand Total Liabilities:         6033    10067    14831    16743    17472
.          March 8, 1974



LNNEX 6
Table 2            f
lw
KORIFA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS BY PROCESSING PROJECT
AFD---  umarized pr2it  and Loss Accounts - 1969-73
(won million)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973 (to Sept.)
Operating Revenues:
Exports                         170      627     902      1,613        1,730
Domestic Sales                   318     442      363       332          265
Coxmmission                       4       67       6         36            9
Intorest                        4iL      527      744       895          312
Less                                 807   1,663   2,015      2,876        2,316
Operating Expenses:
Exports                         152      544     693      1,150        1,393
Domestic Sales                  261      416      345       314          -35
Interest                         32      184      334       361          254
445   1,144   LIE        1,825        1,882
Gross operating Profit               362     519      643     1,051          434
Less Selling & Adcin. Expenses       387     388      395       263          236
Operating Profit                     (25)    130      248       788          198
Non operating income (net)            40      31   ( )    (36)                38
Net Incomne for Year                  15     161      207       752          236
March 8, 1974L



*                                                                                        0t                                                                                       0
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
A F D C Organization Chart As At October 31, 1973 I/                                                 AUDITOR
RBae, Suck Kwon  50  2
MANAGER                Grade 2  2
BOAD OFS                                PRESIDENT                       CHIEF                                              CHIEF OF AUDITING OFFICE    Grade 3  2
DIRECTOOR                       Choi, Doo Yul 41  2 |SECRETARYJ                                                           I Kim, Jinf Suck    7   2       Grade 4  1
Grade 3  1
TOTAL
|EXEC. VICE PRESIDENT LTTA 
| Km,  hun  Oh50  2 | 
|                                       | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOOD PROCESSING CENTER|   P. EMRGENCY PLANNINIG |
l                                             ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~MANAGERll MAGE
I                                       l                                           I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kim, Kyung Hoo  51  6 ||ParkDaIn43
Section ChieCE 3RESIDENT Se n C s  3                                                         Section Chiefs  1 Sec n  V3   P D ection Chiefs 3Grade  3   1
GaVICE PRESIDENT                                                           Lee, Chul Mo                         Park, Sang Gung  44             Grade  2         4        Grade  4   1
GrCho, Han Ik   52  2   a |      ,                          a                                                         GGade  3                                   3        Other       1
I   I                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grade  4  6  TOTAL 3
BUSINESS DEPT.                                                                    I  1NgN   ET   DVLPETDP    GENERAL AFFAIR DEPT.  TRADINiG DEPT  Grade  5       2
MAMANAGER                   AAE(ATNMg)MANAGER                                                                           MANAGER              TOTAL           17
Lee, Sang Duck 43 21|Lee, Sang  o4                          h   ogKa  41  5              iKim, Duck Joong  48  2        Kim, Jae Ki  _43  5
Section Chiefs  3    Section Chiefs  3                    Section Chiefs  I                Section Chiefs  3           S<ection Chiefs  3
Grade  3         4    Grade  3          4                 Grade  2         1               Grade  2         1          Grade  3         7
Grade  4        13    Grade  4          7                 Grade  3         4               Grade  3         6          Grade  4         6
Grade  5         1    Grade  5          2                 Grade  4         5               Grade  4         6          Grade  5         2
Other           4    Other              -                 Grade  5         3               Grade  5         7
other           2               Other           23
TOTAL           25    TOTAL            16                 TOTAL            T               TOTAL           7           TOTAL           18
SUW1MARY
President, Vice Presidents & Auditor   5                                   i/ Figures in boxes represent ages and years of service
Department Managers                       8
Section Chiefs                           14                                 v   In November 1973, Mr. C.O. Kim, the F.xecutive vice President,
Grade  2                                  8                                     was appointed President in succession to Mr. Choi whose term of
Grade  3                                 30                                     office expired.  Mr. Kwan Shik Chai, formerly asst. Vice vinister
Grade  4                                 45                                     of agriculture succeeded Mr. Kim; a 4 other Vice presidents and
Grade  5                                 19                                     the Auditor were re-appointed to their posts.
Other, including secretaries             31
AFDC Factories Staff                     20
TOTAL                                    _






*                                                                               0t                                                                               0
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE PROJECT UNIT
STEERING COMMITTEE
A.F.D.C.
VICE-PRESIDENT
(DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT)
SUWEON HORTICULTURAL                                           POETMNGRWRDBN
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH                                       COPROJECT MANAGER                                              WREVIEWN
STATI ON                                           C-ROETMNGE                                                         EIE
|  TECHNICAL SEGTION                            _APPRAISA L SECTIOJN                                                   MARKETIIIG SECTION
would consist of 8 experts,                                   would consist of 4 experts,                         a minimum of 3 staff members would
made up as follows:                                           made up as follows:                                 be required, made up as follows:
canning experts - 2                                             financial analysts - 2                                marketing specialist - 1
freezing experts - 2                                            credit specialist -1                                  economist - 1
on-farm development experts in                                  accountant - 1                                        statistician - 1
mushrooms, shiitake, strawberries
and asparagus - 4.
World Bank 8576(R)
tUJ






ANNEX 7
Page 1
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Horticultural Research and Extension Service
Suweon Horticultural Experimental Station (SHES)
1.       SSHES, a branch of ORD under MAF, located in Suweon near Seoul, is
responsible for horticultural research and experimental work. This station,
established in 1961, has 40 research workers and 12 technical assistants.
It is divided into three sections: fruits, vegetables and flowers.
2.        The fruit section tests strawberry varieties and production method,
while the vegetable section recently started work on asparagus including
varieties, methods of cultivation and pest and disease control. Some work
has been done on virus diseases and the production of virus free planting
material. Special attention has been paid to carnations, and virus free
plants raised in the insect proof glasshouse at the station have been supplied
to the industry. The glasshouse was specially built for the purpose in 1971
and enables a nucleus of virus-free plants to be maintained as propagation
material, free of risk of new virus infection being brought to them by insect
-        vectors.
3.        SHES has two branch stations at Dongnae and Gimhae, both in the
southeast of the country, and two branch farms at Yaesan and Chungwon.
The Dongnae station is mainly concerned with vegetable crops and flowers
and the Gimhae station with fruit trees, including rootstocks and inspection
of fruit tree nurseries. With the growing interest in asparagus cultivation
in Korea, a senior research worker from Suweon was recently transferred to
Gimhae to take charge of asparagus experiments and trials. The soil at the
Gimhae station is considered particularly suited to this crop. Work has
begun on variety trials of asparagus together with trials on disease control,
spacing, methods of cultivation and use of fertilizers. The trial at Gimhae,
although only in its first year is already showing the considerable promise
of one of the University of California varieties, U.C. 711. Some progress
is also being made on the control of the disease, Stem Blight. Similar
trials to those at Gimhae on asparagus are being conducted at SHES but here
the soil conditions are not so suited to the crop.
4.        At present, the research work at Suweon does not include the testing
of strawberry plants and production of virus free runners. Such work as is
already being done with carnations could be of particular value to the whole
strawberry industry in Korea provided that a separate propagation house is
built. In other countries the introduction of planting material free of
virus infection had a dramatic effect on increasing yields - as much as 100%.



ANNEX ?
Page  2                 _
Extension Service
5.        ORD, MAF agency is responsible for providing technical assistance
to farmers. It has a total staff of some 7,000 people, of whom about 300 are
classified as horticultural specialists. They are stationed in major horti-
cultural crop production areas and work in conjunction with local, provincial
and district officers. The value and effectiveness of their service varies
cconsiderably.
The Role of AFDC
6.        The AFDC plays a significant role in developing commercial farming
of horticultural products. Once AFDC has decided to extend production of
a particular crop, its technical staff, with the aid of a headquarters'
specialist, prepares information on the crop. This includes production data
and details of costings and profitability. Information is disseminated
at village meetings to which potential contracting farmers are invited.
Slides and other visual aids are employed as necessary together with wall
charts and leaflets on production methods which can be given to farmers.
Once a farmer has expressed interest, his farm is visited by AFDC staff
who make their final selection of farms taking into account the soil suitabi-
lity and the competence of the farmers, etc.
7.        During the past year, AFDC appointed two horticulturists (one
specializing in asparagus and the other in strawberries) to their headquarters w
staff. The technical knowledge and experience of the AFDC staff engaged in
on-farm development of asparagus and strawberries are limited and need
further training. The AFDC also has a number of technical specialists
stationed at their processing plants who visit farms to select farmers to
grow crops for AFDC or to give basic instruction or advice.
SHES Role under the Project
8.        SHES would operate the strawberry propagation center to be built
under the project as well as provide technical assistance to the AFDC/Project
Unit for developing asparagus and strawberry production.



ANNEX 8
_                                                                           Page  1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Markets, Prospects, Prices and Marketing Arrangements
Introduction
1.        The project's incremental production (canned mushrooms, peaches
and asparagus, frozen strawberries and spinach, dried shiitake and freeze-
dried leeks and parsley - Annex 16, Table 3), would primarily be exported.
Japan, Europe (the Federal Republic of Germany, Scandinavia, Switzerland
and the U.K.), Canada and the US would be the principal export markets.
As a result of increasing per capita income and rising labor costs (the
project commodities are very labor-intensive) in these countries, import
demand for these commodities is expected to increase. Korea, with a suitable
climate and soil and relatively cheap labor readily available, is an economic
_dshk       producer and is thus able to compete efficiently in the export market.  In
addition, Korea's close geographical proximity to Japan, a major importer
of these items, also provides an advantage in exporting these commodities,
since transportation cost is very low. This factor has become of greater
significance in view of the recent oil shortage.
Canned Mushrooms
2.        Major World Producers - The US, the Republic of China, the
Netherlands, France, the U.K. and Korea are the major producers of canned
mushrooms. It is estimated 1/ that in 1971/72 world production amounted to
about 18-20 million standard cases 2/, of which the US produced about 30%,
followed by the Republic of China (about 20%); France, the Netherlands and
the U.K. together accounted for about 30%. Korea produced about 5% of
world production. Although the People's Republic of China is considered
to be a major producer of this commodity, no information is available either
on quality or production. According to estimates made by trade sources, the
People's Republic of China produces about 10% of total world production.
1/   Most of the countries do not publish their production figures; these
have been compiled by the mission, based on different sources. Since
some of the figures are available on the fresh weight basis and some
are available on a product weight basis, a 0.60 canned pound yield
has been used to convert fresh weight into product weight.
2/   Standard cases - 24 cans, 16 oz net.



ANNEX 8               _
Page 2
w
3.        World Production Prospects - both production and canning of mush-
rooms are highly labor-intensive. Moreover, in spite of mechanization
efforts, certain operations, particularly i: production (such as picking
of crops), will continue to rely on labor. Since wage rates are increasing
in industrialized countries much faster than the world market prices for
canned mushrooms, it is expected that production will remain at the present
level in these countries. The major source of supply will be the countries
where wage rates are lower and the climate suitable. This means that the
Republic of China, Korea and the People's Republic of China will become
more significant suppliers of this commodity. However, as described in
Annex 1, the Republic of China's climate is less suitable and wage rates
are higher than in Korea. In addition, the Republic of China is experiencing
an acute shortage of labor. In view of these facts, it is projected that
although the Republic of China's production will increase, its present share
in world production will remain constant. Korea has both suitable climate
and abundant cheap labor, which makes it the most economic producer of this
commodity. It is expected that Korea's present share in the world trade
will increase to about 8% by 1980.
4.        In the absence of detailed information about production in the
Petople's Republic of China, it is very difficult to make any meaningful
projections. However it is assumed here that the People's Republic of
China will also increase its production, resulting in an increase of its              _
present share from 10% to 15%.
Demand
5.        Major Importers:  The Federal Republic of Germany and the U.S. are
the major importers of canned mushrooms, followed by Canada, Switzerland
and Scandinavia. The present and future import demand prospects in these
countries are analyzed below.
6.        The Federal Republic of Germany, the world's largest importer,
relies entirely on imports to meet its domestic demand. Imports have risen
from 1.4 million standard cases in 1966 to 5.5 million cases in 1972. Major
suppliers to this market are the Republic of China, France and the Nether-
lands. In 1966, the Republic of China supplied about 65% of total West
German imports, France and the Netherlands together accounted for 30%.
However in 1971 this distribution had been reversed. France and the Nether-
lands together supplied 60% and the Republic of China 30%. This is ptimarily
because France and the Netherlands, as members of the EEC, have an advantage
over a non-member supplier. Korea's share has been insignificant. In 1971
it supplied less than 3% of total West German imports. This is primarily
because of the lack of appropriate market arrangements and promotional
activities.
7.        In 1971-72, annual per capita consumption of canned mushrooms was
about 2 lb. This is expected to increase to about 3 lb by 1980, because
West Germans use canned mushrooms as a side vegetable, rather than for
seasoning and flavoring in cooking.  It is estimated that by 1980, the total
demand would be between 8-10 million cases. Projected future share of the



_dohL                                                                     ANNEX 8
Page 3
w
major suppliers would be as follows: France and the Netherlands, 55%; the
Republic of China, 30%; Korea, 10%; People's Republic of China, 5%. In
deriving these shares, a number of factors have been taken into consideration,
such as the production capacity of France and the Netherlands, EEC tariffs,
improved quality of Korean mushrooms as well as the Korean Government's
promotional activities presently under way. If It is expected that by 1980,
Korea would export about 800,000 standard cases to the Federal Republic of
Germany.
8.        United States.  Although the US is a major producer, it is also a
major importer of canned mushrooms. Imports have increased from 0.5 million
standard cases in 1962 to about 2 million standard cases in 1972. Imports,
as a share of total consumption, have increased from 19% in 1962/63 to 33%
in 1971/72 (Table 1). Although the Republic of China is the major supplier
tco this market, its share has declined; in 1966167, it supplied more than
90% of total US imports. This has declined to 75% in 1971/72. Korea is
the second major supplier. Its share averaged about 25% of total US imports
in 1972 (Table 2).
9.        Annual per capita consumption of canned mushrooms has increased
from 0.45 lb in 1970 to 0.60 lb in 1973. Per capita consumption is ex-
pected to increase to 0.70 lb by 1980. In deriving this figure, the
following factors have been taken into consideration:
(a) canned mushrooms would be used primarily as a source of
flavoring and seasoning and for institutional and re-
manufacturing uses.
(b) since mushrooms are low in calories, their popularity
is increasing, as a result of the growing emphasis on
health foods.
(c)  the recent suspected incidents of botulism will have an
adverse effect on per capita consumption from a short-term
point of view.  However in the long run (1980), this will
have no significant impact.  For example in the early
'sixties, the tuna canning industry experienced a similar
situation. In the short term, per capita consumption
1/   AFDC is planning to establish a branch office in the Federal Republic
of Germany to accelerate marketing efforts there. In addition, the
Korean Government has introduced a plan whereby Korean importers of
West German products would also handle the exports of mushrooms to
the Federal Republic of Germany and their imports of German items
would be determined by their mushroom export performance. In
addition, a number of well-known German importing firms have been
appointed as sales representatives for Korean mushrooms in the
0              Federal Republic of Germany.



ANNEX 8              _
Page  4
declined, but it soon regained its normal popularity.
Moreover the US FDA is taking all possible precautions to
ensure the safety of canned mushrooms.
Taking these factor into consideration, it is estimated that the total
consumption for canned mushrooms in 1980 will be 7 million standard cases.
10.       Recently the domestic US mushroom industry has brought a great
deal of pressure on the government to retstrict imports. The President
appointed a Tariff Comission to study this aspect. Although its report
(TC, Publication 580, Washington DC) has been inconclusive in its final
recommendations, the present on-going efforts are nevertheless expected
to result in a reduction of imports. It is therefore assumed that, by
1980, imports will decline to 30% of total consumption, compared to the
present 33%. Thus the total quantity imported would be between 2 - 2.5 mil-
lion standard cases, similar to the 1971/1972 imports.
II.       It is estimated that the Republic of China will remain the major
supplier of this market, followed by Korea. However the shares of both
these countries would decline. The People's Republic of China, whose
political relations with the US have considerably improved, would become
a third major supplier.  Taking these factors into consideration, it is             _
estimated that the shares of these suppliers, by 1980, would be:
Share of the US market
Present           1980
The Republic of China                 75                70
Korea                                 25                20
People's Republic of China            nil               10
This means that by 1980, Korea's exports to the US could amount to
400,000 cases, similar to the 1971/72 level.
12.       Canada is another major market for canned mushrooms relying pri-
marily on imports to meet domestic demand. In 1972, its imports amounted to
0.5 million cases. Consumption has been rising and it is expected that by
1980 annual per capita consumption of canned mushrooms would be 1.5 lb
and total imports would be about 2 million cases. At present major sup-
pliers are the Republic of China (65%), and the People's Republic of China
(25%); Korea has a very insignificant share in this market, primarily due
to the lack of availability of the 5-oz. can size which Canada imports.
As a result of the diversification of can sizes and the improved quality
under the project, it is expected that by 1980, Korea would be able to
capture about 10% of the market, resulting in exports of about 200,000 stand-
ard cases.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
w
Korea's Production
13.       In 1973, about 1.1 million standard cases were produced.  Under
the project, by 1980, incremental production would be 450,000 cases; thus the
total supply available for the export market would be about 1.5 million cases.
Demand/Supply Balance
14.       Korea's total production would be marketed as follows:
Quantity in standard cases      Percentage
Major Markets                    (in thousands)            Distribution
The Federal Republic
of Germany                        800                        50
U.S.                                 400                       25
Canada                               200                       12
Switzerland/Scandinavla              200                       13
Total Demand       1,600                      100
Korea's Total Production           1,500
Thus it appears that Korea will have no- problem in marketing the total
-         canned mushroom production, including incremental production.  In these
calculations, very conservative estimates have been used both for calculat-
ing importing countries demand and Korea's share. In fact Korea may have to
expand its production to meet the future increased export demand for canned
mushrooms.
Markets for Project's Other Commodities
15.       The incremental production of other commodities would be primarily
marketed in Japan and Europe. The export demand for canned white peaches
has been rising, but their supply is limited to Japan and Korea. In the
past Korea has received large orders for this commodity, but was unabLe to
meet them due to the lack of p:ocessing facilities and poor quality.  Simi-
larly, in the last two years Korea has received large orders from Japan for
frozen strawberries and spinach, but has been unable to fulfill these due
to the lack of adequate freezing plants. In the case of shiitake, a profLt-
able and growing market exists in Japan and in other countries in Far East.
In view of these facts, and as a result of improved quality under the pro;-
ect, Korea would have no difficulty in marketing incremental production
which is expected to be marketed as follows:
0



ANNEX 8
Page  6                W
Percentage Distribution of
Commodities           Export Markets for Incremental Production
_ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    _l
Japan/a                  ____/b
_____a_'-                 Europe-
Canned Peaches                   70                        30
Canned Asparagus                 70                        30
Frozen Strawberries             100                        --
Frozen Spinach                  100
Dried Shiitake                   70                        30
/a   Also includes Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia.
/b   Primarily the Federal Republic of Germany, the U.K.,
Switzerland and Scandinavia.
Prices
16.       International prices of these commodities, with the exception of
mushrooms, have increased on average 10% per year in the last three years.          _
The canned mushroom prices in 1972 were US$18/standard case, but declined
to US$13 in early 1973.  However in November/December 1973, the price in-            W
creased to US$14/standard case. No further decline is foreseen by the
trade. The prices used in this report are given in Annex 14 and refer to
the average 1973 (fob Korea) prices. It is very likely thiat average 1973
prices will increase in the future; however due to recent economic uncer-
tainties in major importing countries, no price increase has been allowed.
Tariffs
17.       Present duties charged by major importing countries are not
prohibitive. Tariffs for mushrooms are: the Federal Republic of Germany
(23%), Japan (25%), Canada (12%), and the U.S. (3.2 cents/lb + 10% ad valorem
equivalent to about 15%). Import duties for canned asparagus range from
12%-20%.  Japan's import duties on strawberries, 35%, are rather high, but
Japan may agree to a preferential rate for frozen strawberries from devel-
oping countries, in line with a recent UNCTAD resolution. EEC tariffs may
also increase by 10%-12%, but no definite decision has yet been reached.
Export Marketing Arrangements
18.       At present all horticultural export marketing is undertaken by
the AFDC, NACF and the private processors. The AFDC and NACF, both
agencies of the MAF, together export about 80% of canned mushrooms and the
remainder is marketed by the private sector. The role of the private sector
has been increasing and is expected to become more important in the future.
NACF, primarily a credit institution, lacks both experience and expertise
required for the export market. The Government is currently considering



____                                                                      A~NNEX 8
Page 7
w
appointing the AFDC as the only government agency responsible for the
export of agro-industry products. This would further assist Korea in its
export efforts. The major shortcoming in the export marketing system is
that at present there is no institution responsible for providing market
intelligence, or undertaking promotional activities. AFDC is considering
establishing branches in the U.S., U.K. and other parts of Europe to fill
this need. To improve its export efforts, local agents are being
appointed in each of the major markets, who would be responsible for handling
Korea's agro-industry products on a commission basis.
19.       Incremental production from the project would be primarily
marketed through AFDC and the private exporters. In addition, a
Marketing Section would be established in the Project Unit, which would
be responsible for preparing and distributing market intelligence to
processors and exporters.
Marketing Support Services
20.       Transportation.  The existing road network in Korea is adequate to
meet the future expansion of the industry, as envisaged under the Project.
There are about 20 international haulage companies (K-Line, Sealand, etc)
which provide frequent, efficient and economic transportation services.
There is no shortage of refrigerated trucks. Adequate cargo services link
_        Korean ports to Japan and other markets.  Frequent and fast refrigerated
cargo services already exist between Busan and Osaka (36 hours) and Busan
and Yokahama (less than 50 hours).
21.       Brokers.  There are more than 30 licensed brokers located around
the country who provide handling and other services to exporters at a
very low cost (about 2% of total export value). Export facilities at Busan
harbor are adequate and are being modernized under a Bank-financed project
(Loan 917-KO).
22.       Can Production and Packaging Industries.  At present there are
three privately owned can manufacturing companies. Two of these have
technical agreements with Japanese firms. Th quality of the cans is con-
trolled by the National Industrial Research Institute and is satisfactory.
Raw tinplate, imported from Japan, is finished in Korea. The packaging
industry (manufacture of cartons, lithograph printing on cans, printing of
labels) is fairly advanced and competitive.
Conclusions
23.       Market prospects and marketing arrangements are satisfactory.
No major difficulty is anticipated in profitably marketing the incremental
production resulting from the Project. In addition, as a result of rising
domestic per capita income and increased tourism in Korea, incremental
production would also fill the needs of the domestic market for processed
foods on a year-round basis.






ANNEX 8
Table 1
KOREA
ThJT irJATED AGRTCULTURAI, P!ZODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
U.,. Imports of Canned Mushrooms
(huantity on Processed ?roduct leight Bagis)
Marketing       Sales of                           Apparent        Ratio of imports
(uyear1           U.S.           Imports        consumption            to
June 30)       Product                                              consumption
(In million nounds)                        %
1962/o3          44                10                54                  19
1963/64          43                14                57                   25
1964/65          44                10                54                  19
1965/66          47                14                61                  23
1966/67          47                17                64                  27
lqw      1967/68          52                22                74                  30
1968/69          62                20                82                  24
1969/70          65                27                92                  29
-970/71          75                28               103                  27
1971/72          83                40               123                  33
Source:  U.7. Tariff Commission, Pyiushrooms, Report to the President on Investigation,
No. 332-72, 'Wlashington, D.C., may 1973, page A-89.



ANNEX 8
Tab]e 2               W
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODITCTS PROCESSI.G PROJECT
Major Suppliers of Canned Mushrooms
1966 - 192
Major Importing Countries          Major Suppliers and Their Share of the Total
Import in %
1966              1970            1971           1972
TJ SA,A                       Taiwan - 91      Taiwan - 88       Taiwan - 80    Taiwan -
Korea - Neg     Korea  -  1       Korea  -  8    Korea  - 25
r.R.China -     P.R.China -       P.R. China -   P.R.China -
Taiwan - 90     Taiwan - 77       Taiwan - 66    Taiwan - 65
Canada                        P.R. China-2    P.R. China-18    P.R. China-24  P.R.China-25
Korea - Nil     Korea - Ni1       Korea - Neg    Korea - Neg
West 'Germany                 Taiwan - 65      Taiwan - 32       Taiwan'- 31    Taiwan - 20
France   22     France - 30       France - 32    France - 32
Holland - 10    Holland - 30      Holland - 30   Holland - 30
Korea - 1       Korea - 3         Korea - 3       Korea - 3
P.R. China -    P.R. China -      P.R.China -3   P.R.China - 5
Nil             Nil
Taiwan - 35     Taiwar - 18
Japan - 30      Japan - 2
France - 17     France - 4
Dermark - 12    Denmark - 22          N. A.          N. A.
Korea - 2       Korea - 10
P.R. China -Neg  p.R.China-3.4
R/ Refers to the period Jsnuary - September only (9 months)
February 20, 1974



ANNEX 9
_                                                                           Page  I
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Major Characteristics of Modernization of Canning
and Freezing Facilities
Mushroom Canneries
1.        Over three years 22 canneries, presently processing only mushrooms,
would be modernized. Major features of this modernization would consist of:
(a) Facility Improvement: Doors and windows would be
screened; walls and ceilings would be sanitized;
hoods, ducts and exhaust fans would be installed
and floors would be properly sloped to ensure good
drainage.
(b)  Equipment:  Equipment surfaces contacting mushrooms
would be replaced by stainless steel; a modern
agitated product washing system would be installed;
approved retort and monitoring control systems would
be added; blanchers, sorters, trimming conveyors,
slicers, and weighing equipment and seamers would be
modified or replaced.
(c) Cold Storage: Each of the 22 canneries would be
equipped with a cold storage sufficient to hold one
day's supply of fresh mushrooms.
2.        A detailed technical description of these changes is presented
in Appendix A. Equipment systems and proposed cannery practices are
described in Appendix B. Design characteristics of cold storage facility
are given in Appendix C and Chart I. The proposed flow chart and operations
for mushroom canneries are shown in Chart II. Detailed investment costs are
given in Annex 10.
3.        Modernization Benefits.  The modernization would enable the mush-
room canneries to meet international hygiene requirements; the quality of
products would improve. A higher percentage of Grade "A" (whole or "buttons")
mushrooms would be packed; 35% of total production would be packed in Grade
"A" (whole or "buttons") mushrooms instead of the present 25%.
4.        Canned pound yield would increase from the existing 55% to
60-62%.  Capacity utilization would increase from the present 75% to 80%.
Details of these benefits are presented in Table 1.



ANNEX 9
Page  2
5.        These improvements would reduce the present production cost by at
least 25% thus enabling Korea to compete more effectively in the international
trade of canned mushrooms. At full development (1980), incremental production
would be 450,000 standard cases (24 cans, 16 oz).
Integrated Canneries
6.        20 integrated canneries processing peaches/mushrooms/other vegeta-
bles would be modernized over three years. Modernization of mushroom lines
would be similar to that discussed in para 1. Each peach canning line would
have a daily capacity of 20 tons. Each of these integrated facilities would
have a cold storage, which would enable canneries to sort freshly harvested
peaches into three maturity grades: (1) those of proper maturity for canning
same day; these would either flow immediately on the canning line or would
be cold stored to prevent over-ripening; (2) those of slightly less maturity
would either be held at room temperature or cold stored for an appropriate
ripening period prior to canning; and (3) those of even less maturity would
be held at room temperature to hasten ripening. The advantage of cold
storages to canners would be a more uniform supply of peaches for canning
and increased utilization of the labor and installed capacity. The canneries
would also be able to produce an increased proportion of high grade peaches.
7.        Under the modernization plan, vacuum syrupers would be provided
for peach lines.  This equipment would be entirely new to Korean peach
canners, yet it has been used advantageously in developed countries for
the past decade. Use of a vacuum syruper negates the need for exhausting
cans prior to seaming, it improves color and flavor and simultaneously in-
creases canned pound yield by an average of about 5%. Incremental canned
peach production would be 1.2 million cases (425 gram can).
8.        The proposed product flow and canning operations for peaches are
given in Chart III.  Detailed inveatment costs are given in Annex 10.
Asparagus Canning
9.        Four existing canneries with low acid sterilizing systems, located
in the near vicinity of Gumi, Buyeo and Wanju, would be equipped to process
asparagus produced under the project. The daily capacity of each line would
be 10 tons of fresh asparagus. Equipment and facilities to be financed
would be similar to those for mushrooms. The proposed product flow and
asparagus canning operations are shown in Chart IV. Since asparagus is a
low acid food, susceptible to botulism, sanitary standards and processing
controls would be similar to those for mushrooms. Incremental production of
canned asparagus would be 130,000 cases (24 cans, 425 grams). Detailed in-
vestment costs are given in Annex 10.
Freezing of Strawberries and Spinach
10.       Two new freezing plants would be established in the Muan
and Kimhae areas over three years. One existing freezing plant in Hayang
would be modernized. Freezing plants would be equipped with individual



ANNEX 9
_shL                                                                     Page  3
quick freezing systems and would freeze strawberries and spinach. Daily
capacity of each plant would be 19 tons for strawberries and 16 tons for
spinach.
11.       Of the 19 tons daily capacity for strawberries, 8 tons of the best
grade berries would be "Individually Quick Frozen" (IQF) and bulk stored
in poly-sealed bin boxes at -30C. Another 8 tons of intermediate grade
berries would be mixed with sugar in a 4:1 ratio and blast frozen in 20-kg.
package "blocks" at -60C and stored at -30C. An average 6% (about 1.2
tons) of the daily packed volume would be waste or culls. The remaining
low quality berries would be placed in poly-lined barrels, blast fiozen
and stored at -30C. After the strawberry season, low quality barrel-packed
strawberries would be thawed, manufactured into jam and packed in 8 and 16 oz
jars for the donestic market. Because of the sugar added in making jam, an
original 8.5 ton daily volume would make three tons of finished jam. Medium-
quality block frozen berries packed with sugar would be exported primarily
to Japan for the manufacture of jam and other concentrated strawberry
products. The IQF berries would be packed in retail and institutional
sizes and exported at premium prices. The incremental production would be
1,200 tons of processed strawberries and about 200 tons of jam. The proposed
flow chart and processing operations for freezing strawberries are shown
in Chart V. Detailed investment costs are given in Annex 10.
12.       Each of the three facilities would freeze spinach for 150 days,
beginning in September of each year. The daily capacity of each of these
lines would be 20 tons of fresh spinach. Waste would be about 20%,
resulting in an 80% yield. Thus each line would have a daily capacity for
packing 16 tons of frozen spinach. Fresh spinach would be sorted on slow-
moving conveyors, washed with water sprays, while being tumbled in revolving
cylinders, inspected and sorted on slow-moving conveyors, steam-blenched
ane cooled while being conveyed on flat-top surfaces, drained and filled
into one or two kg packages, sealed and frozen in contact freezers. For
the remanufacturers' market, cooled and drained spinach would be bulk-
packaged in 20-kg boxes, sealed and blast frozen at -60C. The proposed
product flow and processing operations for freezing spinach are given in
Chart VI. Incremental production would be about 7,500 tons. Detailed
investment costs are given in Annex 10.
Shiitake Drying
13.       A maximum of seven new facilities would be financed over three
years and would be located close to the project production area.  T.e exact
number of drying facilities to be constructed under the project wau'4 be
determined during sub-appraisal by the Project Unit in consultation with
the Bank. These facilities would be owned and operated by individual
farmers or by a group of farmers in partnership. Fresh shiitake would be
sized and volume cleaned or washed in a continuous system designed to
convey a uniform flow of shiitake onto a continuous two-stage conveyor and
.        dryer.  The dryer would be designed to utilize the counter current flow
principle; meaning that the hot dry air mix would flow counter to zm
direction of product flow. The belt speed would be adjusted to accommodate



ANNEX 9                 -
Page  4                 _
increased drying time for shiitake depending upon size.  The proposed drying
system would improve the efficiency of the operation and the quality of the
project. Incremental production (360 tons of dried shiitake) would be
exported.
14.       In selecting the location of these dryers, the availability of
adequate electricity and water should be ensured. Detailed investment costs
are presented in Annex 10. The proposed layout for shiitake drying facility
is shown in Chart VII.



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 1
lqw
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Technical Description of Facility Improvement
Item                 Description                          Purpose
1.        Install 20 mesh screen or effective      To reduce the risk of
insect curtains over all doors, win-    incidental insect contamina-
dows and other accesses to cannery       tion in canned food.
facility. An average existing can-
nery contains about 50 m2 of un-
screened accesses.
2.        Apply smooth surfaces and provide        To eliminate pooling of
floor slopes of about 2.5 cm/3           waste water and improve
meter linear distance toward drains.    hygenic quality of canned
An average existing cannery con-         foods.
-dlbk-            tains about 850 m2 area of which
=                   one half or more needs improvement.
3.        Install new or improved floor drains.   To improve the hygenic qual-
Depending on the width of the pro-       ity of canned food, and to
cess area, one or more trench drains    reduce employee injuries.
with grated and recessed covers are
needed. Drains should be installed
at 6 to 8 meter intervals running
parallel to the process lines. An
average existing cannery is about 20
meters wide and would require 2 paral-
lel trench drains each of which
should be about 0.3 meters wide with
a pitch of 8 to 10 cm/5 linear meters
in order to remove all waste water
from the cannery operations without
pooling.
4.        Install sanitary ceilings.  The          To reduce the risk of inci-
exposed ceiling surfaces should be       dental dust and other parti-
non-porous, non-absorbent, non-          culate contaminates, and to
fragmentable, non-flaking, and           improve the hygenic quality
easily cleaned.  An average exist-       in canned food.
ing cannery will have about 850 m2
of ceiling area.



ANNEX 9                -
Appendix A             _
Page 2
Item                  Description                          Purpose
5.        Install sanitary wall surfaces to         To improve the hygenic
a height of 1-1/2 to 2 meters.            quality of canned foods.
Most internal walls are unfinished
concrete block or stucco. Accord-
ingly, they are very porous and
difficult to clean or sanitize. An
average existing cannery will have
about 800 m2 of wall area needing a
sanitary surface.
6.        Install sanitary hoods, ducts and         To prevent contaminating
exhaust fans of sufficient capacity,    canned foods with dripping
located to enable efficient removal       condensates from the
of all waste steam rising from the        ceiling.
blanching, brining, seaming, and re-
torting operations. An average
existing cannery will need at least
two exhaust fans capable of remov-
ing 100 to 200 m3 of air per minute;
one fan with appropriate ducts and
hoods to be located above the blan-                                         _
cher(s), and one above the retorts.
7.        Install lighting sufficient to            To improve employee
produce 20 foot candles of light          performance and safety,
intensity at the eye level over           and hygenic quality of
all inspecting, grading, filling,         canned food.
brining and seaming operations. An
average existing cannery will need
from 25 to 50 additional 4 tube,
40 watt 1.2 meter length light
fixtures.



-                                                                        ANNEX 9
Appendix B
Page I
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURUL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Proposed Equipment System and Practices
1.  Fresh Mushrooms
Within three to four hours after harvest, fresh cut mushrooms
will be weighed, graded and moved into a cold storage operated at 2+ 1C
and 85 to 90% RH and held preferably one day before canning. The cold
storage should be located within or adjacent to the present product receiv-
ing area of the cannery.
2.   Washing and Soaking
-milk                After cold storage, fresh mushrooms will be manually, but gently
transferred into a new product washer designed to utilize the new "fluidized"
cleaning principle.  Basically, the fluidized action is obtained by (a)
injecting high volumes of air below the surface of water and by (b) use of
multiple overhead sprays of 40-50 psi, low volume water. The counter-
action of two forces cleans mushrooms very effectively and without bruising.
The air is generated by a large attached blower while the water is recir-
culated, passing through attached filters and pumps each cycle. Fresh 40
psi water sprays mounted above the product flow on an inclined exit conveyor
serves as a final wash. Washed mushrooms will be discharged by conveyor
into existing soak tanks presently used for washing fresh mushrooms. After
soaking for half an hour or more, mushrooms will be transferred to either the
blancher or first to grading and inspection conveyors, then on to the blancher.
3.   Blanching
Continuous water, steam or water-steam combination blanchers
are preferred, depending on the cannery size. In canneries of 2 to 3 tons
daily capacity, batch type water blanchers and coolers will suffice. How-
ever, batch blanchers and coolers will be equipped with hinged baskets
to permit rapid and simple transfers between operations. The flat top metal
conveying surface of continuous blanchers will not contain openings in
excess of 5 mm, and will have attached appropriate flights and side rails
to prevent fragmentation and loss of mushrooms in the blancher. The duration
of blanching will be regulated to permit a minimum of 10 and 8 minutes exposure
to steam and boiling water, respectively, or of sufficient time to obtain a
minimum tissue center temperature of 81C.  Cooling will be of sufficient
duration to reduce center temperature of tissue to 30'C.



ANNEX 9               _
Appendix B            _
Page 2
4.   Grading and Inspection Conveyors
New or modified grading and inspecting conveyors and the
respective operations will conform to the following specifications. Con-
veyors will be approximately 90 cm wide and sufficiently long to accommo-
date the designed line capacities (approximately 4, 8, 12 meters for 5, 10,
and 15 m.t. per shift respectively. The conveying speed will be approximate-
ly 3 m/minutes. The framework of the conveyor will be of a sanitary design.
All side rails and lane dividers will be made of stainless steel. The
conveying belt surface will be made of a food-grade rubber composition.
Mounted to both sides of the conveyor frame will be 8 mm wide round-bottom
water flumes for discharging continuously all reject tissue from the grading
and inspection operation. Further, the rubber belt will be divided into
three equal-width lanes by use of two suspended strips measuring approximately
4 mm wide, 7 cm high, and running the length of the conveyor. These strips
will be suspended above the belt with hangers and with an adjustable clear-
ance from 2 mm to 5 cm. The two lane dividers will be bent and welded toge-
ther to form a cone, beginning approximately 30 cm from the point where mush-
rooms are loaded onto the conveyor. In this way, the middle lane will be
closed and its use will be reserved for conveying whole grade mushrooms.
Accordingly, mushrooms at the loading end will be directed to the outer lanes.
The first laborer on each side will distribute the mushrooms evenly across
the width of her respective lane. Subsequent laborers of sufficient numbers
will pick up only whole grade mushrooms, trim if needed, and discharge these
onto the center lane. Finally, enough laborers towards the discharge end of
the conveyor will sort, inspect and trim if necessary the S&P grade mush-
rooms remaining in the outer lanes. Whole grade mushrooms exiting the center
lane will flow continuously into a size grader. After sizing, mushrooms will
fall gently into separate bins partially filled with cold water.
5.   Slicing
The S&P grade mushrooms exiting the outer lanes of the grading
and inspection conveyor will flow continuously, preferably through a water
fed rotating knife slicer.
6.   Final Inspection
Sized whole grade mushrooms from the respective storage bins will
flow alternately across a final inspection conveyor, while sliced S&P
grade mushrooms will flow continuously onto a separate final inspection
conveyor. The design and operation of the final inspection conveyors will
be similar to that described for the grading and trimming conveyor, except
it will be of shorter length; will not contain the water flumes; and the
center lanes will be used for diverting rejects to a S&P pack in the case
of wholes, and for discharging reject tissue in the case of the S&P pack.



ANNEX 9
_dlh~                                                                    Appendix B
Page 3
w
7.   Fillers
Mushrooms exiting the outer lanes of the final inspection conveyors
will flow continuously onto a flat top table designed with block fillers, or
if capacity permits, onto a continuous circular pocket filler.
8.   Empty Can Washers
Via gravity conveyors, empty cans will flow continuously through
can washers where while inverted, cans are flushed with 90 C water at
40 psi. Cleaned cans will flow by gravity conveyors to a block filler
traying station or directly to circular pocket fillers.
9.   Can Handling Conveyor for the Weighing Operation
After filling, the weight of the filled contents will be adjusted
to achieve the proper fill weight for each container size. A two-level belt
can conveyor will be used to obtain a continuous flow of cans to and from
this operation. Filled unweighed containers will flow continuously onto
either level of the conveyor. Sufficient laborers and weigh stations off
both sides of the conveyor will be used to accommodate the flow rate of the
line. Laborers will transfer unweighed cans singly from the inflow be:lt,
adjust their weights and then transfer the cans to the alternate belt level
where they flow continuously to the brining operation.
10. Brining Operation
Tablets containing the appropriate quantities of salt and ascorbic
acid, dispensed into containers continuously and automatically are recommended.
Subsequently, via a continuous conveyor, cans will pass under a drip line
where a regulated flow of 95C water gently flows into each can. The drip
line is simply a 2 to 3 m length of 2-cm ID pipe with a row of small per-
forations located on its underside. The pipe will be mounted 4 or 5 cm
above and parallel to the can flow; and its water flow rate will be adjustable
by a series of 2 gate valves mounted in the water pipe feeding the drip line.
The water feed lines will also contain a quick reading dial thermometer to
enable the operator to check the water fill temperature easily and frequently.
The can conveyor used in conjunction with the drip line will be located
precisely to permit discharging cans continuously onto the rotary pick up
seamer disk which continuously feeds the containers into the seamer. The
motion of containers during the transfer to the rotary disk of the seamer
serves to adjust the headspace of the brine just prior to seaming.
11.   Exhausting and Seaming Operations
Proper removal of oxygen from the container before seaming may be
accomplished either by the use of an appropriate exhaust box or by using
.        vacuum seamers.  Seamers will be equipped with a 2 or 3 line, 10 digit



ANNEX 9
Appendix B
Page  4                 W
coders, variable speed, and will be of sufficient capacity to permit a con-
tinuous and balanced flow of operations. Washing of seamed cans before rotat-
ing is not recommended.
12.       Retorting and Cooling
All retort crates, retorts plumbing, controls and operations will
conform to the regulation 128B of "Good Manufacturing Practices for Low Acid
Foods", FDA/USA. In this way, safety of canned mushrooms can be insured by
the continuous monitoring of thermal processing operation. Moreover, the
accrued measurements for each retort load will be examined and approved daily
by qualified personnel.
13.       Elevation of Equipment
Quite obviously, if transfers between operations in the eannery
are to be continuous and designed to minimize the shrinkage of mushroom
tissue, very careful attention must be given to the elevation of all equip-
ment in the cannery. Each cannery will need customized planning before imple-
menting any of the modifications offered in either rehabilitation plan.
14.  General Equipment Design                                                          _
All new or modified equipment will be designed, and constructed
with approved materials and techniques in conformity with pertinent USDA
sanitary requirements for food processing equipment; all having the purpose
of minimizing hazards and contaminates in goods. Inherently, all equipment
surfaces must be easily cleaned. In brief, the pertinent elements of the
regulations require: (a) except for belts, the use of stainless steel for
surfaces in contact with food; (b) designs, when feasible, which prevent
the accumulation of waste particles on surfaces, and which permit easy
access to all surfaces for cleaning; and (c) the use of smooth neli Arc
welds for all joints contacting foods.
15. Plant Clean-up Practices
A small portable high pressure cleaning system will be used at
the end of each shift for cleaning the processing equipment. Using low
volume of water at pressures of 500 to 600 psi and appropriate cleaning
and sanitizing chemicals in a proper sequence will immensely reduce the
hazards and risks of spoilage in canned mushrooms. The cleaning sequence
is as follows: (a) all equipment will first be rinsed with cold water to
remove all loose mushroom pieces and dirt; (b) a low volume application of
cleaning solution at 500 psi will be applied to all equipment; (c) after
a 10 to 30 minute exposure, the equipment will be rinsed with cold water
at 500 psi; (d) all equipment surface contacting mushrooms beginning with
blancher and through the seamer will be sanitized by a high pressure, low
volume of spray of 10 to 20 ppm chlorine solution.



ANNEX 9
Appendix C
_lik                                                                    Page  1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Design Characteristics for Cold Storage Facility
Size of Cannery
Small      Medium       Large
I. Cold Storage Capacity (tons)                 5            10          20
(a) Bulk density of raw product (kg/m )   78              78         78
(b) Storage area needed for product (m )  64             128        256
(c) Stack height of product (meters)         2             2          2
(d) Floor area needed for product (m3)    32              64        128
(9 m ideal width of building;
_dik             providing two rows of 3 m wide
product storage area and one center
aisle 3 m wide, service area.)
(e) Ceiling height of storage (meters)       4             4          4
(f) Length of building (meters)              6            11         22
(g) Total area of building (m )             54            99        198
II. Characteristics of Refrigeration
Equipment
The unit coolers, cooling tower, condensing unit and controls will be
capable of maintaining 2 + 1 C temperature and an RH of 85 to 90 percent.
The air movement should not exceed 100 meters/minute. The refrigerant
and air temperature should not have a differential in excess of 5.5C.
Cooling capacity will be sufficient to reduce the respective 5, 10, and
20 tons loads from 21 to 2C within six hours.






_lik                                                                      ANNEX 9
_RW                                                                       Table I
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Benefits of Modernization Plan - Mushroom Canneries
Percent
Percent        Percent         Utilization              Labor
"Whole         Canned         of Processing             % Change
Year      Grade"           Yield           Capacity           Perm.        Temp.
0           25%             55                75
1         28 - 30           56                75                +5          -10
2         30 - 35           58                76               +10          -20
3         30 - 35           59                77               +10          -30
4         30 - 35           60                78               +10          -30
5         30 - 35           61                79               +10          -30
6         30 - 35           62                80               +10          -30
March 8, 1974






KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Diagram of Cold Storage Facility
Characteristics of Refrigeration Equipment
CTaAPR. I
/ I' 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
_               ~~/                    / 
'p      0~~~~~~~~~
4      / 
|^      3m               3m               3m
World Bank-8457






KOREA
Adak                                     INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
_qw                                          Flow  Chart and Processing Operations for Proposed  Mushroom
Canneries
ANNEX 
r,;JART !I
FLOW CHART
OPERATIONS
1.  Receive, palletize
A       s                                                             2.  Weigh
3.  Sample for Quality Grading
IM or                                                    4.  Cold Store 18 to 24 hrs.
g18 A                                                     5.  Agitated Wash
6.  Soak M2 to 2 hrs.
7.  Sort, Inspect, Trim
8.  Blanch and Cool
[-g- A              +' 9.  Sort, Trim, Inspect
1A /                        10.  Slice  (a) S&P (b) Whole
11 A                               lJ L  A 11.  Inspect
26   2        m                 ~~~~~~12.  Wash Empty Cans
13.  Fill Containers
14.  Weigh Containers
15.  Brine Containers
16.  Steam  Exhaust
A ;;              17.  Adjust Head Space
Ad l k                                                        18.  Vacuum Seam with Coded Lids
19.  Retort & Cool Containers
NW                                                                                                     20.  Case Containers and Palletize
21.  Warehouse
22.  Decase Containers
23.  Inspect and Label
24.  Recase Containers
25.  Ship
26.  Size Whole Grade
27.  Hold
28.  Waste Tissue
EF 
A              F
23  24                           2
*                                 Transfers
M = Manual
A = Automatic and Continuous
F = Fork Lift and Pallets provided in major rehabilitation plan only.
World Bank-8458(R)






KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Flow  Chart and Processing Operations for Canning Peaches
A1MEX 9
rCHART III
FLOW CHART
A  1F
OPERATIONS
1. Receiving
2. Weighing
3. Quality Grading
4. Quality Sorting and Palletizing
5. Cold Storing
6. Un refrigerated Storage
7. Sorting and Cutting
8. Waste Tissue
9. Coring
10. Aligning
A                      11. Peeling
12. Washing
165                                     13. Inspecting and Grading
AML                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14. Slicing
15. Filling (a) Wholes (b) Slices
16. Empty Can Washing
17. Weighing
18. Syrup Preparation
19. Vacuum Syruping
20. Seaming
21. Sterilizing and Cooling
22. Cleaning Cans
23. Labeling
24. Casing and Palletizing
25. Warehousing
26. Decasing
27. Inspecting and Labeling
28. Casing and Palletizing
29. Shipping
m                           m
F                        1F
Transfers
M = Manual
A = Automatic
F = Fork Lift
World Bank-8459(R)






w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Canning Asparagus
ANTEX 9
CHART IV
FLOW CHART
:    F
OPERATIONS
M      MF         F                                  1. Receiving and Palletize
-~y~YD~LJ                                                 2. Weighing
3. Grading
7 I                                             4. Cold Storing
5. Trimming and Sorting
l A                                            6. Waste Tissue
8                                               7. Agitated Wash
8. Inspection and Trimming
.  |A                                         9. Loan on Blanch Pans
9t                                             10. Blanch and Cool
11. Weigh for Filling
I A                                          12. Filling
13. Wash empty Cans
14. Brine Preparation
A                                             15. Brining
16. Exhaust Cans
11                                             17. Seam Cans
A                                             18. Retort and Cool
A                                          19. Clean Cans
12  13                             ~~~~~~~~~20. Casing
1A                                           21. Palletize
A                                          22. Warehouse
A
1A
17                                              Transfers
M = Manual
l M                                           A = Automatic and Continuous
18                                               F = Fork Lift
W
World Bank-8463






_Alik                                              KOREA
w              INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Freezing Strawberries
TNmEX 9
FLOW CHART                                                                                      CART V
OPERATIONS
A1                                          1. Receiving
2. Weighing
A      A                                              3. Sampling and Grading
4. Dry Cleaning and Washing
5. Sorting into Grades
6. Waste Tissue
7. Trimming Jam Grade Berries
8. Inspection IQF Grade Berries
9. Inspecting "Block Grab" Berries
1O 1 - 5       1;;1                          10. IQF Freezing
11. Filling for Bulk Storage
Adak                     A                                         12. Warehousing at -300
13. Repackaging for Market
"Row  15   L  J14. Shipping
15. Mixing 4:1 with Dry Sugar
16. Filling in 20 kg. Cartons
17. Weighing
18. Blast Freezing
19. Filling into Polylined Barrels
20. Thawing
21. Concentrating
22. Adding Sugar, Pectin, Acids
23. Jar Filling
24. Weighing
25. Sealing
26. Inverting Jars
27. Labeling
28. Casing
29. Warehousing at 15-200 C
Transfers
M = Manual
A = Automatic
F = Fork Lift
World Bank-8462






w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Flow Chart and Processing Operations for Freezing Spinach
MTNEX 9
FLOW CHART                               OPERATIONS                                     CHTART VI
1                                          1. Receiving
2. Weighing
3. Sampling for Quality Grading
4. Sorting
5. Cleaning and Drying
6. Washing
r n                                        7. Grading and Inspecting
8. Blanching and Cooling
9. Draining
10. Filling into 20 kg Packages
10. Filling into 20 kg Packages
11. Filling into 1 kg Packages
5                                         12. Weighing and Sealing
13. Blast Freezing
14. Warehousing at -30u C
6                                         15. Shipping
16. Weighing
17. Contact Freezing
7                                         18. Casing
Transfers
M = Manual
10              1 1                         A = Automatic
F = Fork Lift
13  17
World Bank-8461(R)






KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Layout for Shiitake Drying Facility
w
A7 7"EX ^
rJ,; LF" .  -T T
Raw  Product
Storage Area
Washer
Product Receiving
and Shipping
Office
Adlbk                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~2-Stage
W                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drier
Rest
25m                                        Room
LPackaging Line|
Lab Area           Dried Product
Storage Area      I
Im Scale
8m                     |
World Bank-8460






*                                                    41                                                    41
KORE&
INTEGRLTED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment CoDts and Technical Description
Smmary of Cost Estimates
Inves tment Cost     Physical                  Price Contingency            Total
Contingency
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Forei'  Total Local Foreign  Total
-_____ll__--_---------- Ml1ion Wbn ---------------------------------------------------
On-Fam Development
Mshrooms                   401      601  1,002      40      60      100    159      239    398    600       900  1,500
Asparagus                    85      128    213      9       13      21     16       23      39    109      164    273
Shiitake                   163       245    408     17      24       41     39       60     99    219       329    548
Sub-Total               7TM1 TM                      T7       X              ;            w 53 X           1i,    2,321
II   Processing
Mushrooms                  209      389    598     32      58       90     46       85    131    287       532    819
Peaches & Mushrooms       752    1,396  2,148    112      210     322    209       388    597  1,073    1,994  3,067
Asparagus                   19       36     55      3       5        8      4        8      12     26       49      75
Freezing                  385       716  1,101     58     108      166     78      145    223    521       969  1,490
Shiitake Drying            10        19     29      1               4       3        4       7     14       26     40
Sub-Total                1,377    2,      3,931    206    3v 590    Mo-             3o     o75  1,921    3,570  5,491
III  Technical Assistance        17       151    168                              2       18     20      19      169    188
Total ProJect Cost       2,041    3,681  5,722    271      481      752    556      970  1526  2,868    , 2  8.ooo
_ _



KORFA
INTEGPATED ACRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investmeent Costs and Technical Description
Dn-Fa.1m Development - Modernization of Mushroom Houses
Private                         Farmers                         Factory
Farmer                          Association                     Owned Farm
Investment Items                                       Unit          300 Pyongs       Unit            1700 Pyongs         Unit       2000 Pyongs        Local       Foreign      ToLal      Foreign
1.  Boiler System
Boiler, Water Softening                        0.5 ton                                                              2.5
System, Piping and Pumps & Installation                   800                   2.5 ton 3,050                     ton   3,050              1I,1140      2,760        6,9Oo         40
Fuel Tankis & Installation                                    35                            LIO                               10                215         4U
Building & Construction                                      220                             850                              850             1,920           -        1,920
Pipes from  Boiler to Growitg Houses                          55 _                           700                              700               875         580        i, 45_,       l
1,110                                  04,760                                      7,150   503 5 145 _,_30    -33
2.  Iron Frames  j                                    2.25 m/tons    900                               5,100                          5,100            2,775         8,325       11,100      75
per 100 pyong
3.  Exhaust Fans                                      1 fan per        60                                340                            340               148          592          740      80
100 pyongs
Ii.  Casing Soil (Shed/Sterilization Bins)                             60                                340                            340               444          296          740      40
5.  Heatcing Pipes                                    60 ft. per      120                                680                            680            1,148         1,332        1,480      go
100 pyongs
6.  Concrete Floors                                   1500-1600 sq.  390                              2,210                           2,210            1,405         3,405        4,810      70
ft. per 100
pyongs
7.  Rice StraUw Cutter (Mechanical)                                    _                                 391                            391                79          703          782      90
(2 Hf.P. Motor)
Total Investment Costs                                             2,640                             13,821                          13,821           13,139       18,133        30,282      60
Phasing - Won '000
Year 1                  Year 2                     Year 3                    Year 4
No. of       Cost        No. of       Cost          No. of       Cost         No. of       Cost         Local        Foreign      Total        Foreign
Units                    Units                      IJnits                    Units
Investment Costs
Individual farmer - 300 pyong farms                 14           36960       50            132000       85           224400       105          277200       268224         402336     670560
Farmers' Association - 1700 pyong farms                                        2           27642         6            82926         6           82926        77398        116096      193494
Factory owned - 2000 pyong farms                                                                         5            69105         5           69105        55284         82926      138210
36960                    15964a                     376431i                   429231       400906       601358      102264        60          a
Physical Contingency lO%                                         3 69                      15964                       37143                    42923        40090        60135        100226                     c
40656                     175606                    414074                    472154       440996       661493      1102490
Price Contingency                                                 5000                      31000                    106000                    256000       159000       239000        398000
45656                    206666                     520074                    728154       599996       900493      1500490
R/ eplacements
(a) Iron Frames - 30% every 5 years
(b) Exhaust fans - Every 5 years
8   1974



ANNEX 10
Table 3
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURA.L PRODUCTS PROCESSING
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
On-Farm Development-Asparagus-Per Ha
Investment Items                   YEAR:       1         2        Local         Foreign         Total         Foreign
- - - - - - - - - - Thousand Won - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Crowns (Plants) 27,000 @Won 5.6           151        -          7              144            151            95
2. Materials and Labor
Fertilizer                             37        37         -               74             74           100
Tools,                                  6         6         6                6             12            50
Spray Materials                        12        12         6               18             21            75
Land Preparation                       12        12       16                 8             24            25
Labor:
60 Man Days                            36        36        72                -             72             -
100 Woman Days                         38        38        76                -             76             -
Sundry costs including Crown
replacements                         28        28       16               40             56            70
Total Thvestnent Cost,                       320       169       199              290            489            60
Phasip_
Won '000
Year               1           2            3            4            5           TOTAL
Ha  Coat    Ha  Cost    Ha  Cost    Ha  Cost    Ha  Cost  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
A      Investment Costs                -                                                                                         i
W  umi - investment  2/         45 14400   50  16000   50  16000   50  16000                                   62400
maintenance 3/                             7605        8450         8450         8450                   32955
Buyeo - investment              30   9600   30   9600   40  12800   40  12800                                   44800
maintenance                               5070         5070         6760         6760                   23660
Wanju- investmenT                                        50  16000   50  16000                                 32000
maintenance                                                         8450         8450                   16900
75  24000   60  38275  140  56320  140  68460          23660 55056  127629  212715   60
Physical Contingency 10%            ;2400         3828         5832         6846        366  8509   12763   21272   60
26400        42103       64152        75306        26026 93594  140392  233957   60
Price Contingency                    13U0         4315       10110        16228         7191 15666   23498   39164   60
27720       46418        74262        91534        33217 109261 163890  273151   60
1/ Ha - Hectares (Total over 4 years 435 ha)
2/ Investment costs - incurred in 1st year of development - lWon 320,000 per ha.
3/ Maintenance costs - incurred in 2nd year of development - WIon 169,000 per ha.
March 8, 1974



ANNEX 10
Tahle h
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical DescriUtion
On-Farm Development - Shiitake - lOGm-
Investment Items                      Local           Foreign         Total
- - - - - - - - - Thousand Won -. - -
Logs                                   270                              270?          -
Cutt'ina, fal]ing, fr transport,
equl_ienrt                 142             i48             210           80
Spanm                                                                    ro           -
Thnoculation (Ircluding labor)          75- 75
Tools                                   -100
Shed                                   150                              300           UG
roles                           60 oj0                          60            90
W^.t-- sprinkler system                                 120             150           90
Total In-vestmert Costs                677            1,023           1,700           60
Phasing - Won '000
Year 1       Year 2       Sear 3           Total
m3     Cost m3       Cost  m       Cost  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
Investmnent  Costs    6000 102000  8000 1360G0  10000 170000 163200  244800  408000   60
Physical Contingencies      10200         13600           17000 16320   24480   40800   60
10%                         _              _                               _
112200       149600         187000 179520  269280  448800   60
Price Contingency           12000         42000          55000  39000   60000   99000
124000       19160O         _42000 218520  329280 5478OO   60
March 8, 1974



Annex 10
_                                                                                         Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTZJRAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Modernization of Mushroom Cannery
Investmnent Items                     Cost Per Unit l/          Cost Per Unit -
-  - - - - Thousand Won -
1t   Building Modification                 6,000                      6,000
2.   New Cold Storage Facility            11,000                     11,000
3.   Dial Scale                                                         400
4.   Agitating Washer                     4,000                       4,000.
5.  M4odify Soak Tank                                                   400
6.   New Blancher                                                     3,500
7.   New Sorting/Grading Conveyor         1,600                       1,600
8.   New Slicers                                                      1,200
9.   New Size Graders                                                   800
10.   New Inspection Conveyors               800                         800
11 e   Can \iashers                                                      840
12.   Empty Can Handling Equipm.ent
(tracks, elbows, turns)                                         800
13.   Tubular .Heat Exchanger                 200                        200
14.   New/l"ndified Filling Conveyor       1,000                       1,000
15.   New/Modified vlWeihing Tables                                      400
16.   Dripline Controls for Auto Brining   2C0                           200
17.   Newr Seaners/Coders                                              6,000
18.   New Modified Retorts and Controls  3,200                         3,200
19.   N ew Incline Conveyor                                            1,800
20.   Quality Control Tools                  400                         400
21,   Portable Cleaning Unit                                             240
22.   Fork Lift                                                        1,240
23.   Pallets                                                          1,600
24.   Installation Electric, Plumbing,
Mechanical                         3,000                     10,000
25.   Motor Vehicle                        4,000                       4,000
Total Investment Costs                    35,400                      ______
Phasing - b~n Jillion
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3               TOTAL
Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Local   Foreign   Total
investndint Costs        5       141      8       220     9      237    209        389      598
Physical Contingencies
___ 1521                          33              36      E       158        90
162              253             273    241      5 47      688
Price Contingencies               16               47              68     46        85       3l1
178              S              341    287        532      819
1/ Since equipment requirements would differ widely between sub-borrowers, two
represeiltative unit costs are given.
March 8, 1974



ANNEX 1 0
Table 5
Page  2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Mushroom Canning
Item Number --
Coincides with
Page 1                                  Technical Description
1              See Annex 9, Appendix A for specifications of all
building modifications.  Customized for each sub-
borrower.
2              See Annex 9 Appendix C for specifications of all
new cold storage facilities.  Customized for each
sub-borrower.                                                    W
3              Dial reading scales with a minimum 1.5 m2 platform
size, to be mounted flush with floor level, and
having a range of at least 0 to 500 kg i .05 kg
Shelf hardware.
4              Fluidized bed flood washers, sized for capacities
of washing 5, 10, or 20 metric tons per 8 hr shift.
Tanks will be a minimum of 5.5 meters in length,
and made of mild steel. Discharge belt will be
made of stainless steel woven wire with appropriate
stainless steel flights and run on Hi D polywear
strips with a 1/2 H.P. motor drive. Fresh water
sprays over discharge belt will use 26 to 37 G.P.M.
at 30 to 60 psi, respectively. Equipped with a
5 H.P. pump, and appropriate plumbing for re-
circulating 300 G.P.M. water from tank with
continuous screening through an appropriate
dewatering system, and with a mounted blower and
air log system producing from 25 to 100 G.P.M. to
provide agitation in the wash tank. Shelf hardware.
5              Annex 9, Appendix A.  Customized for each sub-
borrower.



ANITEX 10
_                                                                         Table 5
Page 3
Item Number --
Coincides with
Page 1                                    Technical Description
6              Continuous hot water blancher and cooler of immersion
type; or of a continuous steam type, whichever is
more appropriate. The conveyor in either type will
be a flat top chain and of appropriate width and
length to meet approximately either 500, 1,000,
or 2,000 kg/hour capacities; the conveyors, steam
and water systems and removable hood of stainless
steel with heliarc welds. The power trains (between
3 and 6 H.P.) will be appropriate for the different
model sizes and be equipped with a variable speed
transmission with a range of 0.5 to 1.5 m/min.
Customized for each sub-borrower.
7, 8, 9, 10,         See Annex 9, Appendix B for general specifications.
11, 12              The slicer to utilize the rotating knife with the
flow-by water feed principle. All items except
can washers will be customized for each sub-borrower,
and supplied with appropriate power trains.
13              Double or triple tubular heat exchanges of appropriate
capacities as dictated by the needs of sub-borrowers.
14, 15, 16           See Annex 9, Appendix B for general specifications.
The exact specifications will be customized for each
sub-borrower.
17             Automatic vacuum can seaming machines with appropriate
capacities as dictated by the needs of each sub-
borrower; complete with appropriate power trains, all
operating controls, vacuum pumps, headspacers,
feeding disks, and 10 digit, 2-line lid coders.
Exact specifications as to size and capacities
will depend upon the needs of each sub-borrower.
18             New or modifications of retorting systems as recluired
for the safe thermal processing of low acid food
regulations GMP 128B.10 of the USA/FDA code.
Depending upon the canner, this item may include
whole new retort systems or modifications, such as
automatic recorders and controllers, bleeders,
steam headers, drain and exhaut lines, thermometer
wells, air compressors, retort baskets, and cooling
water treatment.  Needs will be specific for each
sub-borrower.



ANNEX 10
Table 5                W
Page 4
Item Number --
Ccincides with
Page 1                                    Technical Description
19             See Annex 9, Appendix B for general characteristics.
The capacities and heights of input and discharge
will vary for each canner, thus specific descriptions
must be customized for each sub-borrower.
20             Quality control tools needed will vary between
sub-borrowers. Each should be equipped with center
can thermometers, vacuum gauges for measuring can
vacuums, tool kits used for examining can seams,
incubators at 37 and 55C, appropriate equipment
needed for conducting standard filth tests, such as
mites, maggots, and other miscellaneous laboratory
equipment, such as beakers, cylinders, flasks,
and reagents. Shelf hardware.
21             A portable 500 or higher psi, low-volume equipment
cleaning unit complete with controls for blending
hot water or steam with cold water, and cleaning                  _
or sanitizing solutions. Shelf hardware.
22             An appropriate gasoline or battery powered fork lift
with standard accessories needed for lifting and
stacking standard sized and designed pallets
weighing up to one metric ton to heights of 3.5
meters. Shelf hardware.
23             Pallets of standard size, and designed for lifting
from all sides. Shelf hardware.
March 8, 1974



ANNEX 10
_mik                                                                                                            Table b
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Descrivti on
Modernization of Integrated Cannery-Peach Canning
Local         Foreign         Total         Foreign
Investment Items                                                                              %
- - - - - - Thousand Won - - - - -
1.   Peach Cutters (4)                           _            1,200           1,200         100
2.   Turn over Shaker (1)                        -              500             500         100
3.   Alkali Peeler (1)                          1,500         1,500           3,000          50
4.   Grader (1)                                   960         1,440           2,400          60
5.   Slicer (1)                                   750           750           1,500          50
6.   Sterilizers (3)                            3,600         3,600           7,200          50
7.   Can Washer and Tracks (1)                    -          1,040            1,040         100
8.   Can Conveyor (1)                             -             800             800         100
9.   Vacuum Syruper & Mech. Vacuum Pump (1)  2,400            9,600          12,000          80
10.  Vacuum Seamner (1)                         2,400         9,600          12,000          80
11. Equipment and Installation -
Ask        Plumbing, Mechanical, 31ectrical         5,400         1,800           7,200          25
_w-2.  Six Ton Truck (1)                            2,000         2,000           4,000          50
Total investment Costs                         19,010        33,830          52,840           65
Phasing
~~ ~~ WMon-Million
Year 1            Year 2           fear 3            TOTAL
No. of   Cost    No. of   Cost    No. of   Cost  Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
Investment Costs                      Units             Units             Units                                          %
1       114       a       820       11       1214   752    1396        214       -
Physical Contingencies  15%                     18               122                182   113       210       322
_132              92                1396   85   1606           7
Price Contingencies                             13               166                404   204       379       583
-  4             -110               1800  1069   177          353      65
Note:  Numbers in (   ) indicate quantity.



ANNEX 1 0
Table 6                W
Page 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Peach Canning
Item Number
Coincides with
Page 1                                    Technical Description
1             A hand-fed peach cutter having a capacity of
700 peaches/hour, with stainless steel fruit contact
parts and appropriate power train.
2             A peach turnover shaker providing the appropriate
mechanism for insuring all peach halves are aligned              W
in a cup down position, equipped with appropriate
power train for a capacity of 2 metric tons per hour.
3             An automatic lye peach peeler for a capacity of
2 metric tons per hour, including appropriate power
train with variable speed transmission, automatic
controls, and sections for preheating, lye application,
holding, skin eliminating and washing; holding tank
for lye, lye cleaning screen, circulating pump for
lye and water, tubular heat exchangers for lye
solutions, all wired for operation.
4             Peeled peach size grader with appropriate power
train and approximately 0.75 x 1.2 meters in size,
for a capacity of about 2 metric tons per hour.
5             Peach slicer with stainless steel circular blades
for a capacity up to 0.5 metric ton per hour with
appropriate drive train.
6             Continuous hot water atmospheric sterilizer of
appropriate size to heat, process and cool adequately
250 standard cases of peaches per hour; equipped
with automatic temperature controller and appropriate
power train.



ANNEX 10
W                                                                       Table 6
Page 3
Item Number
Coincides with
Page 1                                    Technical Description
7             Can washer of gravity flow, inverted type with 40 to
50 psi hot water or steam injection sprays for
cleaning empty cans. Can track requirement will vary
with sub-borrowers.
8             Filled can feed conveyor approximately 2 meters in
length with synchronized speed controls to vacuum
syruper for capacity of up to 200 C.P.M.
9             Automatic prevacuumizing syruper with at least 18
valves having stainless steel in all product contact
parts, syrup bowl and valves, adjustable head spacers
and prevacuumizing cycle, can feed table with spiral
timer, automatic no can, no fill device, hook up parts
for drive from a seaming machine, equipped also with
vacuum and fill controls and appropriate mechanical
-mk                       vacuum pumps.
lw
10             Automatic vacuum can seaming machines with a capacity
not less than 250 cans per minute complete with power
trains, all operating controls, vacuum pumps, feeding
discs and a 10-digit 2-line lid coder.
11             Self-explanatory - exact needs will vary with sub-
borrower.
12             Six-ton truck.
March 8, 1974






ANNEX 10
Tab]e r7
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGrRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Asparagus Canning
Investment Items                     Local          Foreigr          Total        Foreign %
- - -Thousand Won - -
1.  3 Trimming Conveyors               240             96n           1,200           80
2. 1 Cross Conveyor                    240             560             800           70
3.  1 Akitated Washer                  750           2,250           3,000           75
L4.  1 Shaker - cleaner                360              840          1,200           70
5.  1 Blancher                      1,200            2,800           4,000           70
6.  1000 Weighing Pans                  30              30              60           50
7.  1 Can Washer and Track              -              500             500          100
8.  1 Set Plumbing Materials
and Installation              1,500              500           2,000           25
9.  1 Set Electrical Equipment         500             500           1,000           50
Total Investment Costs              4,820            8,940          13,760           6
Phasing - Won '000
YEARS          1             2              3
Units Cost Units Cost Units Cost Local Foreign Total Foreign
Investment Costs     1       13760   1    13760    2  27520  19264  35776    55040   65
2064           2064        4128   2890   5366       8256
?nyslca Contingencies  20614  20614          22~~~1$54  1411142    63296
158214                    3 7T3033B
Price Contingencies           1400          2600         75o0   4025   7475    11500
17224        18424        39148  26179  48617    74796   65



ANNEX 10
Table 7                W
Page 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Asparagus Canning
Item Number
Coincides with
Page 1                                    Technical Description
1              Trimming conveyor approximately 0.9 meter width x
5 meters in length with sanitary rubber composition
belt and 1/2 H.P. motor.
2              Cross conveyor approximately 0.5 meter width x 8 meters
in length with sanitary rubber composition belt and               W
2 H.P. motor.
3              Agitated flood type washer with inclined exit conveyor
air blower and air log system for providing underwater
agitation, and high pressure (30 to 50 psi) fresh water
low volume sprays over product on exit conveyor.
4              A vibrating shaker air cleaning system with appropriate
power trains and air blower system. Approximately
1 meter in width x 2 meters in length.
5              Continuous hot water blancher and cooler of immersion
type or of a continuous steam type, whichever is
more appropriate. The conveyor in either type will
be a flat top chain and of approximate width and
length to meet approximately a 1,500 kg/hour capacity;
the conveyors steam and water systems and removable
hood of stainless steel with heliarc welds; equipped
with an appropriate power train and variable speed
transmission with a range of 0.5 to 1.5 meter/min.
6              Weighing pan of stainless steel approximately
0.2 x 0.3 x 0.15 meters.
7              Can washer of gravity flow, inverted type with 40 to
50 psi hot water or steam injection sprays for cleaning
empty cans. Can track requirement will vary with
sub-borrower.
March 8, 1974



Annex 10
Table 8
I'age 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJEGT
Detailed. Investment Costs and Technical Description
New Freezing Plant
Investment Items                   No. Local   Foreign    Total        Forei-gn(,%)
- - - - - - Thousa rd %lWn - - -
1.   Land - 3000 pyongs                  12,000               12,000
2.   Buildings
Processing               400  76,650   25,550      102,200      25
Freezer Warehouse        530
Storage                  300
Office                   120
Other areas              200
3.   Utilities
_                  W0ell    .                      1,050     450         1,500      30
Water Supply Equipment          i,050     450        1,500      30
Water Tank Overhead             1,050     450        1,500      30
Water Tank Underground         1,050      450        1,500      30
'3,:780   2,520      6,300      40
Chimney                        1,000                 1,000
Transformer and Elec.Inst.     6,200   1,300         7,500      171U
Fire Alarm                        500     500        1,000      50
4.   Office Equipmeit and Furniture      1,500                1,500
5.  Vehicles and Transport Systems
3edan                             800    1,200       2,000      60
Truck 2.5 I-T                  3,600    5,400        9,000      60
Truck 6 M/T                    2,000    2,000        4,000
Fork Lift                                4,500       4,500     100
Pallets                 300       450                  450
Bulk Bins               200    2,000                 2,000
6.   Tools
I-Iachine Shop                 2,000   2,000         4,000      50
Quality Control                  800   3,200         4,000      80
Carts                   10       160      240          400      60
Scale                   20                200          200     100



Annex 10
Table 
Page 2 W
7.   Refrigeration Equipment
Compressor Ammonia (2 Stage)  2                    7,200     7,200    100
Compressor Ammonia (1 Stage)                       2,000     2,000    2)0
Receiver, High kressure                              400        400    lO1
Receiver, Low Pressure                               360        300    l00
Condenser, 100 RT                                  3,600      3,600    ioc
Regulator, set elect                               2,600      2,600    ioC
Condenser, 30 RT                                   1,600     1,600    100
Auto Regulator, 1 set                                560        560   l0o
Intermediate Cooler                                  400       400   loo
Unit Cooler, Blower                                2,800     2,800    100
Unit Cooler, Drawer                                1,200     1,200   100
Unit Cooler, Ceiling                                 800        800  l0
Installation and Supplies               4,400      2,800      7,200     40
8.  Freezer Equipment
Blast Freezer Coil                                 2,400     2,400    100
Duct                                      72C        450      1,200     40
Contact Freezer                                   16,ooo    16,000    100
IQF Freezer                                       32,000    32,000    100
Refrigeration Equipment                          lO0,000   100,000    100
for Freezer *rstems
Contact Freezer Pans                               3,000     3,000    100 o
9.   Strawberry Processing Equipment
Washer                         2        1,200        800     2,000    40
Sorting Conveyor               2           700       700     1,400    50
Inclined Conveyor              2           400       400        800    50
Su.gar Mixer                                       2,500     2,500   100
Roller Conveyor                4           300       300        600    50
Shaker                                     150       150        300    50
Packing CoRnveyor                          150       150        300    50
Dbuble Jacketed 1Cttles        6          900        900      1,800    50
Agitator                       3           375       375        750    50
Glass Jar Conveyor                                   200        200   100
Table Filling                 10           500                  500
Vacuum Sealer                              400       400        800    50
Injector Filler                2                   3,000     3,000   100
Glass Jar Washer                                   3,500     3,500   100
Capping Machine                2                   7,000     7,000   1'G0
Jar Cooler                     2        1,200      1,200     2,400    50
Jar Drier                      2        1,500      1,500     3,000    50
10.   Spinach Processing Equipment
Dry Cleaner                    2        1,500      1,500     3,000    50
1         Washer                         3         3,300     1,200      4,500    27
Grading Conveyor               3           900     1,8o0      2,700    67
Blancher and Cooler            2        3,720      1,080      4,800    22
Drain Conveyor                 2           700       700      1,400    50
Packing Conveyor               2           550       550      1,100    50
Total Investment Costs                141,205   260,515   401,720    65



ANNEX 10
_nk                                                                     Table 8
_4W                                                                     Page  3
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Cost and Technical Description
New Freezing Plant
Item Number
Coincides with
Page 1                                   Technical Description
2              The processing area will be finished with smooth
sanitary floors, walls and ceilings as described
for the mushroom rehabilitation plans. Floor drains
and exhaust systems are to be in conformity to
those described for the mushroom rehabilitation
plan.  The freezer warehouse should be constructed
with insulated floor, walls and ceiling of
polyurethane sufficient to maintain a -300C
temperature. Openings to the freezer warehouse
should be protected with air curtains. The remaining
areas of the facility can be of standard construction.
3              The well needed should provide 100 metric tons of
potable water per day and should be equipped with
appropriate water treatment if needed, pumps and
an overhead water storage tank for a capacity of
50 metric tons and an underground water storage
tank of 100 metric ton capacity. The boiler should
have a capacity of 3 metric tons of the water tube
type.
4              Self-explanatory.
5              Fork lift - an appropriate gasoline or battery powered
fork lift with standard accessories needed for
lifting and stacking pallets of standard size and
design, weighing up to 1.5 metric tons, to heights
of 3.5 meters. Regular pallets and palletized
bulk bins of standard size and designed for lifting
from all sides.
6              Appropriate tools for the machine shop would include
pipe fitting, welding, electrical, metal and wood
working tools for maintenance of facility and
processing equipment.



AN'NEX I O
Table 8
Page  4
w
Item Number
Coincide with
Page 2                                    Technical Description
7    A.        Multiple engine, ammonia compressor, 2 stage, 2 ton,
-40CET, 30 C.C.T., 35 RT, complete with 50 KW motor.
B.        Multiple engine, ammonia compressor, single stage,
18CET, 300 C.C.T., 25 RT complete with 30 KW motor
and self-adjustor.
C.        Receiver, ammonia, high pressure, 150 RT.
D.        Receiver, ammonia, low pressure.
E.        Condensor, ammonia, evaporation type, 100 RT
including oil separator.
F.        Condensor, anmonia, evaporation type, 30 RT including
oil separator.
G.        Regulator to include power input, power distribution
and power control cubicles for ammonia refrigeration
system above.
H.        Automatic regulator for control cubicles above.
I.        Intermediate cooler for complete unit.
J.        Blower type unit cooler, 15 RT.
K.        Drawer type unit cooler.
L.        Ceiling type unit cooler, 5 RT.
M.        Installation, plumbing, mechanical and electrical
self-explanatory.
8    A.        Cooling coil for blast freezer room at -60C.
B.        Duct - self-explanatory.
C.        Shelf type contact freezers designed for 1 or 2 kg
packages of spinach, and having a capacity for
freezing 2 metric tons per 8 hr shift from 15 to
-30C, equipped with automatic freezing cycle
controls, and automatic defrosting.



ANNEX 10
Table 8
Page  5
Item Number
Coincide with
Page 2                                    Technical Description
8    D.        A packaged fluidized bed freezer of the IQF principle
of an appropriate capacity for 1 metric ton per hour
of strawberries with appropriate input and exit
conveyors, equipped with automatic controls for
operation during the freezing cycle and "shift
defrosting". The system can be either a single or
double pass system, but must be complete with blowers,
cooling coils, and ducts needed for its operation.
E         A packaged ammonia refrigeration system appropriate
for operating the contact and IQF freezers, to include
compressors, condensors, regulators, electrical,
plumbing and mechanical installations.
F         Freezer pans of stainless steel and of appropriate
size for freezing the 1 or 2 kg packages of spinach.
9    A.         Agitated flood type washer with inclined exit conveyor,
equipped with appropriate air blower and air log and
low volume fresh water sprays at 40 psi over the exit
conveyor.  Stainless steel tank and conveyor with
appropriate drive train.
B.        A continuous sorting conveyor .9 meter wide x 6 meters
in length with sanitary rubber composition belt and
appropriate drive train.
C.        An inclined conveyor of stainless steel with appropriate
flights .5 meter wide x 2 meters in length with appropriate
drive train.
D.        A machine for mixing sugar and strawberries; stainless
steel, about .7 meter in width x 1.8 meters in length
with appropriate drive train.
E.        Roller conveyors, mild steel, .3 meter width x 4.5 meters
in length.
F.        Vibrator feeder of stainless steel, .45 meter width x 9
meters length with drive train.
G.        Packing conveyor with sanitary rubber composition belt,
.9 meter width x 2 meters length with appropriate
drive train.
_                   H.        Double jacketed steam kettles of stainless steel,
.9 meter width x .8 meter in height.



ANNEX 10 
Table 8               _Aa
Page 6
Item Number
Coincide with
Page 2                                    Technical Description
9    I.        Glass jar conveyor with drive train and woven metal
chain conveyor, 7.6 meters width x 6 meters length.
J.        Kettle agitator with drive train and stainless steel
wings.
K.        Filling tables with stainless steel tops,
1 meter wide x 3 meters length.
L.        Automatic vacuum sealer with capacity of 1,250 jars/hour,
impulse 2 style with appropriate motor train and
mechanical vacuum pumps.
M.        Automatic injector filler with appropriate valves for
filling 50 cans per minute, with agitator and including
no-can, no-fill feature and drive train.
N.        A steam injection inverted glass jar washer of a
50 jar per minute capacity, including automatic
controls and drive train.
0.        Automatic capping machine for closing 50 jars per
minute with coder, cap feed, jar timers and conveyor
system.
P.        Continuous jar cooler 1.5 meters wide x 4 meters length
with woven wire conveyor, power train 8and plumbing
for spray cooling.
Q.        Continuous jar air drier, 1.8 meters wide x 5 meters
length with woven wire conveyor, power train and
an appropriate heating and blower distribution system.
10   A.         Continuous stainless steel perforated drum dry
cleaner for spinach .9 meters diameter x 6 meters
length, equipped with appropriate drive train.
B.        Continuous stainless steel perforated drum washer
with tank, water spray jets and drive train.
C.        Grader conveyor .9 meters width x 8.1 meters length
with stainless steel woven wire belt, and appropriate
drive train.



ANNEX 10
Table 8
Page  7
Item Number
Coincide with
Page 2                                    Technical Description
D.        Continuous steam blancher water cooler with stainless
steel woven wire belt, appropriate drive train,
temperature controller, steam headers and traps.
E.        A drain and inspection conveyor .9 meters width x 6
meters length with stainless steel woven wire belt
and appropriate drive train.
F.        Packing conveyor .9 meters wide x 6 meters length
with sanitary rubber composition belt and drive train
and an appropriate number of side tables for weighing
packages.
M
March 8, 1974k






ANN X 10
Table 9
KO RHA
INTEGRATED AGIUCULTUIUAL PlRODUCTS PI GCESSING PRCJEtr1'
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Desc iption
Modernization of Freezing Plant
Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign
Investment Items                    - - - - Thousand Won - -          %
Buildings                            80,000   20,000      100,000  '20
Refrigeration Facility                -        30,000      30,000  100
Boiler & Electric                     6,ooo    4,ooo       10,000   40
Tools                                 5,500    5,500       11,000   50
2 Six N/T Trucks                      4,000    4,000        8,000   50
1 Sedan                                  800    1,200       2,000   60
~ Processing Equipment                       2,600   23,400        26,ooo   90
Jan Equipment                         5,400   21,600       27,000   80
Freezing                               -       36,000      36,000  100
Contact Freezer                        -       -6,000      16,000  100
IQF F.eezer                            -       32,000      32,000  100
Total Investment Costs               104,300  193,700      298,000   65
Physical Contingencies 15`           15,495   29,205       44,700
118,795  223,905      342,700
Price Contingencies                  34,000   11,900       22,100
152,795  235,805      364,8,00   65
No tes:
1.  Only one existing plant would be modernized and this would take place in the
second year.
.    2.  For Technical Description - See Annex 10, Table 8, Page 3.
March 8, 1974






_                                                                                                              AAiiINEX 10
Table 10
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AG,RICULTURAL 'RODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Shiitake Drying Facilitj
Local           Foreign         Total            Foreign
Investment Items                                                                                      d
- - -               Thousand Won - -
1.   Land - 1000 pyong                            000               -              000              -
2.   Bailding                                     1860            1240             3100            30
Processing
Office
Lab
Rest Room
3.   Utilities                                     500             1000            1500             66
Electric
Plumbing
4.   Processing Equipment
Scale, 100 Kg.                                             1000            1000             100
Scale, 20 Kg.                        -50                                    250             100
-nk         Washer or Vacuum Cleaner                     -             1000             1000            100
Slicer                                       50             450             500              90
Packaging Table                              50              50             100              50
Set tools and instruments                   130             520             650              80
2 Stage Belt Drier                           -             4000            4000             100
Installation                                500             500            1000              50
Total Investment Costs                            5090           10010            15100             66
Phasing - Won 'oooV/
Year 2             Year 3            TOTAL
No. of   Cost    No. of   Cost    Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign
Units             Units                                               X
Investment Costs                     1        15100      1      15100    10220    18980         29'00      65
Physical Contingency  15%                      2265               2265     1533      2847        4380
17365             17365-  11753    21827         33580
Price Contingencies                            280c               3800     2310      4290        6600
20165             21165    14063    26117        4017C      65
1/ Number and phasing are subject to revision.
March 8, 1974



A1NNEX 1 0
Table 10                _
Page 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Shiitake Drying Facility
Item Number
Coincide with
Page 1                                    Technical Description
2              The facility should be constructed in conformity to
the sanitary features described previously for floors,
walls, and ceiling. At least two spot drains should
be located in the floor.
4    A.        Platform dial reading scale of 100 Kg + .05 capacity.
B.        Platform dial reading scale of 20 Kg + .005 capacity.
C.        Flood washer or vacuum cleaner.  Either should be
equipped with a constant flow exit conveyor or
feeder in balance with the drier capacity. If a
washer is used, it will be equipped with fresnl water
sprays at 40 to 50 psi over tne exit conveyor. If
a vacuum cleaner is used, it should be a negative
air system mounted above the product as it moves on
a vibrating table/feeder. Either system will be
equipped with the proper power train and water or
air systems.
D.        Stainless steel rotating knife with the flow-by water
feed principle to be supplied with the proper power
trains for the knives and water feeds.
E.        Packaging table .9 meters wide x 2 meters long.
F.        Necessary tools and instruments for operating the
facility and measuring moisture content of fresl
and dried mushrooms.
G.        Two-stage hot air continuous belt drier naving
a capacity of drying 14 metric tons of fresh mushrooms
to 15% of their fresh weiglht during an eigiht hour shift
by using the counter current flow principle to be
pre-equipped withi all heating, controlling, and
drive train systems and wired for operation.
March 8, 1974



*                                                    41                                                     II
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Investment Costs and Technical Description
Technical Assistance
InvestmTient Items                               Year 1    Year 2      Local       Foreign       Total     Foreign
-Million Won ---------
1.   Construction of insect-proof glass
house at3uveon                  16.0        -         1.6         14.4         16.0
2.   Importation of new varieties of
asparagus & strawberries         1.6      0.4          -           2.0          2.0
3.   Provision of 2 jeeps for transportation
of specialists                   8.0        -         3.2          4.8          8.0
4.  Overseas training:
(a)  1 virus specialist from SHES         4.0        -           -          4.0           4.0
(b)  2 horticulturalists from AFDC        4.0        -           -          4.0           4.0
(c)  2 AFDC's processing experts          8.0        -          -           8.o           8.0
5.  Local training of Shiitake farmers            1.0       -          1.0         -             1.0
6.   Procurement of foreign technical
and publications                      0.5       0.5         -           1.0          1.0
7.   Vislts of' foreign consultants for
asparagus & strawTberry          6.o        6.o        o.6        11.4         12.0
8.   Salary of Project Manager                   0.0      20.0         4.0       36.o          40.0                      o|b
9.   Accounting & Financial! Management                                                                                    L ;
Information System Study        72.0        -          7.0        65).o         72.0
Total Investar:ernt Costs                       141.1       26.9       17.4       150.6        168.0       90
Price Contingency (10% compounded)               14.1       5.6         2.0       17.7          19.7
155.      32.5        19.4      1-68.3        187.7



ANX 10
Table HI
Page 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Technical Description of the Insect-Proof Glasshouse
1.        The ORD Horticulture Station, Suwon, already has an insect-
proof glasshouse for the testing and propagation of virus free stocks
of carnations. It is a very well constructed steel-framed house which
has proved ideal for its purpose. A house of the same type and dimen-
sions would be very suitable for strawberries and there is room along-
side the present house for its construction.
2.        The overall dimensions of the house would be 28m x 6m.  This
would permit a series of concrete troughs to be built on tie floor.
These would run along the width of the house and plants would be grown
in them for runner production. This would permit sufficient steriliza-
tion and replacement of compost, used for growing the plants, between
different batches.
3.        Allowing for pathways, 15 troughs each about lm x 5.5m would         w
be built. Each trough would hold 5 plants from which an average of 30
runners would be obtained each season. The total output of the house,
2,250 virus tested plants, would be ample to provide AFDC with enough
plants for further propagation for commercial cropping and with plants
of new varieties to be tested in yield trials.
March 8, 1974



ANNEX 11
Page  1
'--
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Study
of the AFDC Accounting and Management Information System
Objectives
1.        lhe objectives of the study, to be undertaken by the Management
Consultants, are:
(a) to recommend improvements in the accounting and financial
information systems of the Agriculture and Fishery Development
Corporation (AFDC) to enable the Corporation to obtain
a detailed cost and profit analysis by principal activity
and by subsidiary and detailed statements of assets and
liabilities; and
(b) to recommend changes, as may be required, in the
Ads&              Corporation's internal organization and operating procedures
to ensure efficient implementation of the improved
accounting and financial information systems.
Responsibilities
2.        The consultants shall:
(a) review and make recommendations regarding the over-all
accounting system of the Corporation and its subsidiaries
and develop procedures that:
(i) provide appropriate and accurate presentation of
the profitability and financial position of each of
the activities carried on by the Corporation and
its subsidiaries;
(ii) ensure that detailed and adequate information is
readily available on the Corporation's operations,
particularly with respect to the liquidity position,
loan collections and rescheduling;
(iii) ensure that long-term (minimum of three years) profit
and cash forecasts of the AFDC, including subsidiaries,
are prepared;



ANNEX 11              _
Page 2
(iv) improve the organization and the quality of the
Corporation's accounting, budgetary control and audit
operations.
(b)  review and recommend improvements in the cost accounting
systems of the AFDC and its subsidiaries;
(c) develop a system to enable tha Corporation to assess the
effectiveness of its program of developing agro-industries,
in particular horticultural production and farm income;
(d) review the Corporation's recruitment procedures and
training program and recommend measures with respect
thereto that will strengthen the Corporation's accounting
staff; and
(e) assist and train the management and staff of the Corporation
in implementing the new accounting and financial information
systems as agreed between the Corporation and the IBRD.
Work Procedures
3.        The consultants, after initial discussions with the Corporation's
management, shall decide upon the methods and procedures for undertaking               _
the study. They shall also, as necessary, visit the Corporation's
subsidiaries and factories and meet with, inter alia, appropriate officers
of agro-industries, Bank of Korea, Farmers' Associations and individual
farmers.
Time Schedule
4.        The consultants shall carry out the work detailed in
paragraph 2(a) through (d) within eight months and the work specified in
paragraph 2(e) thereof within 12 months, respectively, from the date of
the signing of the contract by the Corporation and the consultants.
5.        Tne consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, would commence
their work within three months after the loan became effective.  Their
detailed terms of reference should also be agreed by the Bank.
Members of the Consultant Team
6.        The consulting team should have substantially the following expertise:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(a) Management Expert: a senior management consultant with
considerable experience (not less than 10 years) in industrial
management and organization and methods who would head the
study;
(b) Cost Accountant: a member of a recognized cost and
industrial accounting institute with at least 10 years
experience in manufactuiring organizations;
(c) Financial Analyst: a member of a recognized professional
institute, for exa-ple, the Institute of Chartered
Accountants or Certified Public Accountant, with at least
10 years experience in management accounting;
(d) Business Management Lxpert: experienced in administration,
analysis and management of agro-industries;
(e) Training Expert: experienced in developing training programs
for accountants and financial analysts; and
(f)  Systems Analyst:  experienced in developing accounting and
w                  financial information systems with background in computer
programming and its application.
Costs
7.        It is estimated that the total cost of the study would be
US$180,000, which would be in foreign exchange. This takes into account
salaries, cost of living allowance and other expenses in the field,
overhead cost, report preparation and other institutional costs. The
cost of one man-month (excluding cost of living allowances, etc.) would
be US$9,000.






ANNEX 1 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(U-$ '00-)
Year        Quarter        Disbursed        Undisbursed
1975           1              _               13,000
2             700              12,300
3           1,000              11,300
4           1,000              10,300
1976           1           1,100               9,200
2           1,100               8.,100
3           1,100               7,000
4           1 ,000              6,000
1977           1           1,300                4.,700
ANk                    ~      ~    ~~~2 1,200            3,,500
3           1 ,200              2,300
w                                4           1 ,200              1 ,100
1978           1             300                  800
2             300                 500
3             300                 200
4             200                  -
/1 Refers to quarters of IBRD's financial year.






ANNEX 13
Page  1
w
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Qualifications and Terms of Reference for the Project Manager
Qualifications
1.        He should have a Bachelor degree in mechanical engineering and
a lasters degree in food technology and should preferably have undertaken
some research work in canning and freezing of horticultural products.
He should have a minimum of five years' experience in managing fruit and
vegetable canning or freezing facilities. He should be well acquainted
with modern equipment (including plant layout and design), techniques
and practices related to both canning and freezing of horticultural
products. He should also have some knowledge of on-farm horticultural
production (mushrooms, asparagus, strawberries, etc.).
Terms of Reference
Ash,       2.         The Project Manager would report directly to the Vice-President
of the Development Department of the AFDC and consult with him on general
W           policy matters.  Tne Project Manager would specifically be responsible
for:
(a) appraisal of sub-borrowers, including both technical
and financial aspects and ensuring that field
investigations have been carried out by the Project
Unit;
(b) supervision of implementation of the project, i.e.,
ensuring that sub-borrowers follow technical advice
provided by the Project Unit;
(c) ensuring that modern equipment and technology are
utilized in the modernization of canneries-and freezing
plants, thereby ensuring that international hygiene
requirements are met, in addition to increasing the
efficiency of operations to reduce production cost;
(d) training the technical staff of the Project Unit;
(e) organizing training courses for the processors selected
under the Project in modern canning and freezing techniques,
hygiene requirements and canning practices;



ANNEX 13              _
Page  2               _
(f) preparing simple canning and freezing manuals for
distribution to the processors selected under the project;
(g) assisting the National Agricultural Products Inspection
Office (NAPIO) in revising the quality control standards and
regulations to bring these into line with international
requirements; and
(h) acting as a Secretary of the Steering Committee.
3.        In the course of performing these duties, the Project Manager
would be required to carry out some field investigation both for appraisal
and supervision of sub-projects.
Conditions of Employment
4.        A Project Manager with suitable qualifications, satisfactory
to the IBRD, would be hired by the AFDC for a maximum period of two years
and would be recruited internationally.
.



Annex 14
lw                                           KOREA
fMLPGRATED AGI COULTURAL PRODUCTS PEOCE6SING PRDJECT
1973 Average Prices
19 7 3   A v e r a g e   Pri c e s__
Commodity                                       Unit             'don           US $
I.   Faram Products/-
1tishroom
Grade A                         kg                150           0.38
B                        kg                132           0.33
C                        kg                110           0.28
Asparagus                            kg                130           0.33
Shiitake (Dried)                     kg              3,200           8.00
dtrawberries                         kg                 70           0.18
Spinach                              kg                 50           0.13
s                   ~~~~~~/2
-I. Processed Products_
Ilushroc,m                               /
Grade A                         Case3- 5,200                   13.00
B                        Case            4,800          12.00
Peaches                              Cases           2,760           6.a0
Asparagus                            Case/4          3,100           7.75
Frozen Strawberries
Grade A                         kg                240           0,60
B                        kg                144           0.36
Strawbemrry Jam                      kg                300           0.75
Frozen Spinach                       kg                1)44          0.36
/1  Ex-farm gate
71 F.O.B3. Ihorea
73  Case of 214 cans, 16 oz (net)
7   Gase of 24 cans, 4?5 grams (net)
bource:  AYDIJ, Marketing Departrment, October/November, 1973, Seoul, Korea.






ANNEX 15
_mkk                                                                    Page  1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Notes on Financial Analysis
Rate of Return
1.        The estimated financial rates of return are as follows:
Financial              Sensitivity
Rate of       Investment
Return           Cost       Net Income
Table     On Farm Development       Best Estimate    Increase       Decrease
%             10%           10%
1&2       Modernization of
mushroom houses              39             34           34
3        Asparagus - farm
development                  25             23           23
=
4        Shiitake - farm
development                  22             18           17
Processing
5        Mushrooms                      25             23            23
6        Peaches and Mushrooms          27             24            23
7        Asparagus                      25             22            23
8        Freezing                       24             20            21
9        Drying -  Shiitake             22             19            19
Assumptions
2.        Major assumptions are:
(a) Prices: October 1973 prices have been used for investment
costs (CIF prices for imported items).
(b)  P   icalContingnies:  10% has been used for farm
investment costs and 15% for processing investment costs.



ANNEX 15
Page  2              A
(c)  Price Contingencies:  The following rates (compounded) have
been used:
Equipment    Civil Works
1st year                 9             12
2nd year                 7             10
3rd-5th year                            8
(d)  Working Capital:  As working capital is not required for
long periods (maximum - two months), only interest payments
(1% per month) have been included in the financial models.
(e) Operating Expenses: The October 1973 fuel prices and
wage rates for unskilled labor have been increased by
about 70% and 25% respectively.
(f) Taxation: Farmers and Farmers' Associations do not pay
income tax. It has been assumed that the processing units
are owned by closed (private) companies and the appropriate
tax rates have been used as indicated in cash flow tables.
.



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Modernization of Mushroom Growing House - 300 Pyongs (0.1 ha)
Cash Flow
Thousand Won
YEARS                        1          2           3          4          5          6         7         8          9        10        11-14       15         16-20
Capital Expenditure:
1.   Initial Investment                       2,904
2.   Replacements   )/                                                                        363                                                 363                   363
3.  Total                                     2,903                                                                                               3_ vv
Financed BNv:
4.  AFDC Loan 80%                             2,320
5.  Owner      20%                              584
2,904
6.   Gross Revenue                              963      1,138       1,248      1,370      1,448      1,448     1,448      1,448     1,448     1,448      1,448      1,448       1,448
7.   Less Operating Expenses                    363        365         367        370         372       372       372        372       372        372       372        372         372
8.  Net Income                                  600        773         881      1,000       1,0766    1,07766     076         76 1,076                                           1,076
9.  Net Incremental Benefit Stream (8-3)   (2,304)         773         881      1,000         713     1,076     1,076      1,076     1,076        713     1,076         713      1,076
Incremental Financial Rate of Return = 39%
10. Cash Flow Before Debt  Service              600        773         881      1,000         713     1,076     1,076      1,076     1,076        713     1,076         713      1,076
11.  Less Debt  Service /                       232        532         532        532         532       532       532       -         -           -        -             -        -
12. Cash Flow After Debt  Service               368        241         349        468         181       544       544      1,076     1,076        713     1,076         713      1,07b
13. Cumulative Cash Flow  3/                    368        609         958      1,426       1,607     2,151     2,695      3,771     4,847      5,560     9,864      10,577     15,957
Annex 10, Table 2
Loan repayable over 7 years at 10% with a one year grace period.                                                                                                                             'x
Owner's contribution recovered by 2nd year.
March S, 1974



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Modernization of Mushroom Growing House - 1700 Pyongs (0.6 ha)
Cash Flow
Thousand Won
YEARS                  1           2         3           4          5          6          7          8-9         10       11-14        15 1     16-20
Capital Expenditure:
1.    Initial Investment                15,203
2.    Replacements  j                    _                                          2,057                                        2,057                 2,057
3.   Total                              15,203                                      2,057                                       2,057                  2,057
Financed B
. n DC Loan   80%                      12,160
5.   Owner        20%                    3,043
15,203
6.   Gross Revenue                       5         6,436     7,060       7,748      8,198      8,198      8,198      8,198       8,198      8,198      8,198      8,198
7.    Less Operating Expanses            2,395     2,403     2,421       2,420      2,441      2,441      2,441      2,441       2,441      2,441      2,441      2,441
8.   Net Income                         3,057      4,033     4,639       5,328      5,757      5,757      5,757      5,757       5,757      5,757      5,757       5,757
9.   Net Incremental Benefit
Stream (8-3)                    12,146      4,033     4,639       5,328      3,700      5,757      5,757      5,757       3,700      5,757      3,700      5,757
Incremental Financial Rate of Return = 39%
10.  Cash Flow Before Debt  Service    3,057       4,033     4,639       5,328      3,700      5,757      5,757      5,757       3,700      5,757      3,700      5,757
11.  Less Debt  Service 2/              1,216      2,792     2,792       2,792      2,792      2,792      2,792       -           -          -          -           -
12.  Cash Flow After Debt  Service      1,841      1,241     1,647       2,536        908      2,965      2,965      5,757       3,700      5,757      3,700      5,757
13.  Cumulative Cash Flow               1,841      3,082     4,929       7,465      8,373     11,338     14,303     25,817      29,517     52,545     56,245     85,030
j/ Annex 10, Table 2
S Loan repayable over 7 years at 10% per annum, with a one year grace period.
j/ Owners contribution recovered by 2nd year.
March 5, 1974
0                                                                                 II                                                                                41



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Asparagus - Farm Development - 1 Ha
Cash Flow
Thousand Won
__A_                  1     2                                  4  6  8   9    10    11    12
Capital Expenditure:
1.   Initial Investment 1/      352
2.   Maintenance 1/                   186
3.   Total                      35    186
Financed By:
T.  AFDC Loan   85%           299   149
5.  Owner        15%             53    37
35    186
6.   Gross Revenue                -     -    260   390   455   520   650   650   650   520   455   390
7.   Less Operating Expenses      -     -    255   267   273   279   291   291   291   279   273   267
8.   Net Income                   -     -      5   123   182   241   359   359   359   241   182   123
9.   Net Incremental Benefit
Stream (8-3)              (352) (186)     5   123   182   241   359   359   359   241   182   123
Incremental Financial Rate of Return = 25%
10. Cash Flow Before Debt
Service                     -     -      5   123   182   241   359   359   359   241   182   123
11. Less Debt  Service 2/         -     -      -    58   119   119   119   119   119   119   119        -
12. Cash Flow After Debt
Service                     -     -      5    65    63   122   240   240   240   122    63   123
13. Cumulative Cash Flow 3/       -     -      5    70   133   255   495   735   975 1,097 1,160 1,283
1/ Annex 10, Table 3        W                                                                                                   7|t
2/ Loan repayable over 11 years with a 4 year grace period; interest due for first three years capitalized.
3/ Ownerrs contribution recovered by 5th year.
V      B              1      t              1       -      *             ,              5             ,            1      F



ANNEX 15
Table 4
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Shiitake - Farm DeveloPment -       103
Cash Flow
Thousand Won
_._                          1      2        3        4       5      6
Capital Expenditure:
1.  Initial Investment 1/             1-870      -
Financed by:
2. AFDC Loan  85%                     1,590
3.  Owner      15%                      280
1,870
4. Gross Revenue                       -       480    1,728    1,h88    768    320
5. Less Operating Expenses              125   2h0       365      331    266    228
6.  Net Income                         (125)   2h0    1,363    1,157    502      92
7. Net Incremental Benefit
Stream (6-1)                     (1,995)   240    1,363    1,157    502      92
Trcree-t&  Financial Ratn oP Return   22%
8. Cash Flow Before Debt  Service    (125)   2h0    1,363    1,157    502        92
9. Less Debt  Service 2/               -         -    1,154       866    211      -
10. Cash Flow After Debt  Service      (125)   240      209      291    291      92
11. Cumulative Cash Flow 3/            (125)   115      324      615    906    998
1/ Annex 10 Table 4.
2/ Principal repayments: 50% in 3rd year; 40% in 4th year and 10% in 5th year.
Interest (@ 10%) due for 1st 2 years capitalized; paid on outstanding
balance of principal.
3/ Owner's contribution recovered by 3rd year.
t|'?  nCh 1' '   2]    l



*                                                                                  0t                                                                                  0
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSITG PROJECT
Modernization of Mushroom Cannery 1/
Cash Flow
Thousanid Won
Y_S                           1           2           3            4           5           6        7        8        9         10        11      12-14       15     16-20
Capital Exmenditure:
1.   Initial Investment                          40,710
2.   Replacements                                  -                                               8o50                                           13,570                          3,050
3.  Total                                        40,710                                             O                                             13,570                          8,050
Financed By:
4.  AFDC Loan    80%                             32,568
5.   Owner        20%                             8,42
40,710
6.  Gross Revenue                                13,329     20,538       30,382      46,654       53,245      56,142
7.   Less Operating expenses                      8,o48     14,098       21,045      33,603       37,337      39,921
8.   Eat Income before Taxation                   5,281      b,440        9,337      13,051       15,908      16,221  16,221   16,221   16,221   16,221    16,221    16,221   16,221   16,221
9.   Less Income Tax    /                          -           -            700       1,800        2,600       3,600   3,600    4,000    4,200    4,400       ),600      -
10. Net Incomie After Taxation                    5,231      6,440        8,637      11,251       13,308      12,621  12,421   12,221   12,021   11,821    11,621    16,221   16,221   16,221
11. Net Incremental Benefit Stream
(10-3)                                    (35,429)     6,440        8,637      11,251       5,358       12,621  12,421   12,222   12,021   (1,749)   11,621    16,221    8,171   16,221
Incremental Financial Rate of Return = 25%
12. Cash Flow Before Debt  Service                5,281      6,440        8,637      11,251        5,358      12,621  12,421   12,222   12,021   (1,749)   11,621    16,221    8,171   16,221
Less Debt  Service i                         3,256      5,653        5,653       5,65         5,653         5     5,653    5,653    5,653    5,653
Cash Flow After Debt  Service                  -          787        2,984       5,598         (295)      6,968   6,768    6,569    6,368   (7,402)   11,621    16,221    8,171   16,221
Cumulative Cash Flow                         2,025      2,812        5,796      11,394       11,099      18,067  24,835   31,404   37,772   30,370    41,991    90,654   98,825  179,930
3/ 5 tons daily capacity.
Annex 10, Table 5.
T1 Income Tax - 20% on lst million won; 30% on next 4 a. won and 40% thereafter on net income less depreciation allowances and interest.
Loan repayable over 10 years at 10% with a one year grace period.
| Owner's contribution recovered by 4th year.
March 5, 1974



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAI PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Modernization of Integrated Cannery - Peaches/Mushrooms  /
Cash Flow
Million Won
YEARS                              1             2           3           4           _          6          7          8           9          10    11    12         13      14   15   16-20
Capital Expenditure:
1.   Initial Investment i/                         132
2.   Replacements                                                                                    14                                                      26                                   14
3.   Total                                         132                                               __                                                      i _
Financed By
4.   AFDC Loan 8d%                                 106
5.   Owner 20%                                      26
132
6.   Gross Revenue                                 184          199         216         232         250        268
'7.   Less Operating Expenses                      158          173         187         200         215        229
8.   Net Income before Taxation                     26           2            9          32          35         39         39         39         39          39    39    39         39      39   39      39
9.   Less Income Tax 3                                -                 -           -                 1          2          3          4          5           5     6      6         6       6    6       6
10.  Income After Taxation                          26          26           29          3c'         71         3' (       '          35         34          34    33    33         33      33   33      33
11.  Net Incremental Benefit Stream (10-3)    (106)             26           29          32          20         37         36         35         34           8    33    33         33      33   19      33
Incremental Financial Rate of' Return= 27%
12.  Cash Flow Before Debt  Service                 26           26          29          32          20         37         36         35         34           8    33    33         33      33   19      33
13.  Less Debt  Service  i/                         11           19          20          20          20         20         20         20          -          - 
14.  Cash Flow After Debt  Service                  15            7           9          12           -         17       16           15         34          8    33    33          33      33   19      33
15.  Cumulative Cash Flow  5/                       15           22          31          43          43         60         76         91        125        133   166   199         232    265  284    449
L/ Mushrooms Canning - 5-10 tons daily ca.pacity;
Peaches Canning - 20 tons daily capacity.
& Mushrooms, and Peaches:   Annex 10 Tables 5 and 6.
3/ Income Tax - 20% on 1st million won; 30% on next 4 million won and 40% thereafter on net income less depreciation allowances and interest.
Loan repayable over 8 years at 10% with a one year grace period.
2/ Owner's contribution recovered by 3rd year.
March 5, 197l
0                                  ,I                                                                                                                                             IC



*                                                                                  0t                                                                                  0
KORFA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Asparagus Canning Line (20 tons daily capacity)
Cash Flow
Thousand Won
YEARS                           1        2         3        4        5        6         7        8        9        10       11       12       13       14       15       16-20
Capital Expenditure:
1.   Initial Investment y                        15,824
2.   Replacements                                    _                                                                               1 380
3.  Total                                        15,824 I,380
Financed By:
4.  AFDC Loan   80%                              12,660
5.  Owner        20%                              3 164
6.   Gross Revenue                              100,657
7.   Less Operating Expenses                     97,158
8.  Net Income Before Taxation                    3,499   3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499   3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499    3,499
9.   Less Income Tax                                177     192       207      222      237       242      257      272       287      292      313      313      313      313       313      313
10. Net Income After Taxation                     3,322   3,307    3,292    3,277    3,262    3,257    3,242    3,227    3,212    3,207    3,126   3,186    3,186    3,186    3,186    3,186
11. Net Incremental Benefit Stream (10-3)       (12,502)  3,307    3,202    3,277    3,262    3,257    3,242    3,227    3,212    1,827    3,186   3,186    3,136    3,186    3,186    3,186
Incremnenital Financial Rate of Return  25%
12. Cash Flow Before Debt  Service                3,322   3,322    3,292    3,277    3,277    3,257    3,242    3,227    3,212    1,827    3,186   3,186    3,186    3,186    3,186    3,186
13. Less Debt  Service j/                         1,266   1,736    1,736    1,736    1,736    1,736    1,736    1,736    1,736    1,736        -        -        -         -        -        -
14.  Cash Flow After Debt  Service                2,056   1,586    1,556    1,541    1,541    1,521    1,502     1,491    1,476         91    3,186   3,186    3,186    3,186    3,186    3,122
15. Cumulative Cash Flow                          2,0 56   3,642    5,198    6,739    8,280    9,801   11,307   12,798   14,274   14,365   17,551  20,737   23,923   27,109   30,295   46,225
/ Annex 18, Table 7.
Income tax - 20% on 1st million won; 30% on next 4 million won on income less depreciation allowances and interest.
j Loan repayable over 10 years at 10% with a one year grace period.
Owner's contribution recoveied by 2nd year.
March 5, 1974



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
INe Freezing Plant -Strawberries/Spinach 3/
Cash Flow
Million Won
YEARS                     1    2     3     4     5      6     7     8     9    10   11-14   11   16-20
Capital Expenditure:
1.   Initial Investment 2/       462
2.   Replacement                                           21                            58           21
3.  Total                        nb,7                      21                          7              21
Financed By2
4.  AFDC Loan   80%               370
5.  Owner        20%              _2
462
6.   Gross Revenue                451
7.   Less Operating Expenses     335
8.   Net Income Before Taxation  116  116   116   116   116   116   116   116   116   116   116   116        1l-
9.   Less Income Tax 3/            17   18    20    21    22    24    25    26    28    29    31    31        31
10.  Net Income After Tax          99   98    96    95    94    92    91    90    88    87    85    85        85
11. Net Incremental Benefit
Stream (10-3)              (363)  98    96    95    73    92    91    90    88    29    85    64        85
Incremental Financial Rate of Return - 24%
12. Cash Flow Before Debt
Service                      99   98    96    95    73    92    91    90    88    29    85    64        85
13. Less Debt  Service 4/          37   69    69    69    69    69    69    69    69      -      -     -       -
14.  Cash Flow After Debt
Service                     62   29    27    26      4    23    22    21    19    29    85    64        85
15. Cumulative Cash Flow          62   91  118   144   148   171   193  214   233   262  602   666   1,027
.  Strawberries - 19 tons daily capacity; spinach 20 tons daily capacity.
2/ Annex 10, Table 8.
3/ Taxation 20% on 1st million; 30% on next 3 m. won and 40% thereafter on income less depreciation allowances
and interest.                                                                                                  -
4/ Loan repayable over 9 years with a one year grace period.
7/ Owner's contribution recovered by 3rd year.
f.1    19'7)i



*                                                KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
New Shiitake Drying Plant (10-14 tons daily capacity)
Cash Flow
Thousand Won
YEARS                     1      2       3        4              6      7       8      9      10    11-20
Capital Expenditure:
1.   Initial Expenditure 1/   16,790
2.   Replacement                  -                                                                     8
3.   Total                     16,790                                                                   -
Financed By:
1.  AFDC Loan   85%             14,270
5.   Owner        15%           2,520
16,790
6.   Gross Revenue             48,000  52,800
7.   Less Operating Expenses  45,200  49655
8.   Net Income                 2,800   3,7i5  3,145   3,145  3,145  3,1145  3,1145  3,1145  3,145  3,145  3,1145
9.   Net Incremental Benefit
Stream (8-3)            (13,990)  3,145  3,145   3,145  3,1145  3,1145  3,145  3,,145  3,1145  2,306  3,145
Incremental Financial Rate of Return - 22%
10.  Cash Flow Before Debt
Service                   2,800   3,145  3,145   3,145  3,145  3,145  3,145  3,1145  3,145  2,306  3,145
11.  Less Debt  Service 2/       1,427   2,477  2,477   2,477  2,477  2,477  2,477  2,1477  21477  2,1477  2,1477
12. *Cash Flow After Debt                                                   -
Service                   1,373      668    668      668    668    668    668    668    668   (171)   668
13.  Cumulative Cash Flow        1,373   2,041  2,709   3,377  )4,045  14,113  5,381  6,049  6,717  6,546 13,226
1/ Annex 10, Table 10.
2/ Loan repaid over 10 years at 10% with a one year grace period.
March 5, 197L



KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECTS
AFDC - Project Cash Floug
Million Won
Cash Inflow                               YEARS       1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8        9      10       11        12       13       14       15    Total
IBRD Loan 2                                          980   1,361   1,507       328       16                                                                                              4,192
CGovernment Loan                                     151      388      348      113        6                                                                                             1,006
Loan Repayment :y Sus-Borrowers                       55      250      656      949   1,043   1,007   1,011        997      966     721      313       87       33       17              8,105
Short-Term Borrowings                                231       50                                                                                                                          281
Interest on Surplus J                                                            22      79      130      171      215     266      315      337      348      340      328      313    2,864
Total Inflow                                     1,417   2,049   2,511   1,412   1,144   1,137   1,182   1,212   1,232   1,036             650      435      373      345      313   i6,448
Cash Outflow
Loans to Sub-Borrowers                             1,131   1,749   1,855        441      22                                                                                              5,198
Interest on IBRD Loan (7.25%)                         71      170      279     303      304                                                                                              1,127
Technical Assistance Expenses                        141       27                                                                                                                          168
Project Administration Expenses                       25       27       30       33       33      33       33       30       27      25       10       10        5        5                326
Interest on Government Loan                           14       49       80       87       78      62       44       26       10        3       -        _        -        -                453
Interest on Short Term Loan                           23       29                                                                                                                           52
Repayment of Short Term Loan                                           265       16                                                                                                        281
Repayment of Govemment Loan                                                      31      108     178      202      201      170       93      23                                         1,006
Repayment of TIRD Loan (Annuity) |                                                               477      477      477      477     477      477      477      477      477      477    4,770           H 
Total Outflow                                    1,405   2,051   2,509       911      545      750      756      734     684      598      510      487      482      482      477   13,381
Surplus                                               12   (  02)        2      501     599      387      426      478      548     438      140   (  52)  ( 109)  ( 137)  ( 164)
Cumulative Surplus                                             10       12      513   1,112   1,499   1,925   2,403   2,951   3,389   3,529   3,477   3,368   3,231   3,067
/ Excludes Price Contingencies, but includes Physical Contingencies
Includes Technical Assistance payments
3  Surplus invested by AFDC @LO.5%
F  Loans repaid in 8 years, with grace period of 3 years. Interest@ 9% on reducing balance of principal
5  Loan repayable in 20 years @7.25% with a grace period of 5 years; interest@ 7.25%
*                                                                                      41                                                                                      4I



ANNEX 16
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Socio-Economic Benefits of the Project
1.        Horticultural commodities selected under the project are labor-
intensive and would be grown on those lands which are at present either idle
or used for low-income cash crops (barley, etc.). These commodities would
not displace any paddy production, but would, in fact, benefit rice farmers
by providing them with profitable cash crops during the off-season. Since
the production of these commodities is linked with processing, the farmers
would have a ready market outlet for their production at a steady and profit-
able price, thus avoiding the price fluctuations to which they have been
subjected in the past. On the other hand, modernization, coupled with diver-
sification of the canning and freezing industry, would enhance Korea's inter-
national competitiveness in agro-industry products.
2.        The proposed project would be the first concentrated effort toward
modernizing, integrating and diversifying agro-industries in Korea and at
lW         strengthening the technical knowledge essential for the success of this
industry. The success of the project would lay a foundation for the further
expansion of this industry.
Project's Contribution to Third Plan Targets
3.        Reduction of Income Disparity:  The project would involve about
5,000 farmers whose present per capita annual income is about 40% below the
national average (US$370 in 1973). It is expected that national per capita
income would increase at a minimum annual rate of 10%. It is assumed that
without the project, income of the 5,000 farmers would also increase at the
same rate (10% annually). This would result in an increased income gap of
46% by 1980. However with the project, the disparity between their income
and the projected 1980 national per capita income would be only 15%. This
is a significant contribution in reducing income disparity, which is one
of the major goals of the Third Five Year Plan.   Details of these cal-
culations are presented in Table 1.
4.        Rural Employment:  The project at full development (1980) would
create about 2,600 permanent jobs, as shown in Table 2, at a capital cost
of about US$7,000 each, which is quite reasonable for Korea. In addition, a
large number of seasonal (average of three months) jobs would be generated,
which would provide employment in the off-season to farmers who are at
present under-employed. One of the major objectives of the Third Five Year
Plan is to create employment in rural areas; this project would contribute
to achieving this goal.



AWNEX 16
Page  2
5.        Agricultural Export Earnings.  The Third Five-Year Plan also aiis
to increase export earnings from the agricultural sector. It is expected
that by 1980, the project would contribute incremental earnings of about
US$22 million per year, as shown in Table 3. In addition, the project would
enable Korea to diversify its exports from agro-industries and reduce the
export market dependence on canned mushrooms.
Economic Rate of Return (EROR)
6.        Unskilled labor is available in the project area and existing market
wage rates have been used to reflect the economic opportunity cost of labor
in that area. Investment cost, including physical contingencies, have been
used. Economic benefits comprise estimated incremental production (Table 2)
at 1973 world mirket prices, f.o.b. Korea (Annex 14). Based on these
assumptions, the rate of return to the economy would be 24%, as shown in
Table 4.
7.        The sensitivity of EROR to world prices has been tested and a
decrease of 10% would change EROR from 24% to 18%. The sensitivity to labor
costs indicates that doubling the wage rates without increasing labor pro-
ductivity would decrease EROR from 24% to 20%. Both these rates are still
satisfactory.
8.        These returns and the impact on the economy confirm the high
priority for the project and its place in the Government strategy for                  _
economic development.



*                                                                                                    0t                                                                                                     0
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICUTUTRAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Projests Impact on Farmers-lIncome
(At Full Development 1980)
(in Us$)
1973                                                                                   1980
On-Farm Development          Number of Farmers    Per Capita Income   Per Capita Income    Per Capita Income Dis-                Estimated Per Capita         Per Capita Income of Proiect FPrrsers Per Capita Income Dis-
Under the Project   (National Average)   of Project Farmers   parity Between Project               Income (National Average)                                              parity Between Project
Farmers and National                                                                                   Farmers & National Av.
Average                                                             Without               With          Without          With
Project              Project        Project         Project
Mushrooms                           350                    370                   200                      170                             470                           7191 C50                            O"               Ro
Shiitake                            220                    370                   150                      220                             630                           255                  500            375             130
Asparagus 2/                        240                    370                   200                      170                             630                           340                  500            290             130
Strawberries-2/                  1,500                     370                   200                      170                             630                           340                  535            290              95
Spinach_                         2,500                     370                   200                      170                             630                           340                  500            290             130
TOTAL                            4,810
L/ Average size of farmer's family  =  5 persons 
2/ Present Income is derived entirely from Paddy Production,
March 5, 1974



ANNEX 14
Table 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Incremental Employment - 1980
(on permanent basis)
Unskilled         Skilled
CommoditMes           Labor            Labor           Technician           Total
Mushrooms
On-Farm               200                 30                a                230
Processing             -                 100                5               145
Asparagus
On-Farm               470                 -                 -                 70
Processing            150                 30                10               190
Peaches
On-Farm
Strawberry
On-Fa.m               600                 -                 -                6on
Processing             50                 50                15               115
Sninach
On-Farm
Processing            250                 50                15               315
Shiitake
Or-Fnrm                50                 10                -                  60
Processing             30                  X                                  No
TOTAL            2,100               335                12,-            2,560
March 5, 1974



ANNEX 16
Table 3
KOREA
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Incremental Production and Export Earnings
Incremental
Processed                                  Incremental Production       Export Earnings
Commodities                 Unit                   1980                  in Million US$
Mushrooms         ?000 Standard Cases-/             450                       6.o
2/
Asparagus         '000 Standard Cases-              130                       1.0
Peaches           '000 Standard Cases-/           1,200                       8.3
Frozen120o6
Strawberries             ton                    1,200                        0.6
Strawberry Jam           ton                        200                       0.1
Frozen Spinach            ton                     7,500                       2.7
Dried Shiitake            ton                       360                       3.0
21.7
I/ Standard Case = 24 cqns, -,   oz (net)
2/ Standard Case = 2  cans,  h25 grams (net)
March 5, 197T



KOREA
ITE'GRATED AGRICIJLTUJRAL PRODUTCTS PROCESSITG PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(in Million Won)
YEARS                     1        2           3        4          5       6         7         8        9       10         11         12         13        14       15      16-0o
I.  Incremental Investment  /
On-Farm Development
Mushrooms                       41       176         414      472         8       24        60       70         -         8       24         60         70         -       162
Asparagus                       26        42          64       75        26        -                  -                            -          -          -
Shiitake                       112       150         18 7       -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -                                            _ 
Sub-Total                      179       368        665       547        34       24        60       70         -        0        24          0        70          -       162
Processing
Mushrooms                      162       253         273        -        40       64        72        -         -      297         -          -          -         _       176
Peaches/Mushroms               132       942      1,396         -      280         -         -        -         -      520         -          -         -          -      280
Asparagus                       16        16          32        -         -        -         -        -         -        6              -          -          -              -
Freezing                       343       462         924        -        21       21        42         -        -      232         -          -          -         -        84
Shiitake Drying                --         17         17         -         -                  -        -        --        2         -         _          _          _        -          _
Sub-Total                        653   1,690      2,642         -       341       85       114        -         -   1,057          -          -         -          -       540
TOTAL  --(1)                     832   2,058      3,307       547       375      109       174       70         _      1,065      24         60        70          -       702         _
II. Incremental Net Benefits 9/
Mushrooms                       27        74         142      196       279      326       355      357       357      357       357        357       357        357       357       357
Peaches/Mushrooms               26       234        523       550      610       671       736      780       780      780       780       780        780        780      780        780
Asparagus                        4         8          14       14        14       14        14       14        14       14        14         14        14         14        14        14
Freezing                       116       232        464       464       464      464       464      464       464      464       464       464        464        464      464        464
Shiitake Drying                  3         6          6         6         6        6         6        6         6        *6        6         6          6          6        6          6
TOTAL  --(2)                     176     554       1y149    1,230    1,373       i78I   1,575       ,21    1,621      i,6       611                 1,621    1,621       161
III. Economic Cost/Benefit Stream        -656  -1,504    - 2,158       683        998     1,372   1,401    1,551    1,621        556      1,597    1,561      1,551    1,621        919    1,621
(2) - (1)
Economic Rate of Return - 245
1/ Includes physical contingencies anid replacements; excludes duties.
2E Fxported value of produce (FOE YSoeem) less operating expenses.
April 25, 1974



I BRD 10943 R
~~~i.~~~~~~~'CUflK'  sir                    ur                            39' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1914
rt[-   /   _  0  tsN Os R T H K ~N O    R                      E  A ',, 1 
.-CH I NA           -                                                                      sJ 
N               / IKOREA          N                     K R                                     I
'Z          EapanSeaSea"
N.KOREA                                             / 
>X t\KOREA  7"5                                                                                                       E '       ast  Sea38
Yellow     j8 
Sea  ft ,, f                      r           <             GYEONG G;                         SNGV 7   0 \
U Pacific            (   -$ 
East    '        Ocean
China Sea,
125'                        1.6t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< ,,                                    Q B UWEBNV                   ,         g 
-77~~~~~ l'lTGRE  AGR ICLUA  PRDUT
NAM~~~~~~ \  \\ '\.\ lSRO    OUE ADCNNRE
37'
37-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
.      U
1- I      U   N                                                    \\X0 4  6  0 10 i2    4      6
55  INERAE  AGiCUL'sTURLRRDUT
u_  _   ,_                                      0          20             MliEYsE8p N0G
t25'            126' ~        ~7                127-                                   PROESIN             PROJEC
54<        (547A
Yellow~~~~~~~ SeaUHOM OSDAD ANRE
SI-TAK, PODUTIO  AN  ORINOFACLITES
-3W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~>{                                                                                 APEO5CLIATO  N  ANRE
INTEGRATED        INTRNAIONALTBUNDARIES       D CT
KILHROMETER USESAIANRE
iF                                                           M~~~~nSILAES RDCINADDRIGFCLTE
13S'  126'                        12V                           12B'                           39'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRWBRY NFAMPODCIO  RE  4



