 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14739

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/01/2015

              Country: Mexico
            Project ID: P101369                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Compensatory                 Project Costs (US$M):              US$ 166.7                   N/A
                        Education
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                  US$ 100             US$ 100
      Sector Board:       Education                  Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                03/25/2010
                                                            Closing Date:            06/30/2014          06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Primary education (66%); Pre-primary education (31%); Public administration- Education
                          (3%)
         Theme(s):        Education for all (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Monika Huppi              Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan Agreement state the PDO as follows: "To improve access
    to Early Childhood Development (ECD) services and to improve learning outcomes of children in the most
    marginalized municipalities of Mexico."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    Component 1: Early Childhood Development Intervention (Appraised costs; US$ 30 million, actual costs not
    available in ICR). The component was to support an existing National Council for Education Development
    (CONAFE) ECD program so that it could be expanded to 172 of the most needy communities. Specifically, the
    component was to finance training of parents, relatives and caregivers of children aged 0-4 to improve their
    competencies and practices in caring for children and contribute to the children’s comprehensive development
    and school readiness. Activities were to include provision of technical assistance (TA) to design training materials
    for caregivers; training of parents/caregivers of children aged 0-4; and TA and training for ECD promoters,
    module supervisors, and zone coordinators to deliver training to caregivers.

    Component 2: Interventions in Basic Education (Appraised costs: US$ 63.2 million, actual costs not available in
    ICR). Activities were to support basic education in the most marginalized schools and municipalities, including:

    Subcomponent 2.1:
    (a) Provision of grants to compensatory schools under a Support for School Management (AGE) program for
    minor school repairs and rehabilitation, minor infrastructure improvements, and activities to improve the school
    environment and enhance collaboration and accountability mechanisms at the school level, plus capacity building
    of community advisors and parent associations.
   (b) Grants and capacity building support to Associations to Promote Community Education (APECs) in
   community schools under the FORTALECE program (the extension of school-based management to community
   schools).

   Subcomponent 2.2: Mobile pedagogical support to under-performing students, and to teachers and parents of
   students in under-performing schools, through mobile tutors, with particular focus on the 172 most marginalized
   municipalities, plus TA to design materials for tutors.

   Subcomponent 2.3: Technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of five selected municipalities to carry out
   strategic planning, and to delegate on a pilot basis to these municipalities the responsibility to carry out selected
   CONAFE activities to manage and supervise the provision of early childhood education services.

   Component 3: Project Monitoring , Management and Evaluation (Appraised cost: US$ 3.2 million, actual costs
   not available in ICR). Technical assistance and training were to strengthen CONAFE's capacity to implement the
   project. Provision of technical assistance and training to CONAFE and external stakeholders (such as
   associations with an interest in local development, municipal associations, etc.) to monitor and evaluate the
   project and other early childhood development programs.

   Appraised costs also included US$ 3.35 million in unallocated funds, plus a US$ 0.25 million front-end fee.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The project was approved in March 2010, became effective in August 2011, and closed as scheduled in June
   2014.

   Total project costs were estimated at US$166.7 million at appraisal, with a Government contribution of US$ 66.7
   million and an IBRD loan of US$ 100 million. The IBRD loan was fully disbursed. Total actual project costs are
   not clearly reported in the ICR. Project costs shown in Annex 1 appear to account only for loan funds (US$ 100
   million), though the financing sources table suggests that the actual Government contribution amounted to the
   appraisal estimate of US$ 66.7 million. This would suggest that total project costs were equivalent to the
   appraisal estimate of US$ 166.7 million. The Borrower's ICR (p. 40), however, states that the Bank financed
   100% of project costs and that there were no counterpart funds contributed. The project team later explained that
   the actual Government contribution was not tracked by the Bank, and therefore total project costs are not known.
   The Government contribution was in the form of its regular spending on CONAFE programs, with nothing
   earmarked in particular as project counterpart funds.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High: Mexico had made important progress in terms of education coverage at the pre-primary, primary, and
   secondary education levels, including in rural and marginalized areas, in the decade prior to the approval of this
   project. Education quality, and as a result learning outcomes, remained a challenge. Mexico presented the lowest
   Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) scores among Organization for Economic Cooperation and
   Development (OECD) countries. To tackle the issue of quality and low learning achievements, the Government
   had initiated several national programs, including one to increase parental and teacher involvement in education
   at the school level through school-based management. Recognizing the importance of school readiness, several
   ECD programs had also been rolled out. The Government sought Bank assistance to help improve and expand
   programs to improve quality of education and learning outcomes to rural and indigenous areas and at the same
   time also bring ECD services to marginalized communities. The PDOs of improving access to ECD services and
   improving learning outcomes in marginalized municipalities were thus highly relevant in terms of Mexico's
   education sector challenges. By supporting and helping to improve and target existing programs to marginalized
   areas, the PDOs were consistent with the Government's Education Sector Program 2008-13 and its current
   education program (2014-18), as well as the national development plan (2013-18), which has an inclusive Mexico
   and Quality of Education among its goals. The PDOs are also consistent with the Bank's CPS (2014-19), which
   supports improving ECD access and strengthening and expanding school-based management under its theme of
   "Increasing Social Prosperity."

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: Project components and activities were reasonably well aligned with the PDOs and built on evidence
   from evaluations which preceded project appraisal. Thus, the ECD program developed a module targeted at
   fathers/male care givers to increase their chance of participation, based on earlier experience of low participation
   by fathers. Similarly, an earlier evaluation had found that incorporating children into the training sessions for
   parents/care givers had improved the quality and effectiveness of and access to such parental training in ECD.
   Given low coverage of ECD in the 172 most marginal communities, training and supporting promoters and
   supervisors in these areas was also relevant to the objective of expanding access to ECD.

   In terms of improving learning outcomes of children in marginalized communities, the alignment of activities with
   the objective was a bit more mixed. There is evidence in the literature that giving children, particularly in
   marginalized areas, a head start through ECD can help them perform better in school later on. Providing tailored
   tutoring to teachers and students who underperformed in such communities was an innovative way to help
   improve their learning outcomes. The evidence is less clear with respect to school based management. An earlier
   evaluation of the AGE program had shown that school-based management and parental participation in school
   oversight and decision making could lead to reduced repetition and grade failure rates if certain conditions are in
   place. Among the factors that affect the effectiveness are local capacity. Thus the project did well to include
   training of community advisors and community/parent associations in project design. Evidence on effects of
   school-based management on learning outcomes in Mexico was not available at the time of project appraisal and
   the emerging international literature shows mixed results. The project did well to include impact evaluations on
   this and other novel aspects of the supported programs to help gain the necessary evidence on effectiveness of
   the programs


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Improve access to ECD in the most marginalized municipalities of Mexico : Substantial

   Outputs:
     The number of ECD service points in the 172 targeted municipalities rose from 2285 in 2009 to 3498 in
       2013, or 92% of the targeted 3821 service points. The ICR (p.11) states that the number of service points
       fluctuated as a result of a requirement that each service point serve at least eight families and that
       municipalities make a financial contribution.
     The project trained ECD promoters, supervisors and coordinators, but the ICR does not provide information
       on how many were trained. The Borrower's ICR (p. 32) states that 100 participants per region were trained,
       but it is not evident from the ICR how many regions the project covered.
     ECD training materials for promoters and parents were developed, and key materials were adapted to make
       them culturally more sensitive to indigenous peoples.
     An impact evaluation of ECD program was conducted.

   Outcomes:
   The project's key development indicator identified at appraisal and reported on at completion was the number of
   children in target communities who attended at least 80% of ECD sessions. While an increase in this indicator
   suggests higher access, it does not provide information about whether the share of the target population with
   access to ECD services increased. The target was exceeded, but at the same time, the number of parents who
   attended sessions fell somewhat short for joint parent sessions and substantially short for father-only sessions.

        The number of children 0-4 years of age who attended at least 80% of sessions of ECD intervention in 172
         target municipalities increased from 43,241 in 2009 to 57,983 in 2013, surpassing the target of 56,685
         (102% of target).
        The number of parents trained and attending at least 80% of sessions in the 172 municipalities rose from
         38,620 to 48,640, compared to a target of 52,670 (92% of target).
        The number of pregnant women attending at least one specific session for pregnant women went from 0 to
         1,317, compared to a target of 1761 (75% of target).
        The number of fathers trained and attending at least 80% of fathers-only sessions went from 0 to 1,714 in
         2013, falling significantly short of the target of 11,737 (15% of target).
        Results from a randomized control trial impact evaluation of the program suggest that parents attending
         ECD sessions displayed improved parental practices. The impact evaluation also found a significant positive
         effect on children's gross motor skills, and an overall positive, though statistically not significant, effect on
         other dimensions of child development. The project team clarified that the lack of statistical significance
         might be due to sampling issues (the sample was affected by a high attrition rate because of significant
         migration in the marginal areas where the project operated).

    Improve learning outcomes of children in the most marginalized municipalities of Mexico : Substantial

   Outputs
        Through school improvement grants, AGE provided capacity building for 47,286 parent associations per
         year in 2011-13, exceeding the annual target of 46,462.
        141,857 APF proposals were supported through improvement grants for school materials, small repairs, and
         maintenance work.
        Annual capacity building was provided for community advisors, teachers, and principals to support
         development and management of school improvement plans.
        1,373 FORTALECE entities were provided with capacity building, leading to approved work program/school
         improvement plans, exceeding the target of 1,338.
        1,942 school establishments were supported by mobile tutoring units, almost reaching the target of 2000.
         Mobile pedagogical support (API) was provided to 141,738 students in 2011 and 69,897 in 2012 in
         compensatory schools, and to 24,697 students in 2012 and 22,867 in 2013 in community schools (no
         targets). Tutoring in compensatory schools was discontinued after two years due to opposition from teachers
         and limited effectiveness. After that, API efforts were focused on community schools where the needs were
         larger (teachers in community schools often lack pedagogical knowledge, having only completed secondary
         school). API tutoring was also refocused on primary schools to help close learning gaps before primary
         students transitioned to secondary schools. An evaluation supported by the project showed that API tutors
         were not always able to communicate in the local language of indigenous people. This led to a change in
         selection criteria for API tutors across the entire program.
        Impact evaluations of the AGE and API programs were conducted.

    Outcomes
      Targets for grade failure rate reduction in community schools in the target communities were surpassed.
        Grade failure rates in community schools dropped from 22.1% in 2008/09 to 2% for primary schools (6th
        grade) in 2014 in target municipalities, and from 3% to 0.4% in secondary schools (3rd year secondary) over
        the same time period, surpassing the targets of 17% and 1.8% for primary and secondary schools
        respectively.
      Targets for grade failure rate reduction in non-community (compensatory) schools were surpassed for
        primary education but fell short for secondary education. Failure rates dropped from 8.4% to 1.9% for
        primary education (target was 5.9%) but increased from 3.4% to 4.7% in secondary schools (compared to
        target of 2.3%).
      Learning outcomes as measured by test score improvement surpassed targets in compensatory schools in
        target communities. ENLACE test scores increased from 432 to 513.7 for 6th graders (target 452) and from
        464 to 558.5 for 3rd graders (target 484). Improvements in the target schools helped narrow the gap
        between the national average and targeted compensatory schools, as well as between targeted
        compensatory schools and the compensatory school average. The ICR (p. 12) states that ENLACE scores
        were not available for community schools at the time of ICR preparation.
      Preliminary results of a randomized control trial of the project supported AGE program found that the
        program had a sizeable impact on learning outcomes of 3rd graders. The impact was not statistically
        significant, however, due to high standard errors resulting from large intra-cluster correlation, pointing to
        sampling issues.

5. Efficiency:

    The ICR (pp. 23-26) presents internal economic rates of return for three components of the project. It concludes
    that the ECD component yields an ERR of 11%, based on an expectation of higher earning potential of US$
    217.51/year through better cognitive and non-cognitive skills for children who are beneficiaries of the ECD
    program. The ERR for the API component is estimated at 16%, based on expected higher earnings of
    $707.76/year as a result of higher likelihood of transitioning from primary to lower secondary education and
    completing the latter. The ERR of the AGE program is estimated at 17%, based on higher expected earnings of
    $117.96/year due to reduced grade failure and higher likelihood of completing lower secondary education.
    No sensitivity analysis is included. IEG was not able to verify the accuracy of underlying assumptions.

    The above component ERRs compare favorably to the overall ERR presented in the PAD (PAD, p. 17), which
    ranged from 5% to 7.5% under various scenarios of improvements in educational attainment of project
    beneficiaries.

    The ICR (p. 14) also shows that unit costs for the ECD program were at the lower end of the ECD program unit
    cost scale, though it is not clear how comparable these costs are.

    The project was completed on time, and there are no reports of significant procurement or other implementation
    inefficiencies or transparency issues.

    It is not possible to determine from the information available in the PAD to what percentage of project costs the
   appraisal ERR range applies. Similarly, in the absence of overall and component/sub-component specific actual
   project costs, it can not be determined to what percentage of project costs the various ICR ERRs apply, though
   unit costs and number of beneficiaries presented in Annex 9 of the ICR suggest that the costs of the AGE
   program accounted for at least 50% of the loan amount.

   Efficiency is rated Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                          Yes                                     7.5%                                    100%

   ICR estimate                       Yes                                     17%                                     63%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   In supporting two existing Government programs aimed at increasing access to ECD and improving quality of
   education and learning outcomes, particularly in marginal areas, the project's objectives were highly relevant,
   both to some of Mexico's education sector challenges and the Bank's country strategy. Project activities were
   overall well aligned with objectives and included some innovative features. There is some evidence that the
   project helped increase children's access to ECD in the targeted communities and that participation in the
   program had a positive impact on some child development dimensions, though the impact on a broader range of
   child development outcomes is less clear. There is also some evidence that student learning outcomes in
   compensatory schools, which received the bulk of funds, improved, though student pass rates only improved for
   3rd grade in compensatory schools and worsened for 6th grade. By supporting a number of impact and
   qualitative evaluations, the project also helped introduce a culture of evaluation into the programs. While the pilot
   ECD classes for fathers only and on API tutoring encountered challenges, they yielded valuable lessons that are
   now being incorporated in further adjustments to the programs. The pilot to decentralize ECD management to
   municipal authorities did not succeed, but its outcome did not directly impact achievement of either of the PDOs.
   Available evidence suggests that resources were overall spent with reasonable efficiency.

   Relevance of objectives is rated high, and relevance of design, achievement of both objectives, and efficiency are
   rated substantial, resulting in an overall satisfactory project outcome.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Since the project supported segments of existing larger programs that continue to be supported with Government
   funds through CONAFE and follow-on Bank operations, and the 172 targeted communities will remain in these
   programs, the risk to development outcomes is low.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Project design made use of existing experiences and evaluations and included several innovative, albeit risky,
   aspects (e.g father-only sessions in ECD, API to support low performing students, piloting decentralization of
   CONAFE ECD activities to municipalities). Design also included several impact evaluations to help assess
   the effectiveness of new interventions and the effectiveness of the expansion of ongoing programs. According
   to the ICR (p. 16), the integrated management and monitoring system for all programs supported under the
   project was not implemented; a better initial analysis and understanding of the political economy surrounding
   the introduction of such a system might have led to an alternative approach. Design might also have given
   more consideration to API tutor selection criteria. On the positive side, however, the inclusion in project
   design of rigorous evaluations and follow-up allowed for program-wide corrective action on this and several
   other aspects. The results matrix had some shortcomings (see Section 10) and should have differentiated
   better between final and intermediate outcomes (particularly on the ECD side) and ensured that
   sub-component objectives and indicators were fully aligned with PDOs.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank provided adequate guidance and technical support, as pointed out in the Borrower's ICR (p. 33),
   and the Bank's participation helped strengthen the AGE and ECD programs. The Bank team was proactive in
   helping to address procurement bottlenecks. The ICR points out that the Bank might have formally revised
   baselines and targets for some indicators once it became known that baselines had been calibrated
   incorrectly, and that it might have restructured the project once it became clear that the information
   management module and the decentralization pilots were not going to be fully implemented. However, the
   Bank and the Borrower did agree to fund reallocation later on, and because the information system was
   dropped from the project, it is not clear that a formal restructuring would have added much or led to better
   development results.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   There was a 14-month effectiveness delay due to ongoing revisions in the standard contract between the
   Ministry of Finance, the National Financial Development Bank (NAFIN), and CONAFE. Throughout project
   implementation, however, the Ministry of Finance and NAFIN were supportive of the project, and the
   government continues to be committed to the supported programs as reflected by continuation of the program
   and engagement with the Bank on follow-on operations. CONAFE was regularly assigned federal budget in
   support of the programs.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   CONAFE ensured that the project was completed by the closing date, despite the 14-month delay in
   effectiveness, by starting activities even before effectiveness. It navigated the 2013 change in Administration
   and internal restructuring without significant disruptions to project activities. The ICR (p. 17) points to some
   delays in procurement processes, but the fact that the project was completed on time would suggest that
   these did not have a major impact on project progress and performance.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   While the results matrix had some shortcomings, the project's overall strength in M&E design (and
   implementation) lay in its ability to introduce several impact and qualitative evaluations to help assess various
   aspects of the supported programs. The third project component was explicitly designed to help evaluate the
   impact of some of the interventions, including impact evaluations of the AGE, ECD, and API programs. The PAD
   contained a results framework with outcome, intermediate, and final indicators. However, one of the principal
   outcome indicators (achievement gap as measured by test scores) was ill defined and consequently never
   measured as such. There was also a disconnect between some of the component-specific objectives as stated in
   the PAD and the overall PDOs, with two component objectives being stated more broadly than the PDOs. Some
   of the output indicators were not well aligned with project activities. The differentiation between intermediate and
   final outcome indicators was not always clear, particularly in the case of ECD.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Project indicators were consistently monitored by state CONAFE offices. Weaknesses in the M&E system were
   not addressed during implementation, but the baseline information for some indicators was updated informally
   and some targets were also informally revised. Several impact evaluations were undertaken to assess the
   effectiveness of the ECD, AGE and API programs. Several qualitative evaluations were also undertaken.

c. M&E Utilization:

   It is not clear from the ICR how frequently and effectively M&E information was used during implementation.
   According to the ICR (p. 8), findings from the impact evaluations of the API tutoring program and the ECD
   program were used to design a follow-on operation and led CONAFE to introduce several changes to these
   programs, as well as to the AGE program.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as a category C project. Only the indigenous peoples' safeguard was triggered, by
   virtue of the project targeting 172 among the most marginalized communities that had a relatively high
   concentration of indigenous populations (average across the 172 communities of 40%, compared to a national
   share of 20%). CONAFE developed an Indigenous Peoples Plan to guide program implementation which resulted
   in recommendations on how to better adapt project components. CONAFE adapted ECD materials to meet
   demands of indigenous children and parents. Under the API tutoring component, efforts were made to increase
   parents' and students' awareness of available remedial services through home visits by tutors. The ICR (p. 8)
   states, however, that preliminary impact evaluation results found that despite these efforts, API was not able to
   raise learning outcomes among indigenous peoples, partly as a result of API tutors not necessarily mastering
   relevant indigenous languages.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The ICR (p. 9) states that fiduciary compliance was sound. Audit reports were regularly prepared and were
   unqualified. Some issues arose from a lack of an integrated information technology platform that would have
   allowed control of all of CONAFE's financial management processes; instead, these had to be managed
   separately. Minor procurement delays resulted from delays in preparation of terms of reference, but all activities
   were completed by project closure.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



                                                                                            Reason for
12. Ratings:                                 ICR                  IEG Review
                                                                                           Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low              Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                      Moderately
                              Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                   Moderately              Government performance is rated
                                                             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory due the 14
                                                                                     months effectiveness delay.
                                                                                     Implementing Agency Performance is
                                                                                     rated Satisfactory, According to IEG
                                                                                     guidelines, this results in an overall MS
                                                                                     Borrower Performance rating.
                 Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Since the project piloted a number of innovations, the ICR (pp. 18-19) draws valuable operational lessons from
    these innovations. These include:

         Holding father-only sessions on ECD is not sufficient to get fathers to attend. Fathers are more inclined to
          attend sessions together with mothers, but such sessions need to be designed with attention to the
          cultural and gender norms prevailing in a particular target area. Furthermore, sessions need to be held
          after working hours to increase chances of fathers attending.

         When pairing students or low performing schools with tutors (API system), care must be taken to ensure
          that tutors can speak the local language in indigenous areas.

         High illiteracy in marginal areas calls for tutors to be trained to assist illiterate students.

         Engagement of parents is an important aspect of the tutoring model. Hence tutors need to make house
          calls on weekends to increase chances that both parents are at home, as mothers alone may be reluctant
          to receive a tutor in their houses.


14. Assessment Recommended?                    Yes      No

Why? IEG may wish to evaluate this project as part of a package of PPARs reviewing the Bank's experience with
operations supporting school-based management.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is concise and evidence-based. Overall it contains a fairly good and candid account of the project's
    achievements and challenges. It is, however, missing information on actual project costs. The annex on
    economic analysis might have benefitted from some sensitivity analysis.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
