Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17057-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION
TO
FlINDETER
GUARANTEED BY
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 21, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1997)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
COP 1,087.72 = US$1.00
US$0.00092= COP 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFT                                   Dep6sito a Termino Fijo (index of bank deposit rates)
FEDESARROLLO                          Fundaci6n para la Educaci6n Superior y el Desarrollo
(Foundation for Higher Education and Development)
FINDETER                              Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (Local Development
Bank)
GDP                                   Gross Domestic Product
GOC                                   Government of Colombia
ICB                                   International Competitive Bidding
IDB                                   Inter-American Development Bank
IFI(s)                                Intermediary Financial Instiution (s)
MDP                                   Municipal Development Project
PDT                                   Programa de Desarrollo Territorial (Municipal
Development Program)
SOE                                   Statement of Expenditures
SUPERBANCARIA                         Superintendencia Bancaria (Banking Superintendency)
UISDP                                 Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director: Krishna Challa, Acting
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eleoterio Codato



Colombia
Public Infrastructure Services Development Project
CONTENTS
A: P]ROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE                                                   2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators                   2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT                                                                2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                     2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices             7
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                                      7
1. Project components                                                             7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:                 7
3. Benefits and target population                                                 8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  8
D: PROJECT RATIONALE                                                               12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                     12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                           14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                              14
5. Vlalue added of Bank support in this project                                  14
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS                                                        15
1. Economic                                                                      15



ii
2. Financial                                                                     15
3. Technical                                                                     16
4. Institutional                                                                 17
5. Social                                                                        17
6. Environmental assessment                                                      17
7. Participatory approach                                                        18
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS                                                        18
1. Sustainability                                                                18
2. Critical Risks                                                                18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects                                                20
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS                                                            20
1. Effectiveness Conditions                                                      20
2. Other                                                                         20
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION                                                    21
I. COMPLLANCE WITH BANK POLICIES                                                   21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                    22
Annex 2: Project Description                                                       23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                   25
Annex 4 A: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                           26
Annex 4 B: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                     28
Annex 5: Financial Summary for FINDETER                                            30
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                 31
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                          33
Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                        33



iii
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule                                 34
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                          35
Annex 9 A: Statements of IBRD Loans and IDACredits                              37
Annex 9 B: Statement of IFC's Commited and Disbursed Portfolio                  38
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                   39
Additional annexes, where applicable: Letter of Sector Policy, Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
and Subprojects, and summaries of the Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental
Analyses, Indigenous Peoples' Plan, Resettlement Plan, etc.
Map: IBRD 18370R1



Colombia
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Date: May 21, 1997                                   Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eleoterio Codato
Countiy Manager/Director: Andres Solimano      Sector Manager/Director: Krishna Challa, Acting
Project ID: CO-PE-6861   Sector: Urban Development   Program Objective Category: Economic Management (EA)
(UY)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  fx] No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loan       [ ] Credit      [  Guarantee      [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$mn/SDRm): 75 million
Proposed terms:                        [    Multicurrency      [x] Single currency, US Dollars
Grace period (years): 5           [    Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed          [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75 %
Service charge: not applicable
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign            Total
FINDETER                                                  21.25                 0.00           21.25
IBRD                                                       0.00               75.00            75.00
Financial Intermediaries                                  18.35                0.00            18.35
Autonomous Public Entities and Private Companies           10.40               0.00            10.40
Total       50.00               75.00           125.00
Borrower: Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (FINDETER)
Guarantor: Re]public of Colombia
Responsible agency: FINDETER
1999       2000       2001      2002    2003
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    5.0        15.5        20.0      20.0    14.5
Cumulative    5.0       20.5         40.5     60.5    75.0
Project implem,entation period: 4 years  Expected effectiveness date: 10/30/98    Expected closing date: 06/30/03
OSD PAD Form.: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project (UISDP) is to contribute to the
expansion and solidification of the credit market for public autonomous and private providers of local
public services by enhancing FINDETER's capacity to offer long-term financing for urban infrastructure
investments.
This objective is complemented by those of the Second Municipal Development Project, financed by the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB), which aims at: (i) expanding and solidifying the subsovereign
credit market by enhancing FINDETER's capacity to finance municipal investments; (ii) strengthening the
financial and management capacity of municipalities to get better access to commercial borrowing and
improve the provision of municipal infrastructure services; and (iii) helping FINDETER become an
efficient second-tier financial institution.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17107-CO   Date of latest CAS discussion: November 6, 1997
The project supports the CAS goal of improving infrastructure services by establishing a financing
mechanism for public autonomous and private providers of urban public services. Indirectly, it also
supports two other goals, namely: (i) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency, and (ii) ensuring
sustainable development by supporting the thrust of the reforms mandated under Colombia's Urban Public
Services Law (Law No. 142 of July 11, 1994) and facilitating access to long term capital for sustainable
economic growth, respectively.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Because of the nature of the proposed project there are two sets of issues that need to be discussed. The
first set of issues has to do with the provision of urban infrastructure services, while the second is related to
local infrastructure finance and the role of FINDETER.
Urban Infrastructure Service Provision
There are approximately 1,060 municipalities in Colombia, of varied size and capabilities. The larger and
fiscally strong municipalities have moved quickly to take up new responsibilities and utilize their new
resources efficiently, while smaller municipalities are responding more slowly, hampered by weak
managerial, technical and financial capacity.
Low service coverage: Due to rapid urbanization, there is a growing demand for public services in
Colombian cities. The coverage of municipal services varies considerably with city and region, but
smaller cities and towns, as well as low- income areas in larger cities, still lack the most basic
infrastructure. Over 40 percent of urban streets nationwide are unpaved. Street maintenance is neglected
and traffic management remains non-existent even in the larger cities. And at least 30 percent of solid
waste in most cities remains uncollected.
Inadequate service delivery capacity of municipalities: Since the onset of decentralization policies of
GOC in 1983, local governments in Colombia have become increasingly responsible for the provision of a
wide range of public services including water and sanitation, solid waste disposal, health, education, urban
transport, market places, among others. The central government's on-going drive toward greater
decentralization and private sector participation (especially Law 142 of 1994) mandates municipalities to



Page 3
modernize their service provision. Municipal governments have been the main beneficiaries of the
decentralization process started in 1983 which have included measures to strengthen the democratic process
at the local level, foster community participation in local development, and eliminate the inefficiencies
associated with the provision by central agencies of services that are local in nature. However, despite
efforts to improve the institutional capacities of local governments, many continue to be unable to
adequately discharge their new responsibilities. Institution building is by definition a long term enterprise
and will continue to require continued effort through appropriate policies and incentives to improve the
capacity of Colombian municipalities to deliver public services.
Private sector participation in urban services. The Constitution of 1991 gave municipalities
responsibility for managing urban services. Law 142 of 1994 has made this mandate operational. The
law: (a) requires that service companies adopt business accounting and management practices, including
self-financing of capital investments; (b) sets deadlines for conversion of urban service providers into
public-, mixed-, or private-sector enterprises, and (c) establishes commissions to regulate each service.
FINDETER, however, is not yet prepared to assist local governments in complying with this key law. The
organization has lent overwhelmingly to the central administration of municipalities, and relatively little
even to public-sector urban service companies. It has made virtually no loans to private urban service
providers. GOC strategy calls for FINDETER to galvanize private-sector participation in urban services
through both technical assistance and finance. However, the organization currently largely lacks the staff
capacity and mechanisms to provide such services.
Local Infrastructure Finance and the Role of FINDETER
In recent years, the Colombian economy has been confronting increasingly difficult challenges. The sharp
deterioration of Central Government finances in the context of a persistent real appreciation of the
Colombian peso, continued inflationary pressures, and sluggish economic performance, together with
higher unemployment, led the Government and the Central Bank to adopt, in early 1997, a series of
restrictive fiscal and monetary measures designed to reverse these trends and restore macroeconomic
equilibrium. These measures have resulted in substantially higher real domestic interest rates, the
implementation of mechanisms to discourage external borrowing, stricter limits on overall public
indebtedness, and severe budget cuts, primarily affecting the public sector investment program.
Within this difficult overall context, three interconnected trends have particular importance for
FINDETER. First, competition has greatly increased in the financial services industry; Government
deregulation has removed many of the differences among the five types of IFIs (banks, financial
corporations, leasing companies, finance companies, and savings and loans), and has allowed IFIs to enter
new lines of financial business. Increasingly, all are competing for the others' formerly protected markets.
Removal of regulatory barriers and national ownership requirements has permitted the entry of foreign
banks. Also, both IFIs and Colombian companies are increasingly raising funds on international markets,
an alternative that creates competition between the local and international markets. Most of the formerly
public banks have become private, and are competing more aggressively. This much greater competition
has resulted in compressed lending margins. Second, the capital markets have grown in importance and
are expected to continue expanding, albeit gradually, offering new sources of longer-term liabilities. In
particular, the privatization of the social security system is channeling large amounts of resources to
private pension fund administrators. Third, new Government regulation requires IFIs to develop a much
greater sophistication in managing exchange rate, term, interest rate, and liquidity risks. Colombian IFIs
are currently struggling to create systems to manage these risks, many for the first time. In sum, these
changes have created a much more competitive environment, which offers FINDETER both risks and
opportunities, which are further explored below.
a) The changing regulatory environment of financial markets:



Page 4
The credit market. Because of the fast growth of subnational indebtedness during the 1990s, and the
central government's concerns for the fiscal impact of such a rise, a series of regulations were adopted to
limit expansion of the credit market. On the demand side, the GOC limited local governments' borrowings
to the level where debt service reached 30 percent of gross income-until the enactment of Law 358 in
December of 1996, which allows local governments to borrow until debt service reaches 40 percent of
savings. On the supply side, it increased the required debt-service coverage ratios of IFIs on loans to local
governments from 120 percent, then to 130 percent, and finally to 150 percent; and set the conversion
factor for weighting the risk of loans to local government at 150 percent, in contrast to most corporate
loans weighted at 100 percent.
These regulations reduced the attractiveness to IFIs of FINDETER's single loan product, which has
remained unchanged since 1990. In particular, the limits to onlending rates and the greater capital
requirements substantially cut the profitability of FINDETER loans for IFIs that are already highly
leveraged. One indication is that a portion of subprojects approved by FINDETER are not being financed
because of lack of IFI interest in brokering the credit. FINDETER loans have also become less competitive
to local government entities. A few IFIs now offer large local governments interest rates below those of
FINDETER (in part, because some IFIs at the moment have access to resources that are cheaper than those
available through FINDETER rediscounts), although FINDETER continues to offer much longer terms.
Facing pressures to produce infrastructure during their three-year terms, many mayors choose IFIs' quick
processing and disbursement over the narrowing interest rate and term advantage of FINDETER loans.
In sum, FINDETER loans have become less attractive to its two main clients, the IFIs and local
governments, because it has not responded effectively to the changes in its regulatory and market
environment. The institution has recently succeeded in reducing the length and complexity of its loan
application process somewhat; however, it has made no other changes in its products. Moreover, as its
market share has stagnated, the organization has come to view IFIs as unfair competition, rather than as
partners in local government lending.
The bond market. The development of capital markets and institutions and the lifting of Colombia's
prohibition in 1991 on local government bonds, has resulted in an emerging market for local government
paper in Colombia, one of the first in Latin America. However, bonds still account for a modest share of
local government credit (5 percent to 18 percent between 1991 and 1997). The largest municipalities
dominate this market, although some intermediate ones have also issued bonds. Thus far, most emissions
have been made in the national market to refinance existing municipal debt, but a few large municipalities
have plans to issue debt on international markets.
Bond issues on local and international markets represent an important opportunity for FINDETER. The
organization's strong equity position (see Section C.4 below) -48 percent of its funding- and the low
credit risk of its assets, which consist overwhelmingly of commercial bank debt, would make a properly
structured issue highly attractive on Colombia's capital markets, and help this market develop. An
international issue by FINDETER could have favorable characteristics that would promote both
Colombia's track record to investors and local government lending. However, FINDETER has lacked the
financial staff and a liabilities strategy necessary to pursue this opportunity wisely. Here, too, the
organization has yet to adapt to changing markets and regulations.
b) FINDETER's potential in the new environment:
The dynarnism of the credit and capital markets and the changes in the regulatory environment have
outpaced FINDETER's response capacity to date. Yet, these same changes provide the institution with an
important opportunity to develop new roles and products, in order to become a more efficient instrument of
local government finance and development. To do so, it must capitalize on its strengths, and overcome
some weaknesses.



Page 5
Strengths
FINDETER has an established history with its municipal clients. Its US$1 billion in loans have financed
critical physical investments that include water and sewerage systems (35 percent of loans in 1995), urban
roads (29 percent), schools (17 percent), and parks and markets (19 percent). The organization has
virtually no late payments and no defaults on its portfolio. The terms of FINDETER loans still compare
favorably with most available elsewhere, either through the other loans of commercial banks or through the
emerging municipal bond market. Although the interest rate differential between FINDETER and other
IFIs has narrowed, the length of FINDETER loans (8 to 12 years) continues to be much longer than that of
IFIs (typically, three to five years), providing a better match for the economic life of the infrastructure
financed. However, the effectiveness of its current long-term financing is hampered by the lack of any
debt-indexation mechanism in the context of a relatively high (but stable) inflation economy.
In addition, FINDETER has achieved a strong financial position. Equity now accounts for 48 percent of
its funding, compared with Superbancaria norms that require a minimum of 9 percent for financial
institutions. Thus, FINDETER has ample room to leverage its equity with more loans, and to innovate
carefully both in making loans (assets) and raising funds (liabilities). FINDETER also has strong public
sector support. The GOC has repaid the debt service on much of the Banks' project lending for
FINDETER, in order to contribute to the capitalization of the organization. Because of its track record and
knowledge of local government, the GOC has looked to FINDETER to administer an increasing portion of
its infrastructure grant programs (cofinancing) to municipalities. It has also given FINDETER a prominent
role in its social sector strategy, and is counting on FINDETER to help galvanize private-sector
participation in urban services.
Wealmesses
Despite these strengths, however, studies conducted as part of project preparation have identified specific
areas of its operations which need addressing for it to play a more effective and efficient role in the
municipal credit market. Broadly defined, these areas are: (i) FINDETER's operation as a second-tier
bank; (ii) the quality and sustainability of subprojects, and (iii) technical assistance delivery.
(i) Operation as a second-tier bank. Although, FINDETER is a second-tier financial institution, it has
only recently begun to meet three critical challenges that lie at the heart of this function. First, it
needs to further its capacity to meet the needs of its two key clients, commercial banks and local
service providers. Its single loan product has remained unchanged for the six years since the
organization's founding, even though the regulation and markets affecting urban service provision
have changed drastically. Second, the organization has only begun to manage many of the risks of
banking, including term risk, liquidity risk, and -most important of all- exchange rate risk. Yet
the organization does not have systems to manage these risks. Overall, FINDETER must hone its
capacity as a second-tier bank, through financial innovation in its assets and liabilities, and by
managing risks much better.
In addition, strengthening the banking function requires separating its grant management from
lending. The sheer volume of the cofinancing resources managed by FINDETER through its grant
funds -for urban development, for roads, and, most recently, for social investment- has increased
greatly in the past three years. And central government increasingly designates these grants for use
by specific local governments on pre-defmed projects before they reach FINDETER, thus increasing
the potential for politicizing their use.
(ii) Quality and sustainability ofsubprojects. FINDETER has tried to carry out many of the tasks of
the subproject cycle with its own staff. This and other problems (detailed in Section 10) have led



Page 6
the institution to perform unevenly in managing its subproject cycle and therefore in ensuring the
quality and sustainability of subprojects. Appraisal methods that had been developed for the first
Municipal Development Project (MDP) financed by both Banks were, in some cases, used
incompletely, with the result that many subprojects, especially in the water sector, suffered from
technical, financial and institutional shortcomings.
(iii) Technical assistance and institutional strengthening. Apart from preinvestment assistance linked
to subproject preparation, FINDETER has done little to facilitate technical assistance and
institutional strengthening more broadly to its municipal clients. Yet, the organization spends large
sums of money in its technical assistance function, which has primarily focused on preinvestment
support. FINDETER estimates that its total operational costs have increased from 2 percent to 4
percent of its loan portfolio from 1993 to the present. This burden blunts the organization's
competitive edge as a second-tier bank. Nevertheless, Colombia lacks and badly needs an
organization that coordinates technical assistance to help local governments modernize and meet the
great changes required by new urban service regulation, such as Law 142.
Recognizing the need to address these issues, FINDETER has elaborated a corporate strategic plan to be
implemented between 1997 and 1999. Said plan includes, among others, actions for: (i) the diversification
of financial products and funding; (ii) the improvement of risk management capacity; (iii) the improvement
of its cost accounting system; (iv) the strengthening of quality control of subproject review; (v) the
development of a municipal information bank and advisory services; and (vi) product promotion, and other
initiatives to fulfill its mandate. The implementation of the plan is supported by the parallel IDB operation
(see Section C.3 below).. Many of the changes envisaged under said plan have already been implemented
(see Section D.4 below).
Government Strategy
The GOC has responded to the above mentioned issues principally by pursuing greater decentralization
politically and operationally. It has taken various legal measures to empower municipalities by reformning
local taxation (Law 14 of 1983), revising the legal status of local governments (Law 11 of 1986), and
allocating increased shares of central government's revenues to municipalities (Law 12 of 1986), and
mainly, transferred responsibilities for the provision of local services from central agencies to
municipalities (Decrees 77, 78 and 80 of 1987). These changes have had a dramatic impact on municipal
revenue and expenditures, allowing municipal investments, for example, to grow from 0.7 percent in 1988
to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1994 (IBRD Report No. 15298-CO). Transfers have led a striking increase in
municipal revenues. They roughly doubled from 1988 to 1994, from 0.76 percent to 1.49 percent of GDP.
The rapid increase in transfers has had little or no negative impact on local fiscal effort; rather,
municipalities have maintained or increased their fiscal revenues. Own-source municipal revenues have
increased almost as fast as transfers -from 1.13 percent to 2.05 percent of GDP.
More recently, Law 142 of 1994 on the provision of urban public services further emphasized
decentralization by requiring major service provider utilities to become self financing and financially
autonomous service companies. The government has particularly placed an emphasis in this regard on
water utilities requiring them to develop management plans and operate on a business-like basis. The
government's strategy in this regard is clearly aimed at upgrading the management capacity of local
government entities in order to enable them to comply with the new requirements. Secondly, the
government strategy is to support reforms in FINDETER that will make it stronger and more efficient with
a view to furthering the GOC's modemization agenda on decentralization, private sector participation and
the deepening of financial markets. To assist in the implementation of this strategy, the GOC authorized
FINDETER to obtain financing from the Bank and the IDB.



Page 7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the clear Govermment strategy for FINDETER and the recognition that no single project can address
all of the sector issues related to urban infrastructure services provision in Colombia, choices were made
based on FINDETER's mandate, strengths and weaknesses, and the comparative advantages of the Bank
and the IDB. As a result, the Bank was asked to assist in establishing a financing mechanism for public
autonomous and private service providers in support of the Govermment's reform agenda for the provision
of urban public services, while the parallel IDB operation will support the structural reforms in
FINDETER to address the institutional issues discussed above through a program of technical assistance
for institutional strengthening and the continuation of FINDETER's financing of subloans for other
subnational entities. With its own capital, FINDETER will establish, as part of the parallel IDB operation,
a financing mechanism for technical assistance to local governments in order to support the upgrading of
municipal management capacity on a demand basis.
The proposed Bank project will assist in addressing the following issues:
*  increase service coverage by contributing to the financing of infrastructure investments to
develop, improve or expand the provision of local public services in eligible sectors;
*  develop the credit market for public autonomous and private providers of local public services,
by focusing project funds only on such providers and, thus, contribute to the implementation of
GOC's modernization agenda on decentralization, private sector participation and the
deepening of financial markets; and,
*  along with the parallel IDB operation, enable FINDETER to reestablish itself as a leading
institution in local infrastructure lending and municipal development.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financig    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
Urban Infrastructure Investments:
consisting of subprojects undertaken
by public autonomous and private   physical         125.0     100.0      75.0        60.0
entities to develop, improve or
expand provision of urban public
services in eligible sectors (including
detailed engineering design and
construction supervision costs to be
financed by counterpart funds from
project entities)
Total       125.0     100.0      75.0        60.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Through the financing of investments in urban infrastructure services, including supervision and quality
control, the project will support two policies which figure prominently in the GOC's reform agenda in the
infrastructure sector. Specifically, the project will: (i) assist the GOC in implementing the provisions of
Law 1.42 (corporatization of public entities providing urban infrastructure services); (ii) promote private
sector participation in public infrastructure; and (iii) contribute to the deepening of financial markets.



Page 8
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will improve urban infrastructure services in Colombian cities and towns. It will also enhance
the productivity of urban centers which generate the great bulk of national GDP-through improving the
efficiency of their physical plant, resulting in increased land values in beneficiary areas. The project is not
explicitly targeted to low-income groups, as most infrastructure investments are likely to benefit the general
population of municipalities and departments where FINDETER projects are financed. Nevertheless it is
expected that certain categories of investments, such as markets and expansion programs in water and
sanitation, will have a highly positive impact on the urban poor, and particularly on lower-income women.
Indirect benefits would accrue from the revision of FINDETER's subproject review and evaluation criteria,
resulting in the execution of more cost effective projects.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Background on the Borrower and Executing Agency:
FINDETER is an autonomous, quasi-public financial organization, which is linked to the central
government through the Ministry of Finance. It was established in 1989 (by Law 57 of 1989, Statutes
approved by Decree 789 of 1990 and modified by Decree 1916 of 1993) as a result of the decentralization
process and the restructuring of the Banco Central Hipotecario. It officially began operating in 1991 and
currently has as its chief functions to: (a) finance subnational investments through a rediscounting
mechanism, and (b) administer, through a trust facility, resources transferred to it by other public entities.
The law and its statutes also allow other types of financial operations such as the issue of financial
instruments, and the receipt of deposits from public entities. FINDETER's operations are subject to the
regulations of the Banking Superintendency-Superbancaria. Its financial management is sound and
consistent with Bank requirements.
FINDETER has an authorized capital of US$ 120.3 million equivalent comprised of 1 million shares. The
Republic of Colombia owns 91.51 percent of the shares and the remaining 8.49 percent is owned by the 29
departments that comprise the Nation. According to its statutes, FINDETER does not distribute profits.
Consequently, all profits are either transferred into statutory reserves, used to increase the capital, or as
contributions to special programs. This, along with asset revaluation, and the government's program for
capitalization, has given FINDETER a very strong financial position. Currently, its equity ratio is 62
percent. This translates into an important financial strength for FINDETER as it has ample margin for
leverage. A more detailed financial analysis of FINDETER can be found in the project's technical files.
In terms of organizational structure, FINDETER's highest authority is the Board of Directors, which has
six members: (a) the Minister of Finance, who presides it; (b) the Minister of Economic Development; (c)
the Economic Secretariat of the Presidency; (d) the Chief of the National Planning Department, and (e) two
representatives of subnational entities. Senior management is led by the President of FINDETER, who is
assisted by six senior executives in charge of the principal operational areas. As a result of its newly
formulated strategic plan, FINDETER is introducing changes in its organization in order to improve its
operation as a second-tier institution. The key areas to be restructured are the financial management and
loan processing departments. In addition, FINDETER is making organizational modifications in order to
facilitate changes in the content and delivery of the technical assistance it will offer to subnational entities.
FINDETER does not lend to local governments and service providers directly, but rather operates as a
second-tier bank by channeling its loans through intermediary financial institutions (IFIs), mainly
commercial banks. The transfers from central government to local governments, or revenue from service
tariffs or fees, serve as the main collateral for these loans. After appraising a project proposal,
FINDETER approves it and then authorizes an IFI to lend to the requesting entity. Until now, FINDETER
has rediscounted up to 85 percent of the total loan amount from the IFI, while the IFI retained 15 percent or
more of the loan in its own portfolio. Also, FINDETER has lent to IFIs at 2.5 percent over an index of



Page 9
bank cleposit rates (DTF), setting a maximum rate (DTF + 5 percent) at which IFIs can onlend to local
governments. IFIs keep 100 percent of the credit risk on the entire loan. Since its creation in 1989,
FIND]ETER has financed roughly US$1 billion in loans to over 700 municipalities (about 60 percent of
Colombia's municipalities) and has pioneered urban service lending in Colombia.
FINDE]TER has a good, long standing relationship with the Bank as the executing agency for several
projects, including the first Municipal Development Project (MDP; loan 3336-CO). Although the MDP
has represented only a small subset of FINDETER's operations, the Government of Colombia (GOC)
considers that the Bank's involvement has been instrumental in helping the institution improve
infrastructure project quality, incorporate lessons learned into its credit policies and regulations, and assist
the smaller municipalities in developing infrastructure investments. As a result, in 1995, the GOC,
reiterating and emphasizing FINDETER's central role in financing urban infrastructure services, authorized
the institution to seek new financing from the multilateral banks. Lessons from independent evaluations of
previous projects, which can be found in the technical files, have guided the project's objectives and design
(see discussion of lessons leamed in Section D.3 below).
Institutional Arrangements
FINDETER is the borrower and executing agency and the Republic of Colombia is the guarantor. The
Borrower will deposit the loan proceeds in a special foreign-exchange account to be established in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.
FINDETER will continue to operate as a second-tier institution, which rediscounts loans made to eligible
subborrowers by IFIs. For purposes of the project, FINDETER will rediscount the loans granted by the
IFIs, on terms and conditions specified in the project operational manual; specifically, FINDETER shall
rediscount up to 100 percent of the total loan amount from the IFI for loans with latter maturities of 8 years
or more, while continuing to rediscount up to 85 percent of all other loans.
Even though subnational entities, consisting of local governments and their agencies or enterprises,
including private or mixed capital companies operating on behalf of local governments may borrow from
FINDETER, only autonomous public enterprises and private or mixed capital companies will be eligible
subbotTowers under the project. The eligible financial intermediaries will be financial institutions that
habitually receive and invest voluntary savings of the public, are supervised by, and are in good standing
with thie Superbancaria, and have been appraised by FINDETER, using criteria and methods satisfactory
to the Bank, as being creditworthy, able to assess subsovereign credit risk, and having appropriate financial
controls, especially with respect to portfolio performance.
Implementation Arrangements
The project will be implemented over a period of about four years, from October 30, 1998 to December 31,
2002. The closing date will be June 30, 2003.
The implementation of the UISDP will be governed by a project operational manual. A preliminary version
of this document has been reviewed and discussed during project preparation. The project operational
manual is to be issued by FINDETER, to the Bank's satisfaction, as a condition of loan agreement
effectiveness. Once approved, the project operational manual may be changed only with the concurrence of
the Bank. Eligible sectors for financing under the UISDP are: water and sewerage, urban transport
(exclucing metro systems), environmental protection (including drainage and flood control), solid waste
management, bus terminals and river wharves, market places, parks and green areas, slaughterhouses, local
telecommunications, education, health, gas distribution and other sectors that may be agreed upon between
the BorTower and the Bank. The project operational manual shall also include subproject appraisal
methods and criteria, as well as subproject preparation guidelines and procedures used by FINDETER's
staff, intermediaries and subborrowers in carrying out their respective functions under the project.



Page 10
Maximum individual subproject size for the UISDP will be $15 million equivalent. Subprojects estimated
to cost more than $10 million equivalent will be presented to the Bank's project team for ex-ante review,
while subprojects estimated to cost $10 million equivalent or less will be (i) authorized by the Bank after
receiving summary information thereon and (ii) reviewed ex-post by the Bank, by sampling (see below).
The project operational manual also includes the eligibility criteria for participating IFIs and the financial
conditions of the subloans. FINDETER will rediscount credits at a variable rate to be determined
semiannually and based on its funding costs in such a way as to ensure adequate levels of return on equity,
as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. Maturity and grace periods for subloan amortization will be
established for each sector of investment, with maximums of 12 and 3 years, respectively. Intermediaries
will assume the credit risk and charge a spread to be determined by market conditions. For purposes of the
project, onlending terms and credit policies, as established in the project operational manual, shall be
changed only with the concurrence of the Bank.
The legal instruments for onlending will consist of: (a) commitment agreements to be executed between
FINDETER and an eligible project entity in respect to the execution of a subproject; (b) subloan
agreements to be executed between the IFIs and the subborrowers in respect to the financing of a
subproject; (c) if the subproject plan includes contributions by third parties, sponsoring agreements to be
executed between said sponsors and the subborrower; and (d) promissory notes to be executed between
subborrowers and IFIs and endorsed by the IFIs to FINDETER once all other applicable instruments under
(a), (b) and (c) above are in place. FINDETER has been using similar instruments for its ongoing
operations and agreed to provide the Bank with model instruments, satisfactory to the Bank, it intends to
use for purposes of the project as condition of loan effectiveness.
Subproject appraisal, monitoring and evaluation
In the UISDP, FINDETER will focus on ensuring that the subprojects it finances comply with agreed upon
economic, financial, institutional and environmental guidelines included in the project operational manual.
The detailed design and appraisal functions are expected to be the responsibility of eligible project entities
who will contract directly the specialized consulting services needed to carry out such tasks. The costs of
these services may be financed by FINDETER through other funding sources, or be recognized as a
counterpart investment. Consultants will use the sectoral guidelines and subproject design instruments
provided by FINDETER. FINDETER's role will be to: (a) develop and continually update project
appraisal tools; (b) disseminate and promote these tools among eligible project entities and financial
intermediaries, and (c) rapidly review and confirm that the appropriate analyses have been completed, in
accordance with project operation regulations and existing sectoral policies.
FINDETER has been reviewing, completing and updating the guidelines and preparation manuals for each
sector-in the water and sewerage sector this effort has been done in collaboration with the Water
Regulatory Commission, of the Economic and Social Development Ministry. For the UISDP, sectors in
which subprojects may be financed will be declared eligible as soon as the appropriate guidelines and
instruments for the respective sector are completed and agreed upon with the Bank, and are included in the
project operational manual.
Given the lessons learned in the context of the MDP, and in order to improve subproject quality,
FINDETER will: (a) ensure that new appraisal instruments and methods in each sector are applied
consistently; (b) confirm that required demand studies are carried out, and that size and design of
subprojects are based on projected demand for services; (c) verify that community consultations (especially
with low-income groups) have been carried out, in order to ensure the capacity to pay of potential
beneficiaries and/or identify the sources of subsidies, should these be necessary; and (d) promote and
disseminate sectoral appraisal guidelines and instruments among eligible project entities, financial
intermediaries, and consultants.



Page 1 1
FINDETER will also seek to improve the appraisal, execution and monitoring of subprojects through: (a)
the use of its information system to list and make available to its clients names and references of available
consultitng services in the different sectors; (b) inclusion of basic eligibility and selection criteria for
consultants who will design and/or appraise subprojects, based on a points system that takes into account
both technical capacity and previous performance; (c) require that participating financial intermediaries
place greater emphasis on the supervision of projects, which would be contracted independently following
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and (d) carry out ex-post evaluations annually of no less than 10
percent of all subprojects financed each year, as part of a process of continuous feedback and adjustment of
guidelines and methods.
Finally, recognizing that project quality and sustainability depend not only on appropriate design, but also
on the success of the start up, implementation and management of projects, FINDETER will require a
business plan -duly approved by the appropriate sectoral authorities- for each public service investment
it finances. In the absence of such a plan, the subproject to be financed will include the development of a
business plan in order to ensure its financial sustainability and autonomy in the long run.
Tariffs and cost recovery
FINDETER will include in the commitment agreements with project entities and/or cause to be included in
subloan agreements between IFIs and subborrowers, the obligation that the tariffs or other charges applied
for the respective service, shall generate revenues for the project involved that:
(a) in the case of certain urban public service subprojects, such as water and sewerage, urban sanitation,
and local telephone services, following the requirements and timetables under Law 142 of 1994, will, at
least, be sufficient to recover all fixed assets over their economic life, a reasonable level of profits for
the service operator as regulated by the law, as well as the operating costs of the respective system,
including those connected with administration, operation and maintenance. This will also be verified
by the executing agency through the service operator's Management and Performance Plan (Plan de
Gesti6n y Resultados) mandated by Law 142, which should either have been approved by the
competent authorities prior to subloan approval or be an integral component of the subproject to be
financed using project resources; and
(b) in other cases of public service subprojects to be financed through tariffs, but which are not covered by
Law 142, or for subprojects in which the investment must be recovered other than by means of tariffs,
the agreements with the subborrowers should stipulate conditions that ensure recovery of the
investment, in accordance with the agreed targets, and of all the operating, administration and
maintenance costs, through charges, rentals, taxes or other contributions suited to the purpose. The
specific wording of this obligation must be in accordance with the requirement laid down for each
particular sector, as detailed in the project operational manual.
FINDETER will verify, prior to the first disbursement from each subloan financed with project resources,
that the respective subborrower has made appropriate arrangements with the competent national authorities
to ensure compliance with the obligations detailed in the preceding paragraph.
The cost-recovery requirements laid down in the project operational manual are consistent with the relevant
Bank policies and constitute an instrument of the GOC's decentralization policy, which seeks to encourage
greater fiscal discipline and improved resource management at the local level. Also, they are consistent
with the requirements laid down for the Second Municipal Development Project financed by the IDB.
Maintenance
Each subborrower will commit to operate and maintain the works and equipment financed with project



Page 12
resources in accordance with generally accepted technical standards, and to make available the resources
necessary for their efficient operation. During execution of the project and for five years afterwards the
Bank will be allowed to visit and inspect all projects and programs, and, if unacceptable levels of
maintenance and upkeep are found, it will be the obligation of the agency involved to take all necessary
steps to correct it.
Project Monitoring and Reporting:
For the duration of the project, FINDETER will prepare an annual project progress report and present it to
the Bank by March 31 of the following year, with the first of such progress reports to be presented by
March 31, 2000. The progress reports will describe past achievements and compare them to appraisal
projections, provide a critical assessment of problems arising during project execution, and propose
appropriate remedial actions.
Annual reviews and midterm review:
Each year, by June 30, FINDETER, the Guarantor (through DNP) and the Bank project team, will carry
out formal joint reviews of the project. The reviews will focus particularly in the goals, outputs and
activities set forth in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1). These reviews will provide a forum to assess
project issues, and if necessary, will lead to the formulation of steps for remedial action.
One of the annual reviews will be a midterm review, to take place two years following the date of loan
effectiveness or when 50 percent of the loan resources have been committed for subloans approved or
authorized by the Bank, whichever comes first. By midterm, FINDETER shall have accomplished the
following: (a) committed financing in an aggregate amount of not less than the equivalent of 50 percent of
the Bank loan for purposes of the project by a date two years from the date of the Loan Agreement, and
disbursements under said operations shall have taken place normally thereafter; (b) entered into firm
commitments for the financing of loans with repayment terms of eight years or more, made or to be made
for subprojects for, at least, 75 percent of FINDETER's portfolio balance, as calculated in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) complied with the provisions of the project operational manual on the
basis of an ex-post assessment of a sample, chosen at random, of not less than 10 percent of subprojects
approved under the project. If the above targets are not met, FINDETER will take remedial action as
agreed with the Bank in order to meet such targets within a period of six (6) months from the date of the
joint review or, if circumstances so require, a different period as jointly agreed.
Accounting and Auditing Arrangements:
During the execution period of the loan, FINDETER will maintain separate project accounts for each of the
components. Such accounts as well as FINDETER's financial statements shall be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Eligible project entities will be required to keep separate
subproject accounts and have them audited by independent auditors in a manner satisfactory to
FINDETER, so as to enable it to comply with its obligations under the Loan Agreement. Additionally,
FINDETER's auditors shall audit subproject accounts on a sample basis. FINDETER's audit reports
should be submitted to the Bank annually within 180 days of the close of the fiscal year (i.e., by June 30 of
each year).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
An initial alternative was considered in which the Bank would cofinance with the IDB a second municipal
development project. This alternative included the possibility of supporting institutional changes in
FINDETER that would result in a deepening of the municipal credit market, while continuing to provide
financing for FINDETER's municipal lending. Even though this alternative represented an improvement



Page 13
over the first Municipal Development Project, it was rejected due to difficulties in making the project
operational rules satisfy the requirements of both banks, especially with regard to procurement
arrangements. Given the Bank's worldwide experience in facilitating private sector participation and the
high priority that the GOC attaches to private sector participation and the corporatization of public entities
as a means to improve coverage of urban public services, FINDETER decided to request Bank financing
for a project that would finance investments of public autonomous and private entities for developing,
improving or expanding the provision of such services.
The reviews and evaluations done (see Section B.2 above) confirmed that the municipal credit market in
Colombia is segmented and is "capital poor" in that potential investment needs -especially on the part of
medium and smaller local entities- exceed available resources. They also confirmed that when funds are
available maturities were still not on par with long term financing needs. Despite progress made in that
loan terms are now longer than they were in the past and a few larger local entities have been able to access
capital markets, terms are up to 5 years with commercial bank loans and up to 8 years in the case of
municipal bonds. For a number of market and procedural reasons, access to capital markets through bond
issues remains an option only for the larger municipalities, hence leaving fewer options for a large number
of other local entities. Thus, there clearly is a need for funds, and there exists a niche in the municipal
credil: market for longer term lending products for local infrastructure that can be provided by FINDETER.
The two projects, that is, IDB's Second Municipal Development Project and the proposed Bank project,
complement each other well. While the parallel IDB operation will support changes in FINDETER to
allow it to play a lead role in promoting the expansion of the municipal credit market and continue to
rediscount municipal loans, the UISDP will concentrate on providing much needed financing for
investments in urban public services made by public autonomous and private entities, thus supporting the
GOC's goal of promoting private sector participation in urban service provision and the reforms envisaged
under Law 142 of 1994.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                       Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
water supply and sewerage      Multi-Cities W/S& Sewerage                n.a.              S
urban development              Urban Development I                       n.a.              S
water supply and sewerage      Cali Water Supply and Sewerage            n.a.              U
urban development              Urban Development II (Cartag.)           n.a.               U
urban development              Urban Development III (Insfopal)         n.a.               U
water supply                   Bogota Water Supply III                  n.a.               S
emergency reconstruction       Popayan Reconstruction                   n.a.               S
water supply and sewerage      Cucuta Water Supply & Sewerage           n.a.               S
water supply                   Bogota Water Supply IV                   n.a.               S
water supply                   Barranquilla Water Supply                n.a.               U
water supply and sewerage      Water Supply & Sewerage Sector            n.a.              S
municipal development          Municipal Development Project             S                 S
urban transport                Bogota Urban Transport                    S                 S
water supply                   Santa Fe I                                 S                S
Other development agencies (IDB)
municipal development          Municipal Development Project
municipal development          Second Municipal Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
n.a. (not applicable; loan already closed)



Page 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The first MDP has had an overall positive impact on the project entities which received subloans and
technical assistance under it. During project preparation, lessons from FINDETER's experience to date
were derived from a number of sources, including: (a) two independent ex-post evaluations of the first
MDP, based on the analysis of an indicative sample of subprojects financed with IDB and IBRD resources;
(b) an evaluation of a technical assistance initiative financed by the IDB during the first stage; (c) external
evaluations of an earlier water sector project [Programa de Ajuste Sectorial (PAS)] financed by the Bank,
and (d) IDB and Bank project team field visits. These assessments pointed to the need to improve several
aspects of the subproject cycle, particularly subproject appraisal, monitoring and ex-post evaluation.
A summary of the shortcomings found in FINDETER's performance in the appraisal stage of the project
cycle includes the following: (a) uneven use of sectoral appraisal criteria and methods, and an ensuing
uneven quality of analysis within and among sectors; (b) financial analysis limited to loan repayment
capacity estimates; (c) overly long project processing periods, due to FINDETER's effort to do itself much
of the analysis and preparation, without sufficient technical personnel; (d) absence of instruments such as
unit cost systems with which to carry out economic analysis, especially in the water sector. The
evaluations also noted deficiencies in monitoring projects under execution and an absence of an ex-post
evaluation mechanism to assess quality and sustainability of works financed by FINDETER.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
As a result of a strategic planning exercise that followed the diagnostic study funded by the PHRD grant,
FINDETER has drawn an action plan and started to irnplement important changes both in its organization
and credit policies. For example, in the first half of 1997, FINDETER's board removed the cap on the
interest rate that IFIs could charge on subloans financed by FINDETER. IFIs are now free to negotiate
with individual subborrowers, thus pricing their loans in accordance with specific market conditions. Also,
the former "Projects Department" (FINDETER's loan processing department) has been reorganized into a
"Loan Department" and an experienced banker has been selected to manage it. This will contribute to the
cultural change that will allow FINDETER to improve its operation as a second-tier institution. These
measures, among others already taken, and the fact that FINDETER will be mobilizing the equivalent of
about US$ 21 million of its own capital for the project are a reliable indication of its comnimitment and
ownership.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Continued IBRD and IDB financing remains an important source of long term capital for the development
of urban infrastructure services in Colombia, since the domestic capital market has thus far not mobilized
an adequate level of resources for long term investments such as those contemplated under the project.
Furthermore, the Bank's participation is expected to help maintain strict standards of subproject quality.
During project preparation, the participation of the Bank and the IDB has already facilitated the
identification of an institutional vision and strategy for FINDETER, through a strategic planning exercise
(led by FEDESARROLLO, a Colombian think tank which produced the document "El Mercado de Credito
Territorial y las Estrategias de Participaci6n de FINDETER", December 1996) and other studies
supported by a PHRD grant (TF No. 29375-CO). Armed with a deeper understanding of the rapidly
changing business environment, and with a new vision of its future, FINDETER is taking steps to integrate
its operations increasingly with the capital markets within Colombia through diversification of its funding,
better loan product design and pricing as well as better selection of project entities.



Page 15
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X I Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 1.3 million; ERR= 31.8% [X ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
All investment proposals will be evaluated by either cost-benefit analysis or cost-effectiveness analysis, as
discussed in Annex 4 (A and B). Cost-benefit analysis was carried out for a sample consisting of five
investment proposals for a total cost of about US$ 21.8 million equivalent (about 17 percent of total
project cost). Said analysis yielded a weighted (by investment cost) average return of 31.8 percent.
Overall, the economic feasibility of the project is guaranteed by a minimum economic rate of return of 12
percent for most subprojects financed by FINDETER (see Annex 4 for details).
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$ 246.9 million; FRR= 24.14 %
Demand for subloans
The following exercises were carried out to help determine project size: (a) projections regarding the
indebtedness capacity of subnational entities, in light of the new regulation on subsovereign indebtedness
(Law 358 of 1997), and under different scenarios; (b) estimates of the anticipated evolution of current
income of departments and municipalities in the medium term; (c) estimates of expected demand for the
financing of basic infrastructure investments from departments and municipalities, and (d) FINDETER's
potential share in the subnational credit market, given the new financial products and credit terms and
c.onditions that will apply in the UISDP. These demand projections are based on the analysis of the
subnational credit market carried out by FEDESARROLLO under the study mentioned above.
In recent years, the level of FINDETER's net disbursements to municipalities and other project entities,
including IBRD and IDB resources under the MDP, has ranged between US$130 million and US$170
million per year. To determine whether the size of the proposed UISDP is appropriate, projections
regarding net credit demand from local governments and service providers were carried out under two
different scenarios. Even though said projections were made for the net demand for FINDETER loans,
including those to finance local governments, the high percentage of loans made in the past for water
supply and sewerage, and schools (about 52 percent of all FINDETER loans), as well as those
contemplated for new investment proposals under the sample reviewed (see Section E.3 below), confirms
that the size of the proposed UISDP is appropriate.
Under the first set of projections, it is assumed that a new lending instrument -indexed loans with partial
capitalization of the nominal component of the interest rate- is introduced by FINDETER. Under this
scenario, it is assumed that 60 percent of future subloans are financed using FINDETERs regular credit
products, and the remaining 40 percent under the new partially indexed credit facility. Under the second
one, no indexed credits are offered during the loan execution period. The analysis of these two scenarios
results in projections of average overall net credit demand by central subnational administrations of
between US$750 million and US$600 million, respectively, for the period 1998-2000. This would imply
an annual net credit demand of US$250 million, should the partial interest capitalization instrument be
adopted, and of US$120 million, if it were not. Therefore, given the level of potential demand for net
resources during the project execution period, and the new credit policies likely to be adopted by
FINDETER, the size of the proposed UISDP, at an average level of about US$28 million per year,
including local counterpart resources, is considered to be appropriate.
Fiscal and financial impact
The project has no significant fiscal impact, since FINDETER does not receive any capital or operational
financial contributions from the Government.



Page 16
A strong financial position is currently one of FINDETER's chief advantages. With a low debt/assets ratio
of 37.9 percent, it has ample room to develop new financial instruments that will provide the necessary
capital for continued operations. FINDETER has demonstrated that there is a solid demand for subloans.
With the setting of adequate lending terms and conditions under the new project, it should not have any
difficulties in placing the additional resources and regaining competitiveness in the municipal credit market.
The introduction of new loan amortization modalities, such as the partial capitalization of the nominal
component of the interest rate, is feasible, since similar instruments (the UPACs) have been in use in the
Colombian market for a number of years. Finally, as the IFIs bear the entire credit risk of the loans to
eligible project entities, FINDETER is protected in this regard.
Therefore, the project is expected to have a positive result for FINDETER in that, together with the parallel
IDB operation, it would allow the organization to grow an average of 20 percent per year as planned over
the next five years. This growth is expected to be financed, practically in equal shares, by debt and equity.
For the five years projected total new debt would amount to approximately US$290 million, of which
US$130 million would be loans from the Bank and the IDB (US$75 million and US$60 million,
respectively), and US$160 million will come from new financial instruments that FINDETER will start
using in the future. An analysis of FINDETER's projected statements shows that its financial expenses
will rise from 10.4 percent of income in 1996 to 39.9 percent of income in 2001, as a result of the new mix
of debt. Administration expenses are expected to remain at a level average equivalent to 118 percent of the
1996 level. Consequently, as the volume of operations increase, the ratio of administration expenses to
income will decrease, from 19.9 percent of income in 1996, to 11.5 percent of income in 2001. The
expected combined result will allow for a healthy operating margin, although lower than that of previous
years. Under the project, FINDETER shall be required to maintain a minimum level of return on equity of
five (5) percent annually.
Likewise, the project should have a positive result in respect to subborrowers. Because of strict utility
services regulation imposed by Law 142 of 1994, project entities (whether public autonomous, mixed-
capital, or private enterprises) are subject to demonstrating that their financial situation is sustainable in
order to qualify for investment loans. In addition, subproject appraisal criteria should enhance efficiency in
the allocation of investment resources, thus contributing to improve the financial performance of project
entities.
3. Technical:
FINDETER is undertaking a review of the methods, guidelines and instruments it uses to ensure the
appropriate appraisal of subprojects, both as a result of the lessons learned in the first MDP and the
analysis of a sample of subprojects to be financed under the proposed UISDP.
On the basis of the evaluation of the first MDP, FINDETER will adjust existing economic appraisal
methods as needed, establish cost-efficiency parameters for each eligible sector and corresponding type of
investment, and make the necessary changes in the project operational manual and subproject preparation
guidelines. By using these revised criteria and instruments, the appraisal process will be speedier and more
relevant, and will enhance efficiency in the allocation of investment resources, while taking into account the
need to promote the competitiveness and effectiveness of FINDETER as a second-tier financial institution.
For project appraisal, FINDETER presented a sample of 70 subprojects for a total of US$72 million. The
sample includes subprojects in all sectors financed by FINDETER, but a high proportion (almost 70
percent) is concentrated in the water supply, sewerage and education sectors. These sectors are likely to
predominate in the execution of the UISDP and where project entities tend to be public autonomous, mixed-
capital or private companies. An evaluation of the sample, supported by two groups of independent
consultants, using criteria substantially similar to those expected to be incorporated in the final operational
manual, identified a need to strengthen institutional and financial aspects in many of the subprojects. As a



Page 17
result of this assessment, FINDETER is reviewing and/or reformulating several subprojects in the sample,
together with project entities, to improve their design and ensure compliance with economic, financial,
institutional and environmental requirements. It is expected that, as a result of the review and
reformulation process, about 28 subprojects from the sample, totaling some US$28 million, could
eventually qualify for Bank financing, and that during the first year of the project FINDETER could
commait a further US$22-25 million, for total subproject approvals of some US$50 million in UISDP
resources.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency:
As mentioned before, FINDETER has a good, long standing relationship with the Bank as executing
agency for several projects. Under previous and ongoing Bank-financed projects, its performance has been
satisf.actory. As an autonomous, quasi-public financial organization subject to the regulations of the
'Banking Superintendency, FINDETER is relatively free of political interference. Its staff consists of a
relatively stable group of capable professionals and its facilities are adequate.
Its present management has demonstrated commitment to the completion of an action plan for institutional
change, object of the country-Bank dialogue during project preparation and the focus of the institutional
strengthening component of the parallel IDB operation. The GOC has also shown support for the far-
reaching operational reforms in FINDETER that will enable it to achieve greater efficiency in term
transformation, develop new financial products and diversify its funding base to include capital market
funds. Although the institution will require organizational changes to execute adequately the IDB-financed
project, these are considered attainable in a short period and should not hinder FINDETER's capacity to
implement the proposed project. Since its founding, FINDETER has reached an acceptable degree of
institutional and operational capacity that the organization can well reorient towards the requirements of the
proposed UISDP and the parallel IDB operation.
b. Project management:
Even though FINDETER's Vice President of Finance is the representative for purposes of submitting
requests for withdrawal from the Loan account, project management responsibilities are dispersed
throughout FINDETER with ultimate responsibility vested in its President. Project management
arrangements are described in the project operational manual which builds upon FINDETER's many years
of experience with the implementation of similar projects. As mentioned above, FINDETER has reached
an acceptable degree of institutional and operational capacity that should make the proposed arrangements
for project management virtually risk free.
5. Social:
Due to the demand based nature of the credit line envisaged under the project, it is clearly not possible to
predict the specific investments which will actually be financed and, therefore, a detailed social analysis
cannot be performed at this stage. However, the project operational manual will incorporate environmental
and social appraisal criteria which will ensure that social aspects are taken into account in the design and
implementation of subprojects by incorporating the participation of the beneficiary communities in the
choice and design of investments to be financed.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [] A   [x] B   []C
The analysis performed to prepare an Environmental and Social Impact Report (prepared by the IDB
project team; copy available in the PIC) concluded that the type of projects to be financed by the project -
whic]h cover a wide range but are expected to be concentrated in urban roads, water and sewerage, and
education sectors- have, in general, a beneficial environmental impact. In most cases, potentially negative



Page 18
environmental effects are known and can be mitigated through the use of procedures and instruments
familiar to users and legally mandated by Colombian law, as well as through the sectoral guidelines and
appraisal criteria used by FINDETER that are consistent with applicable Bank guidelines.
Evaluations of the first stage of the MDP identified some problems in the project cycle which affected
subproject quality and sustainability. Important among these was the insufficient attention given to
community participation in the design, execution and maintenance of the investments. For the UISDP,
FINDETER is incorporating into the project operational manual -specifically in the manuals used for the
preparation and appraisal of subprojects, by sector- guidelines regarding community participation in
subproject development and execution. FINDETER is also including in the project operational manual and
in the subproject preparation guidelines, which are disseminated among FINDETER clients, environmental
norms and guidelines for all sectors eligible for financing, by type of subproject. FINDETER, per the
project operational manual, will ensure that in the contracting of works subborrowers include
environmental measures, as well as sanctions for noncompliance of same. Finally, through the annual ex-
post evaluations carried out each year and financed by the project, FINDETER will monitor the
environmental aspects mentioned and the level, type and effectiveness of community participation in the
subproject cycle. The results of such evaluations will be discussed in the annual reviews of project
implementation
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Participation of community groups will be ensured during subproject planning through environmental and
social evaluations, and service demand studies as mandated under the project operational manual.
Participation of project entities and financial intermediaries has been ensured through consultations and
visits by Bank missions. Also, to ensure proper response from project entities and financial intermediaries,
FINDETER will disseminate the sectoral appraisal guidelines and instruments it will use under the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The proposed project has benefited from extensive consultation and collaboration between the Bank and the
IDB, given that its parallel operation to finance a Second Municipal Development Project was prepared
concomitantly, with missions being fielded together. During project implementation the same level of
consultation and collaboration should be maintained given that the two projects are intertwined.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will be sought by using appropriate economic, institutional, financial and
environmental criteria in the appraisal of subprojects. In the ultimate analysis, however, sustainability will
depend on the financial strength and credit-worthiness of public service providers that borrow from
FINDETER. Because service utilities have to comply with Law 142 by preparing acceptable management
and performance plans, this would ensure proper financial management and level of cost recovery.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
1. Deterioration of economic conditions such as a  M      Colombia's progress in the structural
substantial fall in real GDP and/or household         reforms and relatively strong
incomes could adversely affect the feasibility of     international reserves.
market-rate loans for urban public services.



Page 19
Risk                        Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
2. Lack of continued government commitment to        M         Historical trends, GOC's strong
decentralization and private sector participation           support to a well-established
in the provision of urban public services                   framework for decentralization and
private sector participation in the
provision of urban public services.
3. Political interference that substantially          S        GOC's strong support to the role of
compromises the institutional and operational               FINDETER and regulation by the
capacity of FINDETER.                                       Banking Superintendency. The Bank's
continuing dialogue with the country
will help to maintain the present level
of support.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
1. Lack of interest as well as financial and         M         FINDETER has demonstrated that
technical capacity on the part of service                   there is a robust demand for its
providers to measure demand, formulate                      subloans. The development of new
appropriate subprojects and seek FINDETER's                 loan products by FINDETER coupled
financing.                                                  with greater dissemination of
subproject evaluation criteria should
contribute to maintaining a strong
demand for its financing.
2. Lack of interest as well as financial and         M         Private sector has already demonstrated
institutional capacity on the part of the private           interest and readiness to participate in
sector to participate in the provision of urban             the provision of urban services in
public services.                                            Colombia. The normative framework
(Law 142) is adequate for promoting
private sector participation.
3. Deterioration of the regulatory framework and     N         Even with changes in government, the
technical support for greater auitonomy and                 trend has been towards greater
private sector participation in the provision of            autonomy and private sector
urban public services.                                      participation in the provision of public
services. The Bank's continuing
dialogue with the country will help
maintaining this trend.
4. Counterpart funding shortages                     M         FINDETER's solid financial position
would allow access to financial markets
in the event of possible shortfalls in
counterpart funds. Strong demand
base for FINDETER's subloans.
Overall Risk Rating      M         Some of the risks were identified
through evaluations of the first MDP
and addressed during project design.
Other possible risks are clearly
identified and, overall, the risk
minimization measures listed above are
considered adequate.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no likely controversial aspects outside of those discussed in the risk analysis section contained in
Section F.2 above.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  issue the project operational manual to the Bank's satisfaction.
*  submit model instruments satisfactory to the Bank for: (a) commitment agreements to be executed
between FINDETER and an eligible project entity in respect to the execution of a subproject; (b)
subloan agreements to be executed between the IFIs and the subborrowers in respect to the financing of
a subproject; (c) if the subproject plan includes contributions by third parties, sponsoring agreements to
be executed between said sponsors and the subborrower; and (d) promissory notes to be executed
between subborrowers and IFIs and endorsed by the IFIs to FINDETER once all other applicable
instruments under (a), (b) and (c) above are in place; and.
2. Other:
*  By midterm, FINDETER shall have accomplished the following: (a) committed financing in an
aggregate amount of not less than the equivalent of 50 percent of the Bank loan for purposes of the
project by a date two years from the date of the Loan Agreement, and disbursements under said
operations shall have taken place normally thereafter; (b) entered into firm commitments for the
financing of loans with repayment terms of eight years or more, made or to be made for subprojects
for, at least, 75 percent of FINDETER's portfolio balance, as calculated in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; and (c) complied with the provisions of the project operational manual on the basis of an ex-post
assessment of a sample, chosen at random, of not less than 10 percent of subprojects approved under
the project. If the above targets are not met, FINDETER will take remedial action as agreed with the
Bank in order to meet such targets within a period of six (6) months from the date of the joint review
or, if circumstances so require, a different period as jointly agreed.
*  FINDETER will include in the commitment agreements with project entities receiving loans from
project resources, the obligation that the tariffs or other charges applied for the respective service, shall
generate revenues for the project involved that:
(a) in the case of public service projects, such as water and sewerage, urban sanitation, and local
telephone services, following the requirements and timetables under Law 142 of Urban Public
Services of 1994, will, at least, be sufficient to recover all fixed assets over their economic life, a
reasonable level of profits for the service operator as regulated by the law, as well as the operating
costs of the respective system, including those connected with administration, operation and
maintenance. This will also be verified by the executing agency through the service operator's
Management and Performance Plan (Plan de Gesti6n y Resultados) mandated by Law 142, which
should either have been approved by the competent authorities prior to subloan approval or be an
integral component of the subproject to be financed using project resources; and
(b) in other cases of public service projects to be financed through tariffs, but which are not covered
by Law 142, or for projects in which the investment must be recovered other than by means of
tariffs, the agreements with the subborrowers should stipulate conditions that ensure recovery of
the investment, in accordance with the agreed targets, and of all the operating, administration and



Page 21
maintenance costs, through charges, rentals, taxes or other contributions suited to the purpose.
The specific wording of this obligation must be in accordance with the requirement laid down for
each particular sector, as detailed in the operational manual.
*  FINDETER must verify, prior to the first disbursement from each subloan financed with project
resources, that the respective subborrower has made appropriate arrangements with the competent
national authorities to ensure compliance with the obligations detailed in the preceding paragraph.
*  Each subborrower will commit to operate and maintain the works and equipment financed with project
resources in accordance with generally accepted technical standards, and to make available the
resources necessary for their efficient operation. During execution of the project and for five years
afterwards the Bank will be allowed to visit and inspect all projects and programs, and, if unacceptable
levels of maintenance and upkeep are found, it will be the obligation of the agency involved to take all
necessary steps to correct it.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[xl Not applicable.
[ J The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
im,plementation.
[xil Not applicable.
Ix] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[xl The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
a) the final draft of project operational manual; and
b) model instruments for: (a) commitment agreements to be executed between FINDETER and an
eligible project entity in respect to the execution of a subproject; (b) subloan agreements to be
executed between the IFIs and the subborrowers in respect to the financing of a subproject; (c)
if the subproject plan includes contributions by third parties, sponsoring agreements to be
executed between said sponsors and the subborrower; and (d) promissory notes to be executed
between subborrowers and IFIs and endorsed by the IFIs to FINDETER once all other
applicable instruments under (a), (b) and (c) above are in place.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[xl  This project complies    all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Le~d&Tasl~ Manager: Eleoterio Codato
_/6
Sector Manager/ Acting Di o:Krishna Challa
Country "anager         dr6s Soliman o



Page 22
Annex 1
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                           (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improvement of infrastructure   Creation of mechanisms to
services.                  facilitate private sector
participation in the provision
of urban public services.
Project Development                                                                 (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                         CAS Objectives)
1. Contribute to the       - FINDETER's loan portfolio   - Annual project progress  - Macroeconomic stability;
expansion and            for urban public services   reports, and FINDETER
solidification of the credit   increased by 10% per year in   loan records and audits;  - Continued govermnent
market for public        real terms;                                             commitment to
autonomous and private    - By December 1999, less than  - Annual project progress  decentralization and private
providers of urban public    10% of investment proposals   reports, and FINDETER  sector participation in the
services by enhancing    approved by FINDETER        loan records and audits;    provision of urban public
FINDETER's capacity to    were not financed by IFIs;                             services;
offer long-term financing   - Financial sustainability  - Indicators used by the Public
for urban infrastructure  achieved by at least 50% of  Services Regulatory      - FINDETER remains free of
investments.             subprojects financed by      Commission                 political interference that
FINDETER based on                                      substantially compromises its
management plan by the                                 institutional and operational
project completion date.                               capacity.
Project Outputs                                                                    (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Improved availability and   - After 2 years of the date of    - Annual project progress  - Political or economic
terms of loans to public  the Loan Agreement, at least   reports, and FINDETER     conditions do not
autonomous and private   75% of IFI loans            loan records and audits;      deteriorate.
providers of urban public    rediscounted by FINDETER
services and IFIs.       have repayment terms of at
least 8 years;
2. Enhanced financial      - After 2 years of the date of    - Annual project progress  - Real household income and
capacity of subborrowers,   the Loan Agreement, copies    reports, and FINDETER  real GDP remain stable;
including eligible project    of management plans for  loan records and audits;  - Implementation of Law 142
entities, for urban service    urban service improvement   - Data from the Public Services   on public services continues
delivery.                from 90% of subborrowers,   Regulatory Commission       without interruptions;
including eligible project
entities, in water and
sanitation and other sectors
comprised by Law 142 of
1994 are being received
_  regularly by FINDETER.    I_I



Page 23
Project Comnponents                                                                (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2for a detailed
description.]
1. Subproject loans made,    - At least 70% of         - Annual project progress   - Interest as well as financial
rediscounted and         FINDETER's estimated loan    reports, and FINDETER      and technical capacity on the
disbursed to public      disbursements for each      loan records and audits;    part of urban public service
autonomous or private    subproject reached within                               providers to measure
companies for improving    two years from the date of                            demand, formulate
urban infrastructure     Loan Agreement;                                         appropriate subprojects and
services.               - The share of IFI loans to  - Annual project progress   seek FINDETER's financing;
service companies increased    reports, and FINDETER
to at least 15% of new IFI  loan records and audits;  - Interest as well as financial
loans within two years from                            and institutional capacity of
the date of the Loan                                   private sector to participate in
Agreement, and to at least                             the provision of urban public
25% by the Closing Date;                               services;
- At least 50% of the Bank  - Annual project progress
loan funds is committed     reports, and FINDETER     - Evolution of regulatory
within two years from the   loan records and audits;   framework and technical
date of the Loan Agreement                             support for greater autonomy,
with disbursements having                              and private sector
taken place normally                                   participation in the provision
thereafter;                                            of urban public services;
- Have been in compliance   - Annual project progress
with the provisions of the  reports, and FINDETER     - Adequate capacity on the part
Project Operational Manual    loan records and audits;  of FINDETER and
on the basis of an ex-post                             subborrowers to mobilize
evaluation of a sample,                                counterpart funds.
chosen at random, of not less
than 10% of completed
projects financed by
FINDETER and subject to
the rules and procedures
provided for in said Manual
and the provisions of the
Loan Agreement, including a
proportion of subprojects
financed under the project of
about half of said sample.



Page 24
Annex 2
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$ 125.0 million (total cost of component)
Infrastructure Investments. The project's single component will support the financing and
execution of subprojects through FINDETER's rediscounting of subloans provided to eligible
public service providers by IFIs. Said subprojects will consist of investments to rehabilitate,
improve or expand the provision of urban public services by public autonomous entities and
private companies in eligible sectors under local government responsibility such as: water supply
and sewerage, urban transport (excluding metro systems), environmental protection (including
drainage and flood control), solid waste management, bus terminals and river wharves, market
places, parks and green areas, slaughterhouses, local telecommunications, education and health,
gas distribution and other sectors as approved from time to time by the Bank and FINDETER.
The total cost of component includes those in connection with detailed engineering design and
construction supervision. These costs are estimated at about $6.25 million and will be financed
entirely by counterpart funds.



Page 25
Annex 3
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Comoonent                                              Local             Foreign        Total
--  - ------------US $ million---------------
Infrastructure Investments
- Infrastructure Subprojects                                63.4            51.8           115.2
- Engineering Design and Supervision la                      3.2              2.6            5.8
Total                                                              66.6             54.4          121.0
Total Baseline Cost
Price Contingencies                                              2.2               1.8            4.0
Total Proiect Cost                                                 68.8             56.2          125.0
Notes:
/a: estimated at five (5) percent of infrastructure subproject costs.



Page 26
Annex 4 - A
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
For a sample of five subprojects in the total investment amount of US$ 21.8 million equivalent
(Currency: Colombian Pesos; Units: million; Base Year: 1997)
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis
Benefis
Water Supply - Acuagirardot                           851.9
Water Supply - Emp. Pub. Pereira                    1,987.5
Water Supply - Mun. Manizales                       1,768.6
Water Supply - EMCALI EICE                         15,258.4
Roads - Mun. Bucaramanga                            5,666.1
Total Benefits                             25,532.5
Costs
Water Supply - Acuagirardot                           816.2
Water Supply - Emp. Pub. Pereira                      800.0
Water Supply - Mun. Manizales                       1,548.0
Water Supply - EMCALI EICE                         15,250.0
Roads - Mun. Bucaramanga                            5,650.0
Total Costs                                24,064.2
Net Benefits:
Water Supply - Acuagirardot                            35.6
Water Supply - Emp. Pub. Pereira                    1,187.5
Water Supply - Mun. Manizales                         220.6
Water Supply - EMCALI EICE                              8.4
Roads - Mun. Bucaramanga                               16.2
Total Net Benefits                           1,468.3
IRR:
Water Supply - Acuagirardot                              13
Water Supply - Emp. Pub. Pereira                        53
Water Supply - Mun. Manizales                           15
Water Supply - EMCALI EICE                              30
Roads - Mun. Bucaramanga                                41
Weighted Average IRR                           31.8
Analysis Methodology
Urban transport. The project will finance mostly investments in urban roads. Some of these are very
small investments. It is therefore necessary to develop a structured approach to economic analysis.
Subprojects are classified according to their costs: a subproject is considered small if the investment is less
than US$ 300,000 equivalent; others are large. Large subprojects are subject to full economic feasibility
analysis. Small subprojects are mostly resurfacing of roads or paving of local neighborhood streets and
will be evaluated on the basis of cost-effectiveness criteria (see first part of Annex 4). The benefits of road
subprojects (paving, widening and rehabilitation) are savings in vehicle operating costs and savings from
decreased travel time due to reduced congestion and improved road condition, while the benefits of traffic
management subprojects are mostly savings from decreased travel time due to reduced congestion. Large



Page 27
road and traffic management subprojects will be considered acceptable if the estimated economic internal
rate of return (EIRR) is above 12%.
Terminals. The project may finance the construction, expansion and rehabilitation of transport terminals
for either passengers or freight. The benefits of transport terminal subprojects are safer conditions for the
handling of passengers and freight. If investment is more than US$ 300,000 equivalent, it will be subject
to full economic feasibility analysis. The cost-benefit analysis for large investments will be based on
returns generated by rental charges and fees for the use of the facilities, since such returns are considered
a good proxy for the consumer surplus brought about by the investment. Thus, large transport terminal
subprojects will be considered acceptable if the estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is above
12%.
Marketplaces and Slaughterhouses. The project will finance the construction, expansion and
rehabilitation of markets and slaughterhouses. Like in roads, large investments in marketplace and
slaughterhouse, i.e., those valued at more than US$ 300,000 equivalent will be subject to full economic
feasibility analysis, while smaller ones will be evaluated on the basis of cost-effectiveness criteria (see first
part of Annex 4). The benefits of marketplace and slaughterhouse subprojects are improved sanitary
conditions for the processing and marketing of foodstuff which ultimately translate into health benefits
and productivity gains. The cost-benefit analysis for large investments will be based on returns generated
by rental charges and fees for the use of the facilities, since such returns are considered a good proxy for
the consumer surplus brought about by the investment. Thus, large marketplace and slaughterhouse
subprojects will be considered acceptable if the estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is above
12%.
Recreational Facilities. The project may finance investment in different types of recreational facilities
such as parks, arenas, coliseums, libraries, swimming pools, community and cultural centers, etc. All
subprojects for which financing is based on user charges or fees -such as in the case of metropolitan or
regional parks, arenas, coliseums, swimming pools and cultural centers- will be subject to full economic
feasibility analysis. The cost-benefit analysis of such subprojects will be based on the flow of income
generated by user charges or fees. Such subprojects will be considered acceptable if the estimated
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is above 12%. Investments in playgrounds, neighborhood parks,
libraries, community centers for which the use of user charges or fees are not practicable, subprojects will
be considered acceptable if they satisfy cost-effectiveness criteria (see first part of Annex 4).
Assumptions on Economic Costs:
Market prices in Colombia, particularly for tradable goods, exchange rates and labor, provide a reasonably
good approximation to the opportunity costs. Therefore, it has not been necessary to restate market prices
in terms of their economic equivalents. With market lending rates for working capital at about 30% plus
and inflation of about 18% per year, the opportunity cost of capital was assumed at 12%.



Page 28
Annex 4 - B
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
For Small Subprojects' and All Investments in Solid Waste, Health and Education, and Water and Sanitation
Cost-Effectiveness Indicators
FINDETER has been developing a series of cost-effectiveness indicators that have a minimum statistical
reliability of 80 percent for investments in solid waste, water supply and sewerage as well as for small
market subprojects. These indicators consist of different unit cost ratios based on least cost designs. Top
values for such indicators are used as a cut-off rate in assessing the economic feasibility of a proposed
investment or subproject. FINDETER will continue to develop such indicators for other types of
investments and update cost-effectiveness indicators throughout the implementation of the proposed
project and inform the Bank periodically (every six months) about changes in the values of such
indicators. No Bank loan funds will be committed for the financing of subprojects for which the Bank has
not received and accepted the applicable cost-effectiveness indicators.
Analysis Methodology
Cost-effectiveness analysis aims at identifying the optimal project from an economic standpoint, i.e., that
which minimizes the economic cost. The analysis involves a series of steps including: (a) assessing
demand properly, including efficiency gains where applicable; (b) selecting the least cost altemative; (c)
choosing the right size (that which minimizes the net present value of the least cost altemative),
considering economies of scale vis-a-vis the cost of capital; and (d) choosing the optimal inception
moment where applicable. This methodology is to be used by FINDETER when an increase in demand
for a particular service is expected. It is most suitable for new projects or expansions, while for
rehabilitation subprojects only a selection of the least cost alternative would apply.
Small Subprojects. Investments in roads, terminals, marketplaces and slaughterhouses individually
valued at less than US$ 300,000 (equivalent) will be assessed by cost-effectiveness analysis in order to
ensure least-cost designs. The cost-effectiveness indicators to be applied are those commonly accepted in
the different sectors. In addition, these subprojects will be required to comply with the applicable
technical standards.
Sanitation. Sewerage and wastewater treatment will generate health benefits as a result of reduced
ground and surface water contamination. These benefits are not easy to quantify and accrue to
communities as a whole rather than to the direct recipients of these services and, therefore, no quantitative
cost-benefit analysis will be required. Planning and design will follow commonly accepted technical
standards, taking into account population density, ground water table level, surface water flows, and least
cost alternatives. Service providers are subject to the same regulation that applies in the case of water
supply (see below).
Solid Waste. The main benefits are health and environment related, resulting from cleaner air and
water. Because they spread not only to the direct beneficiaries but also to the whole community and are
difficult to quantify; no cost-benefit analysis will be carried out for this type of investment. Subproject
designs will follow least-cost criteria and will be evaluated on the basis of cost-effectiveness indicators.
Health and Education. The project may finance investments in local health and education, such as
construction, expansion or rehabilitation of health posts, local hospitals, schools, etc. The main benefits
are improved access to health care and education services which ultimately translate into health benefits
Those valued at less than US$ 300,000 equivalent.



Page 29
and increased productivity. Because such benefits spread not only to the direct beneficiaries but also to
the whole community and beyond, and are difficult to quantify, no cost-benefit analysis will be carried out
for this type of investment. In addition to follow sector-specific standards established by the competent
authorities, subproject designs will follow least-cost criteria and will be evaluated on the basis of cost-
effectiveness indicators.
Water Supply. The main benefits of water supply subprojects are increased availability of clean, piped
water at reduced cost, which ultimately translate into health benefits and productivity gains. In Colombia,
the providers of this service have to comply with national regulation (Law 142 of 1994) which determines
that, at a minimum, revenues must be sufficient to recover all fixed assets over their economic life, a
reasonable level of profits for the service operator as regulated by the law, as well as the operating costs of
the respective system, including those connected with administration, operation and maintenance. This
will be verified by FINDETER through the service operator's Management and Performance Plan [Plan de
Gesti6n y Resultados (PGR)] mandated by Law 142, which should either have been approved by the
competent authorities prior to subloan approval or be an integral component of the subproject to be
financed using project resources. Thus, tariffs are deemed to guarantee financial returns that permit
service providers to be self-financing and financially autonomous. Therefore, no cost-benefit analysis will
be required for this type of investment because the financial return is considered a lower bound to the
economic return.



Page 30
Annex 5
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Financial Summary for FINDETER
Years Ending December 31: 1994 through 1999
(In Millions of Current Colombian Pesos)
1994       1995        1996       1997        1998        1999      Average
Annual
Growth
Actual                            Forecast
Income Statement Items
Revenues                        69,424     112,402     137,332    134,036     177,632     224,199     28.1%
Operating Income                37,582      54,465     95,384      66,240      93,706     123,425     32.5%
Net Income                      10,628      15,038     27,681      10,774      24,028      37,411     48.6%
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                64,340     105,425    137,034     124,535     171,798     218,765     30.0%
Borrowings                     121,756     105,010    133,677     134,411     210,552     259,572      18.8%
Total Sources               186,096     210,435     270,711    258,946     382,350     478,337      22.0%
Capital Expenditures               436        254       9,976       3,210       3,549       3,821    747.2%
Working Capital Increase       171,857     184,919    244,321     204,321     348,942     433,010     23.6%
Debt Service                    13,804      25,262     16,414      51,415      29,859      41,506     51.7%
Total Applications          186,096     210,435     270,711    258,946     382,350     478,337      22.0%
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                 297,621     389,640    451,594     534,691     698,616     902,364     25.0%
Less Current Liabilities     132,609    204,390    275,917     333,765     411,680     511,908      31.6%
Net Fixed Assets                 1,280       1,826      11,819     14,404      17,257      20,311    129.9%
Total Assets                298,901     391,466    463,413     549,095     715,873     922,675      25.4%
Debt                           165,012     185,251     175,678    200,926     286,936     390,456     20.1%
Equity                         133,889    206,215     287,735     348,169     428,937     532,219     32.4%
Total Liabilities and Equity  298,901   391,466     463,413    549,095     715,873     922,675      25.4%
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue                      54.1        48.5       69.5        49.4        52.7        55.0      3.0%
Net Income as a
% of Revenue                      15.3        13.4       20.2         8.0        13.5        16.7     14.1%
Return on Average Invested            7.8        7.1         8.3         6.0        4.5         6.4      -0.5%
Capital
Debt Service Coverage                10.3        12.3        5.7        14.8        7.0          7.8     16.8%
Percent of Total Working Capital     37.4       57.0        56.1        61.0       49.2        50.5       8.5%
Increase financed by Internal
Sources
CurrentRatio                         1.80       2.10        2.57        2.66       2.43        2.31      0.06%
Debt as % of TotalCapitalization     55.2       47.3        37.9        36.6       40.1        42.3      -4.5%



Page 31
Annex 6
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of goods and works will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" of January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 and
the specific provisions set below.
Since only public autonomous entities' and private companies in charge of public services are
eligible for project funds, contracts for goods or works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$
2.0 million and US$ 5.0 million, respectively, will be procured following the usual commercial procedures
of the entity or company in question, provided such procedures shall, except as otherwise agreed by the
Bank, ensure competition. Generally, said commercial procedures consist of widely accepted practices of
the private sector involving competitive bidding often based on comparing three price quotations
containing the required specifications and obtained from qualified bidders. However, each contract for
goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 2.0 million or more and US$ 5.0 million or more,
respectively, will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) and will be subject to the
Bank's prior review. In addition to being awarded through ICB, each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 10.0 million or more will be advertised in accordance with the
pnrocedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. These limits are justified
considering that in similar projects in the country, international participation is attracted when amounts
exceed these limits.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Only contracts procured in accordance with ICB procedures will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Because of the nature of the project (which will provide financing to investment proposals on a
demand basis), it is difficult to estimate the level of prior review by the Bank in terms of the total value of
contracts financed from the Bank loan. It is expected that a small number of such contracts will be subject
to prior review which shall be complemented by systematic post review by Bank staff of five (5) percent of
the contracts.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds by category and the disbursement percentages
proposed in each category. Consistent with regional practice, some local expenditures are financed from
Bank loan proceeds. The table below shows the estimated disbursements from the IBRD loan, by Bank
fiscal year.
'Public autonomous entities operate under private commercial practices for procurement and are not bound by the
Guarantor's Law 80.



Page 32
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Bank FY     1999         2000          2001           2002           2003
Annual    5.0           15.5          20.0           20.0          14.5
Cumulative    5.0          20.5           40.5          60.5           75.0
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements from the loan in respect of payments made for eligible expenditures in connection
with contracts for goods or works awarded following ICB procedures as described above will require full
documentation. All other disbursements from the loan in respect of payments made for eligible
expenditures will be made against statements of expenses (SOEs), for which full supporting
documentation will be retained by the Borrower and project entities, and made available to the Bank and
the auditors on request.
Special account:
In order to facilitat- ',sbursements, the Borrower will establish a Special Account in a
commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, to be maintained in US Dollars, with an authorized allocation
in an amount equivalent to $7.5 million. The initial deposit will be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3.0 million until the cumulative disbursement from the Loan plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank reaches or exceeds $10.0 million, after which time the
Special Account could reach the authorized allocation. Payments out of the Special Account will be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures under the project. Replenishment of the account will be made on a
monthly basis in accordance with a request or requests for deposit furnished by the Borrower.



Page 33
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Sub-projects                 21.0          0.0        97.7         6.3         125.0
(13.7)       (0.0)      (61.3)       (0.0)        (75.0)
Total                         21.0         0.0        97.7         6.3          125.0
(13.7)       (0.0)      (61.3)       (0.0)        (75.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under counterpart funds
provided by project entities). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under
"Other" will consist of the usual commercial practices of the public autonomous entity or
private company in question.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Annex 6, Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
(1) C'ivil works in respect to approved                  53.6       85 % of the amounts
subprojects                                                     disbursed by
FINDETER to IFIs
in respect to
approved subloans
(2) CGoods in respect to approved subprojects            21.4       85 % of the amounts
disbursed by
FINDETER to IFIs
in respect to
approved subloans
Total             75.0
lFor details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional. to Table A, where applicable).



Page 34
Annex 7
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
308.2                365.0
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                               28
First Bank mission (identification)               _//19              07/23/1995
Appraisal mission departure                     06/30/1997           06/30/1997
Negotiations                                    11/05/1997           11/05/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      / /19             10/30/1998
Prepared by: FINDETER
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant (country-executed), Spanish Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Eleoterio Codato (LCSFP)                   Urban Management Spec.
Roberto Cucullu (LEGLA)                         Legal Counsel
Ofelia Haase (LCSFP)                      Task Team Assistance
Menahem Libhaber (LCSFP)                        Water Engineer
Thakoor Persaud (LCSFP)                          Economist
Teresa Serra (LCSES)                       Environmental Spec.
Oscar Alvarado (LCSFP)                    Institutional Development
Mauricio Cuellar (LCCCO)                         Procurement
Francisco Ayala (Cons.)                      Economic Analysis
Hernando Garzon (Cons.)                      Municipal Finance
Marcela Huertas (Cons.)                 Capital Markets Development
Alfonso Mejia (Cons.)                       Financial Analysis
Edgar Martinez-Leets (Cons.)                  Operational Support
Tim Campbell (TWUGL)                           Peer Reviewer
Vincent Gouarn6 (TWUWS)                         Peer Reviewer
Hemant Shah (FPS)                            Peer Reviewer
Note: The task team leader for the parallel IDB Second Municipal Development Project is Mrs. Alicia
Ritchie (RE3/SO3).



Page 35
Annex 8
Urban Infrastructure Services Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Manual de Operaciones de FINDETER
2. Plan Estrategico Corporativo 1997-1999
3. Plan Estrategico Corporativo 1997-1999. Consolidado-Presupuesto, Agosto de 1997
4. Actores Interinstitucionales, Abril de 1997
B. Bank Staff Assessments (including IDB Staff)
1. Informe Ambiental y de Impacto Social, BID, Octubre de 1997
2. Analisis de la Muestra del Segundo Programa de Desarrollo Territorial, Septiembre de 1997
3. Financial Analysis of FINDETER (Period 1994-1996)
4. FINDETER: Potential Role in Capital Markets Development
5. Analisis de Enfoque Selecto para el Desarrollo de una Estrategia Corporativa de FINDETER, Julio 1997
6. Structure of Municipal Finances, Fiscal Decentralization and Credit Policy Reform (1987-1995), Feb. '97
C. Other
1. El Mercado de Cradito Territorial y Estrategias de Participaci6n de FINDETER FEDESARROLLO,
Diciembre de 1996
2. Estudio de Evaluaci6n de Resultados de Proyectos Financiados por FINDETER Conforme a las Politicas del
Programa de Desarrollo Territorial - PDT; Informe Final. Planeamiento y Gestion de Proyectos Ltda.,
Diciembre de 1996
3. Evaluaci6n de Resultados de los Proyectos Financiados por FINDETER Conforme a las Politicas del Programa
de Desarrollo Territorial - PDT-BM; Informe Final. Grupo de Consultorias Integrales S.A. - Gerencial Ltda.,
Marzo de 1997.
4. FINDETER. Analisis Institucional para la Evaluaci6n de Proyectos, Junio de 1997
5. FINDETER. Capacidad de Pago de las Entidades Territoriales, 1997
6. FINDETER. Cartera de Proyectos del Programa SPDT, Abril de 1997
7. FINDETER. FINDETER y la Participaci6n Privada en Agua Potable y Saneanmiento Basico - Politica y
Estrategia (Versi6n Final), Mayo de 1997
8. FINDETER. Guia de Presentaci6n de Proyectos de Inversi6n; Acueducto y Alcantarillado, Julio de 1997
9. FINDETER Guia de Referencia para la Evaluaci6n Tecnica Ex-ante en Proyectos de Acueducto, Julio de 1997
10. FINDETER. Guia para la Evaluaci6n Ex-post de Proyectos de Agua Potable y Saneamniento BAsico, Junio de
1997
11. FINDETER. Guia de Seguimiento para Proyectos; Subsectores de Acueducto y de Alcantarillado (VP-GS-01-
01/2), Junio de 1997
12. FINDETER. Inforne de Avance, Prestamo No. 3336-CO, PDT-BM, Abril 30 de 1997
13. FINDETER. Modelo de Costos - Datos de Enero a Mayo de 1997, Primer Informe, Julio de 1997
14. FINDETER. Orientaciones Tecnicas para Preparaci6n de Proyectos
15. FINDETER. Programa de Fortalecimiento de la Gestion Ambiental de FINDETER, Marzo de 1997
16. FINIDETER. Proyecciones de Balance General, 1996-2001, Versi6n Preliminar, 3 de Julio de 1997
17. FINDETER Referencia de Modificaciones Realizadas a la Versi6n Original y al Primer Borrador (versi6n
original revisada) de la Primera y Tercera Parte del Manual de Operaciones de FINDETER, Septiembre de
1997
18. FINDETER. Solicitud de Endeudamiento - Credito Banca Multilateral, Noviembre de 1995 (versi6n 2/29/96)
19. Hawkins, Delafield & Wood. Review and Evaluation of FINDETER's Operation in Colombia
20. Jungito B., Roberto, Ligia Melo B. y Martha Misas A.. Descentralizaci6n y Finanzas Publicas: Colombia



Page 36
1967-1994
21. Nel Ospina Santa Maria, Pedro y Catalina Gutierrez Sourdis. Metodologia para el AnAlsis del Desempeflo
Financiero de las Entidades Territoriales (Informe Final), Septiembre de 1995
(*) 22. Medina M., Y. Gabriel. Gesti6n Ambiental de FINDETER (Informe Final, 3 volumes), Diciembre de 1996
23. Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico. Ciudades y Ciudadania: la politica urbana del Salto Social (documento
sintesis), Julio de 1995
24. Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico y Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n. Plan de Modernizaci6n
Empresarial del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento BAsico (resumen ejecutivo), Abril 25 de 1997
25. Peterson, George (The Urban Institute). Colombia Municipal Development Program: Current Performance and
Future Role of FINDETER, December 1995
26. Valenzuela, Luis Carlos. Realidad del Endeudamiento Territorial en Colombia; Seminario Endeudamiento
Territorial e Impacto en el Modelo de Descentralizaci6n.
Note: (*) documents sent to the Public Information Center (PIC)



Page 37
Annex 9 - A
Colombia
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit     Year                Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 156
Active Loans
CO-PE-6852     IBRD 33360   1991  GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   MUNIC DEVT                    60.00        0.00            0.00           5.05       5.05       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-6854     IBRD 36150   1993  GOV OF COLOMBIA        IA          MUNICIPAL HEALTH SER          50.00        0.00            0.00          37.37      26.70       7.51       S              U
CO-PE-6868    IBRD 36920   1994  GOV OF COLOMBIA                     NATURAL RESOURCE MAN          39.00        0.00            0.00          24.77      10.45       7.75       S              S
CO-PE-6866     IBRD 36830   1994  GOV. OF COLOMBIA                   SECONDARY EDUC                90.00        0.00            0.00          64.77      32.04       0.00       S              U
CO-PE-6889    IBRD 36690   1994  GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA                 PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN          30.00        0.00            0.00          12.09       6.73       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-6880     IBRD 36710   1995  GOVERNMENT OF CLM                  AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO          51.00        0.00            0.00          45.34      19.85       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-6893     IBRD 38270   1995  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA             ENERGY TA                     11.00        0.00            0.00           5.78       3.35       0.00       HS             S
CO-PE-6872     IBRD 4021A   1996  BOGOTA DISTRICT GOVERNMEN          URBAN TRNSPRT                 59.59        0.00            0.00          54.49      19.50       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-39291   IBRD 39730   1996  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA          20.00        0.00            0.00          16.66       9.65       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-6887    IBRD 39550   1996  GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    POWER MARKET DEVELOP         145.00        0.00            0.00         136.19      49.53      18.38       HS             S
CO-PE-6887     IBRD 3954A   1996  GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   POWER MARKET DEVELOP         104.30        0.00            0.00          61.31      49.53      18.38       HS             S
CO-PE-6894     IBRD 39530   1996  GOVERNMENT                         SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL          87.00        0.00            0.00          69.41      38.48       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-6894     IBRD 39520   1996  GOVERNMENT                         SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL          58.00        0.00            0.00          45.65      38.48       0.00        S             s
CO-PE-6884     IBRD 41960   1997  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA             FIN MRKTS DEV TA              15.00        0.00            0.00          14.65       2.25       0.00       S             HS
CO-PE-40102    IBRD 41380   1997  GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   REG.REF.TA                    12.50        0.00            0.00          12.09       1.94       0.00        S             S
CO-PE-6891     IBRD 42430   1998  GOV OF COLOMBIA                    ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION           40.00        0.00            0.00          40.00        .39       0.00       S              S
CO-PE-46112   IBRD 42420   1998  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              PASTO EDUCATION                7.20        0.00            0.00           6.94       -.02       0.00        S             S
Total                                                                                            879.59         0.00            0.00         652.56    313.90       52.02
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  227.01            6,909.26             7,136.27
of which has been repaid:                    7.45            5,410.61            5,418.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  872.14            1,519.16             2,391.30
Amount sold                                        0.00                50.99               50.99
Of which repaid              :                  0.00                50.99               50.99
Total Undisbursed               :                652.56               20.09               672.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory, HU =
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 38
Annex 9 - B
STATEMENT OF IFC's
COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
As of 31-Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1963/90                Coltejer                7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1967170M4184/86/87/88   Enka                   .38    0.00    0.00    2.29       .38    0.00    0.00    2.29
1969/85/88/93/95       CF dcl Valle            0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96      Promigas                15.13    1.13    0.00   47.98    9.33    1.13    0.00   33.49
1981/85/87/89/91/92/94   Leasing Bolivar       5.80     .25    0.00    1.20    5.80      .25    0.00    1.20
1987                  PRODESAL                 0.00     .59    0.00    0.00    0.00      .59    0.00    0.00
1990/92               ODC                     11.55    0.00    0.00   27.11    11.55    0.00    0.00   27.11
1994/95               Corfinansa               4.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    4.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1995                  Corfinsura              13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97               Icollantas              13.00     .46    5.00    0.00   13.00      .46    5.00    0.00
1996                  Proyectos               10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    2.15    0.00    0.00
1997                  Suleasing               30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  110.14   16.29    5.00   78.58   65.34   13.44    5.00   64.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Qnasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



.. . . . . . . . .....                                                    ..   . . . .   .. . .. . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . ...  . . . . . . .   .   . ..    . . . . .. ....
..........                                                                                                             X ,
. .  .                                                                                                                            . . . . . . . .
izi.                                                                                                                                                                                              IC,
co
Em WE
to
Ix
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FL
..............
.     .      .   . . . . .   .. . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .                                                                                            . . . . . . . . . . . .
............
............. ...........
......             .......        ......                                                                                                                                                       C L
00
X X   w               X                    .......
. . .                                                 .    . . . . . . . .
..........
-.-Wx                                                                                                                                                0) W) U (O   .0                                                   NO 0                          (R U W
ci ci                                 C ei  C    C'4 C3 cn
ui ai 04
I
.. . . ..... .
co                                                                                                       0 0
. .. .             . . . . . .
..... ..    . ..    .                                                                                              .......        ...
X     :p q i
r- v .. .    .......
01
g    I    .1 (,j   0  o o                                            C'i
Ad
co
(D ci m                          N O                        c4r-o-  -10.0n
P                 I                                                                                                                                                                  I               .       .     .     .      .       .
. ..... ..... . .....
a.                                                                                                                                                          X.                  X                                                                                                                            .... ..
La
m    C co   -0    0 P,. W)
q: W J"
.4K                                                                   .,.-       ,  ..    :.
ui
q OR cq    it E
4n
............                                                                                                                                                    0) CN C4 0)    V) 0) aa                                     0) M.0  m    (D                     0  0) N
'd .6 o q
. . ............. ....
V,
......... ......
............
...... ...........
.... ........
.. . .. .........
.   . . . .   . . .   . . .                                                                                                                                                                  .  . . .. . ..
. .  . . . . .                   . ..                                                                             .   .     . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .  .
...........
.   .   ..   .....   .                                                                . . . .  . . . .. . .
. . . . .                                                                                                          .  . . . .
. . ........
. . . . ......                                                 ........ . ..                                             ;l          tL               0                                                       0                                                                                                            c:   E                              -0
gig                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'D
E E                                                       E E
Z,                                                                                                                                                             4E                   Z'
E   tvu                                                                                                                                                                                                               75
to
E E  oi
.12
j E
ID
0                                                                                                                                                                                               CL
S O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E                                                         2 E
a. o (D                             0 1-
ozz  .                          "S  .  .   , i m 2 5   O 2 U-



Page 40
Annex 10
Colombia at a Glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995    1996
Domestic pHices                                                                   Intlabon (%)
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                             22.9    24.0        20.9    21.6     3       O_
Implicit GDP deflator                       22.9    24.9       20.8     21.2                  z                        *
Government linance                                                                o        *
(% of GDF)                                                                        o 0                
Current revenue                               ..    20.3        30.4    31.5             91   92   93   94   95   9S
Current budget balance                        ..      4.3        6.9     8.1              -     GDP det    0   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -4.6        -1.4     -2.9
TRADE
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   3,650    10,201   10,630       1sooo
Coffee                                       ..   1,702      1,832    1,577
Petroleum                                    ..       ..    2.164    2,889
Manufactures                                 ..       ..    5,160    4,879      10.000
Total imports (cif                                            12,921   12,755
Food                                                                              DO. . .. 900 H  OI
Fuel and energy                               .     466        264      240
Capital goods                                ..   1,165      4,776    4,237          ___
Export pnce index (1987=100)                  ..       ..       145      164            90  91  92  03  94  9f  99
Import pceindex(1987=100)                     ..       ..       267      260                  DExpots   mlrmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..       ..        54       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP rato t%)
Exportsofgoodsandseruces                   2,105    4,642    13,771   14,545      s
Importsofgoodsandservices                  2,007    4,989    16,211   16,541
Resource balance                              98     -347    -2,439   -1,997
Net income                                  -318   -1,710    -2,750   -3,401
Net current transfers                         ..    455         797      614         n          n
Current account balance,                                                            o      Si   92
before official capital transfers            ..   1,602      4,393   -4,784    -3
Financing items (net)                          ,    1,371      4,715    6,356
Changes in net reserves                      111      231      -322   -1,572    .s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)          633    2,202      8,458   10,041
Conversion rate (IocalAJSS)                 30.9    1423       944.5  1,036.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996    r
(millions USS)                                                                    Composlffon ottotal debt 1996 (mll. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3.758   14,246    25,047   29,069                          A
IBRD                                       634    2,399     2,548    2,177                         21A7I
IDA                                         23       18        11       10               G
Total debt service                           314    1,980      4,694    6,443                                2787
IBRD                                        78      318       604      520                                    E
IDA                                          1        0         1        1                                   1738
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             18       20        73
Official creditors                         111      938      -472    1,531
Prvate creditors                           216      392      1,109    1,592
Foreign direct investment                   37    1,023      2.501    3,253
Portfolio equity                             0        0       131      -21
Portfolio equity  16473
World Bank program
Commitments                                 88      490       207      334      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Dsbursements                               106      590       238      152      B-IDA     D-Other multllateral  F- Pdvate
Principal repayments                        34      165       415      351      C-IMF                       G-Short-term
Netflows                                    71      424      -177    -199   1                                           1
Interest payments                           45      153       191      170
Net transfers                               27      271      -368    -369
Development Economics                                                                                              8/28197



IBRD 18370R1
-I4ONOORA$  ~      ~         BAZLQtC
-S.--,  ((isv-/   h.-t   hSi.A
-h b .. d..OLVIA *1.
7~~~~~ - 5,000,000 persons                                                                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaisMsS. ,  h  Wd
%                                                                                                               50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ok,-e  h  .e,,te   1sod5    200end,.Sbs,   250th
2,OOQOOO  3,                                                                                                   KIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-nhs,s,j  ot.p~~  T,5OMETEoskRS-p  ,'isgot
1,00Q000  1,~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~tefgl  M  f 5~ts-tt                                                 ~         s,.ts,o~
ME TAR
RivAersUA NI
Department Boundaries ~ ~ ~          ~            ~           ~           ~          ~         ~          >
International Boundciries~~~~~0
78.              741                                                                                                        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
MILES99



