Report No. PIC631
Project Name                     Colombia-Second Municipal r() N
Development Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Urban Development
Project ID                       COPA6861
Borrower                         Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial
(FINDETER)
Implementing                     FINDETER
Agency                           address: Calle 72, No. 10-07, Piso 4
Santafe de Bogota, DC
contact: Antonio Gomez Merlano, President
phone:     (57-1) 210-1377
fax: (57-1) 210-1106
Date PID Prepared                January 1996
Projected Appraisal Date         June 16, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 16, 1997
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.   Colombia's approximately 1,050 municipalities show great diversity
in their size, population, geographical characteristics, resource
endowment and future decentralization potential. Over the past decade,
significant political, socio-economic and other changes have occurred
within which decentralization has figured prominently. While
implementation of constitutionally-mandated decentralization policies is
proceeding relatively well in such larger municipalities as Bogota,
Valle de Cauca and Pereira, the heterogeneous nature of the
municipalities, their weak financial, technical and administrative base,
the poor state of their infrastructure and other assets and the diverse
functions, responsibilities and roles which they have to assume under
decentralization, have highlighted several problem areas. In general,
while the smaller ones face a wide range of difficulties trying to meet
their obligations in an autonomous and self-sustaining manner, most
municipalities suffer from high dependency upon central government
transfers; overstaffing, with low-skilled, poorly-paid people; frequent
turnover of key technical staff and deteriorating, deficient or non-
existent infrastructure facilities, and they are not yet equipped to
fully assume the new role envisaged for them.
2.   Because of their weak institutional, administrative and legal
framework, municipalities have traditionally had great difficulty
obtaining financial resources for their capital and recurrent
expenditures. In an era when most appeared either unable or unwilling to
raise such funds locally, and access to commercial bank loans was not
feasible both because of their precarious condition and the low level of
interest of commercial banks to lend to municipalities, the national
government had to assume this role. Early GOC efforts to establish
access of municipalities to the banking system began as long ago as 1975



with the creation of a special municipal credit window (FFDU) in the
national mortgage bank (BCH). As the focus upon decentralization
increased the GOC eliminated FFDU in 1990 and created FINDETER as an
autonomous financial institution (86% GOC and 14% regional government
ownership), to assist state and local agencies in assuming their new
role. Additionally, in an attempt to rationalize its own funding, set
priorities and help promote 'social investments' in basic infrastructure
works, the GOC took steps to use FINDETER to administer also some of its
own already established programs, including two cofinancing funds.
3.   FINDETER has now evolved into a credible financial institution and
has been a key player in several recent decentralization initiatives,
especially benefiting medium and small municipalities. FINDETER does not
function as a first tier institution, but works in partnership with
commercial banks, municipalities and local entities under clearly-
defined operating procedures covering such areas as municipal
creditworthiness; criteria for sub-project selection, evaluation and
finance; implementation and follow-up actions. Commercial banks
providing loans to borrowers under FINDETER's program can obtain
refinancing of up to 85% of the loans they make. FINDETER's interest
rate and fee structure provides it with a positive return; however,
while they are above the inflation rate, FINDETER uses the cost of funds
as the reference point rather than charging market rates.
4.   In comparison with other countries, the Colombian system is unique
insofar as it does not provide loans directly but refinances these
through commercial banks which are fully responsible for their
administration. Since its creation, FINDETER has made about 1,100 loans
for a total of approximately $1.0 billion to about 500 subnational
entities through twenty-five intermediary banks. Among the municipal
works financed are those for expansion and rehabilitation of water and
sewerage systems, telephone services, streets, schools, markets, parks
in addition to municipal administration strengthening programs. It has
reached about 60% of the country's municipalities, many of them with
populations under 10,000. In line with recent laws aimed at making
water and sewerage systems more autonomous and self supporting, FINDETER
has also recently began financing privatization initiatives, the most
prominent one being the operation and maintenance of the Cartagena water
system by AGBAR of Spain (under the $150 million loan'2961-CO'for a
water and sewerage sector project).
5.   FINDETER also is currently implementing a municipal development
project with Bank ($60 M) and IDB ($44 M) financing. The latter project
also has technical assistance and cadastre improvement components to
enable borrowers to increase their operational efficiency and become
more financially independent. It is progressing well and all of the
funds have now been committed with disbursements expected to be fully
completed before the originally-scheduled closing date of December,
1997. On several occasions during 1995, and most recently at the annual
meetings in October, the Government has expressed keen interest in a
second Bank/IDB financed municipal development operation.
6.   FINDETER has generally achieved much of what the GOC initially
envisioned for it over the past five years and most borrowers have been
satisfied with the impact its funding has had upon their municipal
-2 -



operations. Others see it as being too bureaucratic and at times non-
responsive to their needs. Its dual role (as a refinancing entity with
its own resources as well as a cofinancing agent of the GOC) (see 1/)
has also caused some confusion among clients which tends to undermine
the objectives of accountability and financial discipline among
borrowing municipalities. Finally, while FINDETER has had sound
technical staff and well-established and transparent operational
systems, it is not immune to political interference in its operations.
Partly in response to some of these concerns, FINDETER has decentralized
many of its functions and granted greater autonomy to its regional
offices and it has revised its operational manual to make it more
flexible while still maintaining its basic objectives.
7.   There remain some fundamental questions involving the future role
of FINDETER which still need to be addressed. FINDETER remains highly
dependent upon external and GOC concessionary funding. While the long-
term goal is to have municipalities borrow on commercial terms when they
seek loans, this is not currently feasible, given present macro-economic
conditions in Colombia and the precarious creditworthiness of most
municipalities. The Bank's 1995 sector report on local government
capacity (see 2/) highlights several areas where FINDETER's assistance,
along with technical assistance and greater community participation, are
required to develop within municipalities the capacity to better respond
to the needs of local communities. While FINDETER's prominence in sub-
national investment has declined relatively as a result of a stronger
participation of private banks in the last few years, its continued
presence as a source of funding for municipal investments is still
needed. Nevertheless, because of the changes in the environment in which
FINDETER operates, its evolving role has to be more clearly defined and
a 'transition' plan which also should be developed. Over the next 4-5
years, FINDETER should: (a) continue to refinance loans (as a bank of
last resort) which assist municipalities to address their key
infrastructure needs; (b) work with municipalities and the Central Bank
to identify obstacles to market sources of finance and develop a program
under which municipal entities are 'graduated' to the normal banking
system; (c) develop its own internal capacity to promote private sector
involvement in municipal infrastructure investment; and (d) conduct a
study to determine FINDETER's future role (e.g. privatized lender,
absorption by Departments or Regions, guarantor for privatization
initiatives, etc.).
THE PROJECT
8.   Project Origin. The GOC requested (paragraph 5) that the Bank and
IDB each consider a follow-up loan to FINDETER to provide continued
support for the GOC decentralization program and its drive for greater
efficiency, and to assist in defining the future role of FINDETER within
a decentralized system.
9.   Project Objective and Description. The project would: (i)
consolidate and expand the municipal credit market by continuing to
assist FINDETER in its financing of municipal infrastructure in support
of the Government's decentralization policy and its national development
plan (Salto Social); (ii) strengthen the financial capacity of the
municipalities, especially the relatively larger ones, so that they
- 3-



could complement their own resources by commercial borrowing; and (iii)
finance technical assistance to help FINDETER develop an overall
strategy for its transformation to meet evolving demands generated by
GOC's intention to accelerate its decentralization and privatization
efforts. The project would have three components comprising: Part A,
investment and preinvestment subprojects involving the construction and
rehabilitation of various municipal infrastructure works; Part B,
technical assistance to help municipalities and local government
institutions become more autonomous and to strengthen their
administrative and financial management capacity to provide public
services in partnership with the private sector, and; and Part C,
technical assistance to FINDETER to: (i) conduct studies on its future
role, (ii) develop plans for transforming it in line with the findings
and recommendations of such studies, and (iii) promote the efficient
delivery of municipal services through such mechanisms as civil society
involvement and private sector participation.
10. Project Cost and Financing. The estimated total project cost is
about $0 million with the Bank and IDB each providing about $75 million,
and FINDETER, commercial banks and beneficiaries financing the remaining
$100 million. Project preparation is being supported by a Japanese PHRD
Grant of about $0.8 million equivalent.
11. Project Implementation. FINDETER as borrower, would be responsible
for project implementation. As the beneficiary of Component C of the
Project, FINDETER would also be responsible for its execution (The C(i)
study will be overseen by a special committee with representatives both
from government and the private sector to avoid conflict of interest
issues). Municipal governments and affiliated entities, including
private or mixed-capital companies operating services on behalf of
municipal governments, would be eligible beneficiaries under Parts A and
B of the Project, retaining full responsibility for subproject
execution. FINDETER's guidelines would be used to appraise, approve and
supervise subloans made in connection with eligible investment,
preinvestment, and technical assistance subprojects. Subloans would be
made through eligible financial intermediaries by refinancing up to 85
percent of a credit extended to an eligible beneficiary for financing up
to 100 percent of an eligible subproject. Eligibility criteria for both
beneficiary entities and investments would be established in Credit
Regulations statement (Reglamento de Credito) which would apply to all
FINDETER lending regardless of the origin of funds. As with the ongoing
loan, FINDETER would refinance credits at a variable interest rate
pegged to the market deposit rate (DTF) and financial intermediaries
would assume the credit risk of subloan operations and charge a spread
determined competitively.
12. Project Sustainability. To the extent that project sustainability
will depend largely on continued and improved municipal
creditworthiness, the project will promote the objective of sound
municipal financial management and assist municipalities in
strengthening their capacity to manage their own sources of revenue as
well as external financing, in addition to greater private sector
involvement.
13. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. With
- 4 -



most of the works financed under the ongoing project either are just
being completed or are underway, it is not easy to draw definitive
conclusions on the lessons learned. Nevertheless, based upon indicative
data, the overall impact of the project has been positive for the
municipalities which received subloans and technical assistance.
FINDETER's procedure for subproject evaluation and its insistence on
minimum borrower performance criteria have now become standard
procedures in many municipalities, irrespective of financing source.
Additionally, the TA component has provided training to staff of about
700 municipalities in several areas. However, initial indications are
that because this was more of a supply-driven process, the impact being
less than it would have been if municipalities had been given greater
flexibility to determine their TA needs and to seek loans for addressing
them. This approach will be used in the new operation.
14. Environmental Aspects. Infrastructure deficiencies have imposed a
heavy burden on the urban environment with serious public health and
productivity implications. The project would ameliorate such problems
by financing the construction and rehabilitation of various
infrastructure in eligible municipalities. At the national level, the
Government of Colombia has established regional entities (CARS), which
have responsibility for ensuring compliace with environmental laws.
Selection criteria for investment financing would ensure that
subprojects meet such environmental standards and reflect the
government's sector policies.
15. Program Objective Categories. The project's principal contribution
is toward environmentally sustainable development, by financing the
construction and rehabilitation of public infrastructure in
participating municipalities. The project would also contribute to
poverty reduction, since the poor stand to benefit more from such
municipal infrastructure investments. It would also promote private
sector participation in the provision of urban infrastructure services.
16. Poverty Category. This project will not be included in the Program
of Targeted Interventions.
1/ Reference paper on Colombia National Cofinancing System transmitted
to GOC on December 1, 1995.
2/ Colombia, Local Government Capacity: Beyond Technical Assistance
(Report No. 14085-CO of July 7, 1995).
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



