Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER 029375
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Second Municipal Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
and
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A.
Dated November 12, 1996
TRUST FUND NUMBER 029375
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1996, among  REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Page  2
Recipient), the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN 
(Japan); and FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A. (FINDETER).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has agreed to appoint FINDETER as the Recipient's agent, 
and FINDETER has agreed to become the agent of the Recipient for purposes of administering 
and managing, on behalf of the Recipient, respectively, the use of the proceeds of the Grant and 
the carrying out of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
Page  3
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of 
the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."; and
(viii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Recipient, through 
FINDETER, shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services  supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
Page  4
the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"FINDETER Statutes" means the Recipient's Law No. 57 of 1989 and the 
By-laws of FINDETER (Estatuto
de
Funcionamiento
y
Operación
)
approved by the Borrower's 
Decrees No. 789 of April 17, 1990 and No. 178 of May 30, 1994.
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
(c)
"Territorial Entity" means, for purposes of this Agreement: (i) a Department 
(Departamento)
i.e. a political subdivision of the Recipient; (ii) a Municipality (Municipio)
i.e. 
another political subdivision of the Recipient with a geographical area that is within the 
boundaries of a given Department; (iii) a District (Distrito)
i.e. another political subdivision of 
the Recipient provided for in Article 319 of Chapter 3 and in Chapter 4, both of Title IX of the 
Recipient's Constitution; or (iv) a Metropolitan Area (Area Metropolitana)
i.e. another political 
subdivision of the Borrower established pursuant to the provisions of the Recipient's Law No. 
128 of February 23, 1994.
(d)
"Yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of sixty seven 
million two hundred thousand yen (¥67,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, through its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and for 
the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Banco
de
la
República
to be titled Treasury/FINDETER, and to be operated by FINDETER on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Recipient and the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Page  5
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient and 
FINDETER of such later date.
Section 2.04
  The President of FINDETER, or any other person or persons that such 
President shall designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Recipient under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) FINDETER shall carry out the Project on behalf of the Recipient with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
The Recipient shall make available to FINDETER the proceeds of the Grant, 
free from interest or other charges thereon and promptly as needed for purposes of carrying out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient and FINDETER shall maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, respectively, the 
Recipient's operations in respect of the Project, if any, and the operations, resources and 
expenditures of FINDETER in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient and FINDETER shall:
(i)
have the respective records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, FINDETER shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
Page  6
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
FINDETER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement; and
(b)
the FINDETER Statutes or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, repealed, waived or abrogated in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Administrator, would affect materially and adversely, the performance by FINDETER of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Recipient, is designated  
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions, 
Page  7
and the President of FINDETER is designated as representative of FINDETER for the purposes 
of the provisions of this Agreement which relate to FINDETER's activities under the Project.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Palacio de los Ministerios
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
4473
For FINDETER:
Calle 19 No. 21-20, Piso 6
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); and
  Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Ernesto Samper Pizano
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A.
By /s/ Antonio Gomez Merlano
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Yen)
(to be Financed)
(1)
Consultant services
35,000,000
100%
for Part A.1 of the
Project
(2)
Consultant services for
10,000,000
100%
Parts A.2 and A.3 of
the Project
(3)
Consultant services for
22,200,000
100%
Part B of the Project
Page  9
TOTAL
67,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of ¥6,720,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1996.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for the employment of consulting firms and 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 
equivalent, respectively, which are not subject to prior review pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Execution of a technical assistance program aimed at: (i) assisting FINDETER in 
preparatory activities for determining a number of projects for urban infrastructure works in 
different sectors to be prepared by Territorial Entities or entities related thereto, and in respect of 
which projects FINDETER could provide financial assistance; and (ii) helping FINDETER to 
focus upon the role it should play in the urban infrastructure sector within its jurisdiction, given 
the accelerating pace of the efforts to decentralize or privatize, as the case may be, certain of the 
Recipient's functions; such program to consist of the following Parts:
Part A
:
Infrastructure Investments
1.
 Provision of technical assistance, through FINDETER, to about 30 selected Territorial 
Entities, or other entities related thereto, as agreed from time to time between the Administrator 
and FINDETER, which technical assistance could be of help to such Entities (or other entities, if 
any) for: (a) preparing adequate terms of reference for feasibility studies and engineering design 
for projects that could be financed by FINDETER; (b) supervising the execution of such studies 
or designs; and (c) preparing  project packages to be presented to FINDETER with a financing 
request which could meet FINDETER's Reglamento
de
crédito
 (Credit regulations).
2.
Assessment of the funding requirements for both pre-investment and investment 
financing of infrastructure works, by sector, on the basis of which FINDETER will be able to 
develop business plans in order to allocate efficiently to projects within its jurisdiction the 
resources to which FINDETER will have access.
3.
Execution of a study on few relevant cases of private sector participation in urban 
infrastructure works, preferably for the provision of domiciliary services or other services (other 
than financial or insurance services) currently provided under the sponsorship of Territorial 
Entities. The study will have the objective of drawing practical lessons to be applied in future 
projects which could be financed by multilateral financial institutions of which the Recipient is a 
member, if and when private sector participation is envisaged; furthermore, the said study will 
analyze different options for private sector participation, both in the carrying out of works for, 
and in the management of, the provision of the aforesaid services, such as concession 
Page  10
arrangements, management agreements, joint ventures or other forms of association between 
public and private interests.
Part B
:
FINDETER's Institutional Development
1.
Execution of a study of the Territorial Entities credit market and the role FINDETER 
currently plays in it, including an assessment of the existing and potential financial sources and 
instruments for Territorial Entity financing, such as bonds, bank credit and co-financing 
schemes. The study will put particular attention to the financial and legal aspects involved, and 
make recommendations on how to have access to such financial sources within the existing legal 
framework.
2.
Development of a strategic plan for FINDETER including a prospective view on 
FINDETER's goals and objectives and institutional role, both in the short and medium-term.
SCHEDULE 3
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been 
agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: 
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Administrator; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the 
Page  11
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $75,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient through FINDETER 
shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient through 
FINDETER shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient through 
FINDETER shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
through FINDETER shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
Page  12
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, directly or 
through FINDETER, within the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
