Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 18708
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Cr. 2060-KE)
December 17, 1998
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (KSh)
US$1.00 = 21.78 KSh Jan. 1990
US$1.00 = 24.35 KSh Jan. 1991
US$1.00 = 28.12 KSh Jan. 1992
US$1.00 = 36.13 KSh Jan. 1993
US$1.00 = 67.33 KSh Jan. 1994
US$1.00 = 44.48 KSh Jan. 1995
US$1.00 = 56.32 KSh Jan. 1996
US$1.00 = 54.78 KSh Jan. 1997
US$1.00 = 61.39 KSh Jan. 1998
US$1.00 = 60.75 KSh Jun. 1998
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       African Development Bank
AfDF       African Development Fund
EIB        European Investment Bank
FY         Fiscal Year
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (The Bank)
IDA        International Development Association
MWD        Ministry of Water Development
NCC        Nairobi City Commission
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OECF       Overseas Economic and Cooperation Fund of Japan
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
ROK        Republic of Kenya
RWS        Rural Water Supply
UfW        Unaccounted for Water
UWS        Urban Water Supply
WD         Water Department of the Ministry of Water Development
WSD        Water and Sewerage Department of the Nairobi City Commission
Vice President         Callisto E. Madavo
Director               Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager         Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Manager           Alain R. Locussol



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 2060-KE]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .............................................................                                                                    i.
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................................                                                        ii
PART I - PROJECT' REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                                  ...................................I
A.   Project Identity .............................................................                                           I
B.   Background .............................................................                                                 1.
C.   Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ..............................................................2
D.   Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................................4
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................6
F.    Project Sustainability ..............................................................7
G.   IDA  Performance ..............................................................8
H.   Borrower Performance ..............................................................8
1.    Assessment of Outcome ..............................................................8
J.   Future Operations ............................................9
K.  Key Lessons Learned ..........................................9
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES .........................................                                                                 1.1
Table 1 - Suimmary of Assessments .........................................                                                 1.1
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................................                                              12
Table 3 - Project Timetable .........................................                                                       12
Table 4 - Credit Disbursements .........................................                                                    L3
Table 5 - Key Indicators for Project Implementation .........................................                               14
Table 6 - Key Indicators for Project Operations .........................................                                   16
Table 7-  Studies Included in Project .........................................                                             17
Table 8A - Project Costs .........................................                                                          18
Table 8B  - Review  and Analysis of the 10 Largest Civil Works/Goods Contracts ............... J9
Table 8C - Project Financing .........................................                                                     20
Table 9 - Economic Rate of Return .........................................                                                 21
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants .........................................                                              23
Table  11 - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................................                          25
Table  12 - Estimated Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................26
Table 13 - Bank Resources: Missions .27
ANNEXES
A.         Mission's aide-memoire
B.         Borrower's contribution to the ICR
Map - IBRD No. 21208
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oaly in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
tWorld Bank authorization.-.



i
KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 2060-KE]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Nairobi Water Supply Project,
Republic of Kenya for which a Credit 2060-KE, in the amount of SDR 49.1 million (US$ million 64.8
equivalent) was approved on July 25, 1989, the Development Credit Agreement was signed on August 15,
1989, and the Credit was made effective on March 15, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998 two years after the scheduled closing date of June 30, 1996. At
the time this Implementation Completion Report was issued, it was not possible to formally close the
Credit as there was still a balance in the Special Account that needed to be documented by the Borrower.
Co-financing for the Project was provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and the Overseas Economic and Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Alain R. Locussol, Principal Water and Sanitation Specialist AFTU 1,
and Tejbir Singh Phool, Consultant; it was reviewed by Messrs. Jeffrey Racki, Manager AFTU I and
Harold E. Wackman, Director AFCO5.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in conjunction with IDA's final supervision/completion mission of
June 1998. The Bonrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing pertinent information
and commenting on the draft ICR. The Borrower also prepared a separate evaluation of the Project's
preparation and execution, that is attached to the ICR.



ii
KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 2060-KE]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    In the late 1980's, Nairobi, the capital of the Republic of Kenya (ROK) housed approximately 1.3
million people and experienced a population growth rate of 7% per annum; about 30% of the city had no
access to a satisfactory water service and about 40% to a sanitation service. In 1998, Nairobi's population
was estimated at about 2.1 million. The water supply and sanitation system, owned and operated by the
Nairobi City Commission (NCC), has always received high Government priority because Nairobi is an
important center of activity and tourism. The Town Clerk, the NCC chief executive, supervises seven
departments, including the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD); the latter is headed by a General
Manager. The Bank has been involved in the urban water supply sector since the 1970's and has financed
three water projects aimed at improving the service in Nairobi. The key lesson learned from these projects
was the need for a strong autonomous organization, capable of making sound economic decisions. Also,
in the late 1980's, ROK was again experiencing deteriorating fiscal and monetary conditions, that
resulted in pressure on the national budget.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    Objectives. The Project's main objectives were to: augment Nairobi's water supply; improve
basic needs provision and health conditions of the urban poor; assist in maintaining the city's sanitation
standards, decrease pollution in the Nairobi river; and improve operational and financial efficiency of the
WSD. In view of the impending shortcomings of the water supply and sanitation service, the main
objectives were appropriate. In framing the institutional objectives, IDA and the Govemment initially
agreed on the need to convert the WSD into an autonomous organization, but ultimately articulated a
much weaker objective of strengthening only portions of the existing entity. They obviously missed a
strategic opportunity to make significant institutional progress.
3.    Components. The Project components included the construction of an impoundment dam and
transmission mains, the extension of the water treatment capacity, the (limited) extension of the
distribution system, the enhancement of the waste water treatment capacity, and the provision of technical
assistance and training for selected departments of the WSD. The design of the physical components was
adequate, and the dimensioning of the works consistent with the demand forecast made at appraisal. The
water production and distribution programs were however somewhat unbalanced. There was also a
discrepancy between the objective of improving the service to lower income groups and a design that
included no secondary or tertiary water distribution pipes, sewers, connections or standposts in its original
description. This was partly corrected after most components of the original Project description were
completed, by the introduction of a limited pilot water distribution component in the slum area of Kibera,
home to about half a million people. The institutional objective was supported only by a limited technical
assistance and training program.



ini
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Objectives. The Project has achieved its objective of increasing the water
production capacity, but at closing about 50% of the population still had no direct access to piiped water
despite a significant increase of the number of connections. The Project has only partially achieved its
objective of increasing the waste water treatment capacity, since construction was not completed at
closing. At closing, the full impact of the extension of the waste water treatment plant could not be
realized because a significant portion of the sewage generated in the city did not reach it; effluent quality
was however according to standards. The Project has only marginally achieved its objective of improving
the water supply and sanitation service to low income communities, construction under the Kibera pilot
scheme being completed only six months after closing. The Project has failed completely to improve the
WSD operational and financial efficiency.
5.    Project Cost. The final construction cost was US$213 million equivalent against the appraised
US$217 million equivalent. The difference is accounted for partly by savings related to currency
devaluation and partly because components costing approximately US$1.5 million were not yet
completed.
6.    Project Implementation. The closing date of the Project was extended twice to June 30, 1998
from June 30, 1996. Disbursement was suspended three times, because of constant disagreement on the
balance between the "General Account" of the NCC and the "Water Account" maintained by the WSD;
these accounts were in fact managed as only one account, in violation of Credit covenants. At closing,
disbursement had been suspended for six months; the audited balance between the two accounts was made
available five months after closing. Some savings were used to finance additional components to
overcome shortcoming of the original design.
7.    Factors Affecting the Project - Outside of Government Control. The performance of financing
agencies, contractors and consultants with regards to implementation of construction activities of the
original Project description was generally satisfactory.
8.    Factors Affecting the Project - Subject to Government Control. The Project suffered constantly
from the decision made not to address the major institutional shortcomings identified at appraisal. At
closing, most WSD problems still had their roots, as already mentioned in the Staff Appraisal Report, in
the difficulty to: access cash generated from operations; attract and/or retain competent staff by proposing
a competitive compensation package; simplify a complex decision making process involving the
Ministries of Local Authorities and of Water Resources and the NCC; and procure goods and services
according to industry standards. The nominal water tariff was increased, but in 1998 the real tariff was
below the 1989 level, and the "rate of return" covenant was not complied with. Counterpart funding was
not a major issue, although it was currently unclear how WSD would fund the remaining construction
activities.
9.    Factors Affecting the Project - Subject to the Control of the ImplementingAgency. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the WSD implemented the major physical components of the P'roject
satisfactorily. The significant increase of the value of most major contracts, which ended up costing more
than 170% their value at award, required a detailed review by IDA. This increase is difficult to explain
taking into account that the Project was thoroughly prepared under an earlier Engineering Credit, and that
about 16% of the construction costs were devoted to construction supervision, up from the 6% budgeted at
appraisal. Also, while the Project was unable to overhaul the computerized billing system, the WSD
shares the responsibility in the deterioration of its commercial operations. While Unaccounted for Water



iv
(UfW) improved from about 45% to 28% under the preceding project, it may have deteriorated again to
about 50% in 1998.
10.   The Project is unlikely to be sustainable. The Government is still reluctant to address the
fundamental issue of the managerial and financial autonomy of the WSD, although it has recently shown
interest in "commercializing" municipal water companies. This will continue to constrain the internal
resource generation capacity, and as a result, the WSD's capacity to fund maintenance activities; the WSD
track record with funding maintenance is not encouraging. Major deficiencies in the commercial
management, as evidenced by accounts receivable equivalent to 770 days of billing, still remain to be
addressed, and further tariff increases are unlikely to be accepted by consumers unless there is a
perception that the service is significantly improved.
11.   Overall IDA pierformance was unsatisfactory, although it was satisfactory during identification,
when several desirable steps to support the establishment of an autonomous WSD were taken.
Performance during preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory. Neither were objectives fully consistent
with issues identified, nor were components fully consistent with the objectives articulated. While key
issues were of institutional nature, corresponding components were of managerial nature only; further,
even the design of the managerial components proved inadequate. Performance during supervision was
also unsatisfactory, with strong emphasis placed on construction activities, and not enough on commercial
and financial performance of the WSD. While suspension of disbursement resulted in partial compliance
with covenants, it adversely affected Project implementation and did not provide proper answers to major
institutional problems sidelined at appraisal.
12.   Overall, the Borrower performance was unsatisfactory, although the performance of the PIU
during implementation was satisfactory to the extent that all physical components of the original Project
description were implemented according to standards, within budget and with few delays. The
Government was never committed to addressing the major shortcoming of the institutional set-up, and the
NCC defaulted on several covenants. At closing, Nairobi, after three Bank-supported projects, was still
served by a WSD unable to produce reliable data on its operations, in an alanning financial situation, and
unable to fund maintenance.
13.   The Project outcome is unsatisfactory, although all physical components of the original
description were implemented generally in a satisfactory manner. A strategic opportunity to make
significant institutional gains was obviously lost. Further, consumers could not reap the full benefits of
the Project because water production and waste water treatment capacities built were not balanced by
corresponding water distribution and waste water collection capacities. Also, at closing, the Project had
not been able to make a significant difference in the provision of the water supply service to lower income
communities. The Project has failed to improve the WSD commercial and financial performance. A new
computerized billing system is unlikely to be the answer to the problem if issues of autonomy of the WSD
and the incentive framework it would operate in are not addressed.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
14.   The Project demonstrated the importance of proper sequencing of institutional development and
major investments. This requires the political will at the highest level of decision making to address
fundamental issues. At: closing, several important challenges remain. These include: changing the
institutional framework the WSD operates in; developing alternative service standards and management
arrangements to provide a reliable and affordable service to lower income communities; improving
collection of waste water; and ensuring that revenues generated from water supply and waste water



v
operations are exclusively used to finance the maintenance and development of facilities in addition to
their operating costs. Main lessons are:
*  IDA should not finance projects unless the Borrower is committed to implementing policy and
institutional reforms that would guarantee their sustainability;
*  IDA should insist on the creation of autonomous water utility companies prior to financing major
development projects;
*  IDA should encourage Borrowers to seek private sector participation options, such as management,
lease or concession contracts to improve overall technical, commercial and financial performance of
the water supply and sanitation service;
*  IDA must carefully design financial covenants, watch performance indicators agreed upon during
negotiations, and act decisively soon after evidence of violation appears; and
*  water supply and sanitation projects must be designed to achieve a balance between production and
distribution capacities, and waste water treatment and collection capacities so that project benefits
reach the intended beneficiaries.



I
KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 2060-KE]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name               :       Third Nairobi Water Supply Project
Credit Number              2060-KE
RVP Unit          :        AFRICA Region
Country           :        Kenya
Sector            :        Water Supply
B.    Background
1.    The Republic of Kenya (ROK) stretches inland from the Indian Ocean to Lake Victoria and
covers 583,000 km2 straddling the equator. In the late 1980's, the ROK had a population of 21 million
growing at 3.8% annually, one of the fastest rate in the world. Nairobi, the capital city, housed
approximately 1.3 million and experienced a higher annual growth rate of 7%; in 1998 Nairobi's
population was estimated at 2.1 million. After receiving significant international aid that included an
IMF-led readjustment package in the early 1980's, the ROK was again experiencing deteriorating fiscal
and monetary condit:ions that resulted in pressure on the national budget and on government bodies.
2.    In the late 1980's, about 70% of the city was served by house connections; about 60% had access
to the public sewerage system and another 20% relied on septic tanks. But, a large proportion of the
population received an unsatisfactory water and sanitation service, and each year, the rapid urban
population growth rate added significantly to the large numbers of un-served individuals. Nairobi relies
mostly on surface water from nearby perennial rivers, where adequate water quantities are available;
ground water resources are very limited and contain high levels of fluoride.
3.    The Water Suapply and Sewerage systems are owned and operated by the Nairobi City
Commission (NCC), and receives high Government priority because the capital city is a major center of
activity and tourism. The Town Clerk, the NCC chief executive, supervises seven departments including
the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD). The WSD is headed by a General Manager.
4.    The Bank Group has been involved in the urban water sector since 1970's, financing five water
projects of which three were aimed at improving the service in Nairobi. The Nairobi Water Supply
Project (Loan 714-KE implemented during 1972-76) represented the first phase of a long-range program
to develop the local river system to meet Nairobi's water supply requirements. The Second Nairobi Water
Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE implemented during 1978-84) provided extensions to meet water needs
supply up to 1987-88. The Third Nairobi Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit 1566-KE
implemented during 1988-1991) assisted in the preparation of the next extension phase (Credit 2060-KE).
The key lesson learned from these projects was the need for a strong autonomous organization capable of
making sound economic decisions within an established policy framework acceptable to the Govemment.



2
C.    Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.    Project Objectives. The Project's main objectives (SAR No 7500-KE) were to:
*  augment and secure the water supply to Nairobi through the expansion of source works to meet
demand up to year 2003/2005;
*  improve basic needs provision and health conditions of the urban poor by expanding the coverage
of the piped water supply to low income groups;
* assist in maintaining sanitation standards in the city;
* decrease pollution in the recipient river; and
* improve operational and financial efficiency of the WSD.
6.     Project Components. The following components would achieve these objectives:
*  extension of the water supply system
*  source works including the construction of: (a) a 63 m high dam on the Thika river with an
impounding capacity of 70 million m3; (b) access roads; (c) raw water intakes; and (d)
transmission tunnels;
*  extension of the water supply system: (a) extension of the capacity of the Ngethu water
treatment plant from 180,000 m3/d to 460,000 m3/d; (b) 36 km of transmission main with a
diameter of 1.3 and 1.4 m; (c) three treated water reservoirs with a total capacity of 46,000
m3; (d) two pumping stations; (e) 47 km of distribution pipes diameter of 0.2 to 1.0 m.; (f)
instrumentation; and (g) offices and housing;
*  rehabilitation and extension of the sewage treatment plant to a total capacity of 90,000 m3/d dry
weather flow and construction of staff housing, offices and amenities;
* water supply and waste water disposal in low income residential areas;
* engineering and construction supervision for the above works and for the preparation of a
Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan; and
technical assistance and training for the WSD, including provision of management and staff
support, implementation of training program, implementation of a self accounting system, and
implementation of an environmental action plan.
7.    Additional Components. During Project implementation and after most of the original
components were completed, IDA agreed to allow cost savings of US$9.0 million to be used for additional
components as follows: (a) water distribution in the low income communities of Kibera and Kasarani; (b)
desludging of the Dandora waste stabilization ponds; (c) upgrading of the Kabete pumping station (d)
additional upgrading of the Gigiri pumping station; (e) supply of sewer cleaning equipment; (f)
computerization of the billing system; and (g) additional construction supervision.
8.    Project Cost, Financing Plan, and Implementation Timetable. At appraisal, total Project cost
was estimated at US$217.0 million equivalent, of which US$124.0 million represented foreign exchange
requirements: (a) the African Development Bank/Fund (AfDB) approved US$35.0 million for the Thika
dam; (b) the European Investment Bank (EIB), US$19.0 million for raw water intakes and tunnels; (c) the
OECF of Japan, US$40.0 million for treated water transmission lines; (d) IDA, US$65.0 million for
treatment plant, distribution, sewage treatment plant, engineering and construction supervision, and
technical assistance to the WSD; (e) the NCC agreed to provide US$55.0 million for counterpart financing
on all components; and (f) the Govermment of Kenya (GOK) agreed to provide US$3.0 million for land
acquisition. The Project was to be implemented between 1990 and 1994, and its initial closing date was
June 30, 1996.



3
9.    Project Extension. IDA agreed to extend the closing date twice to June 30, 1998 and to finance
the Additional Components discussed above. A third extension could not be not requested, because
disbursement had been under suspension since late 1997.
10.   Evaluation of Objectives. In view of the impending shortages of water and sanitation service in
Nairobi, the physicad objectives were timely and appropriate. The Project's main objectives of increasing
the water production and sewage treatment capacities were simple, well understood by, and important for
the NCC and the WSD.
11.   In framing the institutional objectives, IDA and the Borrower discussed the need to convert the
WSD into an autonomous organization, took encouraging early steps, but ultimately articulated a much
less ambitious objective of strengthening portions only of the existing entity. A strategic opportunity to
make significant institutional progress was obviously missed. A letter from IDA to the NCC (5/6/86)
indicated "... the Bank's prime concern in continuing to support Nairobi 's water supply and sewerage
development has been to strengthen the WSD to operate efficiently and with financial independence. Past
and current experience has revealed the serious shortcomings in both these areas ... ... Until these
weaknesses are corrected, it is the Bank's view (which we have repeatedly emphasized both to the Kenya
Government and the Commission) that further investments of the magnitude envisaged would only
aggravate an already difficult situation." The Borrower, eager to signal its concerns, replaced the entire
senior NCC management in early 1987 and agreed with IDA on the principle to create an autonomous
regional water authority to manage the Nairobi water supply (memorandum of 3/6/87). Recognizing that
it would take several years to create this regional authority, IDA suggested in a letter dated 5/18/87 that:
"... consideration be given to the preparation of an interim project " ... whose purpose would be to: (a)
provide modest expansion of Nairobi water supply at minimal cost in advance of construction of the next
major investment project; (b) continue and strengthen the ongoing program of operational improvements;
and (c) assist in the conversion of the Water and Sewerage Department into an autonomous
organization. "
12.    The SAR (para. 4.07) however concluded that: "...the transformation of the WSD into a separate
entity, which would require tremendous additional effort in manyfields --political, legal, managerial,
financial, etc. - would be premature and counterproductive during implementation of the proposed
Project." IDA was obviously faced with the conflicting objectives of initiating a large construction
program with a long implementation period, so that Nairobi has sufficient water in the medium term, and
the need for supporting an in depth institutional reform, so that the WSD becomes financially sustainable
as soon as possible. IDA finally concluded that sufficient improvement in the institutional set-up could be
achieved if the autonomy of the Water Fund (para. 21) was maintained and computerized billing was
instituted; an alternative strategy of waiting for more radical institutional changes was rejected by IDA
given the importance of securing Nairobi's water supply.
13.   Evaluation of Components. The design of the physical components of the Project was adequate,
and dimensioning of the works consistent with demand forecast made at appraisal. The production and
distribution extension programs were however somewhat unbalanced. There was also a discrepancy
between the objective of improving water supply and sanitation to lower income groups and a Project that
put little emphasis on service to customers and further included no secondary or tertiary water distribution
pipes, sewers, or connections in its original description. This was partly corrected, after most components
of the original Project description were completed, by the introduction of a limited pilot water distribution
component in particular in the slum area of Kibera, home to about half a million people. The Project's
institutional objective was supported only by a limited technical assistance and training program.



4
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
14.   Overall Assessment. The Project has achieved its objective of increasing the water production
and only partially achieved the objective of increasing the waste water treatment capacity. The Project has
only marginally achieved its objective of improving the water supply and sanitation service to low income
communities. It is still difficult to judge if the Project has achieved its objective of improving ambient
water quality in the Nairobi river. The Project has failed completely in its objective to improve the WSD
operational and financial efficiency. Facilities built by the Project are well designed and quality of
construction is good.
15.    Water Supply Service. Construction of a new dam on the Thika River has added fresh water
impoundment of 70 million m3. Available production capacity more than doubled from 214,000 m3/day
in 1988/89 to 455,000 m3/day in 1995/96 (Table 6); this capacity is estimated to be adequate to meet
demand through the year 2005. During the same period, actual production increased by 650%) from
214,000 m3/day to 347,000 m3/day. Total water connections increased from 101,000 to 158,000 and
residential connections increased from 93,000 to 145,000; this corresponds to average annual growth rates
of about 6.5%, comparable to that of the population. Population connected increased by about 50% from
630,000 to 980,000, but at the end of the Project, still an estimated 1,100,000 people, or more than 50% of
the total population had no direct access to piped water. During the Project implementation period,
Unaccounted for Water (UfW) may have increased from 28% to 51 %, while it had gone down from about
45% to 28% under the preceding project. These data indicate that the benefits of the water supply
component have been limited by a restricted extension of the distribution system and increase in UfW.
The increase in UfW could reflect a combination of several factors: (a) suspected un-metered off-takes on
transmission lines; (b) steady deterioration of the WSD commercial operations; and (c) an increase in
physical leaks due to higher pressure in the networks. The Kibera water distribution component was
aimed at correcting shortcomings of the original Project description by supporting provision of service in
lower income communities; it included a pilot community management system, with the WSD role
limited to that of bulk supplier. Construction activities could be completed only six months after closing.
16.    Waste Water Service. Waste water treatment capacity of the Dandora stabilization ponds has
increased from 30,000 m3/day to 90,000 m3/day. However, at closing, construction was still not
completed and is likely to be jeopardized by shortage of funds. During the Project implementation period,
the increase in the number of sewer connections has been mostly attributable to private real estate
developers; it is not known accurately. At closing, the available treatment capacity, after completion of
the anaerobic ponds and desludging of the existing facultative ponds, was significantly above: the volume
of waste water delivered by the main trunk sewer of about 50,000 m3/day, partly because untreated
sewage was illegally diverted by small farmers for informal irrigation. Also, most of the center of the city
still relies on an old combined sewer and storm water drainage system whose flow was not diverted to the
ponds. While effluent quality was according to standards, there are no reliable data to assess the impact
of the increase of waste water treatment capacity on the ambient water quality.
17.   Low Income Communities. The Project has only marginally achieved its objective of improving
the water supply and sanitation service to low income communities and a large percentage of the
population is still not served, despite increased capacities. The population with no direct access to piped
water may have increased from 700,000 to 1,100,000 between 1988/89 and 1995/96 (Table 6). The
poorest segments of the population, notably those living in slums are the most under-served, and the
Kibera pilot project was still in an early stage of implementation at closing.



S
18.   Institutional Development. The Project inappropriately aimed to address the institutional
deficiencies by simply providing limited training and technical assistance (TA) to the commercial and
financial management functions of the WSD. Training provided in Kenya and abroad failed to be
translated into improved performance; several staff trained left the WSD for better paid positions in the
private sector. The TA to commercial management failed partly because major delays hampered
implementation of a new computerized billing system. At closing , the WSD still took more than a year to
prepare financial statements of questionable accuracy, partly because most recording was manual. At
closing, procedures were also still too bureaucratic; for examnple, payment by the WSD still required the
signature of the NCC Treasurer and Town Clerk in addition to that of its General Manager for all expenses
in excess of KShIO,000 (US$167). In 1996/97, the WSD was able to issue only five billings instead of the
12 planned. On the bright side, limited decentralization of collection to the neighborhoods was a move in
the right direction.
19.   The Project failed to improve the WSD operational efficiency. The WSD performance suffered
constantly from the shortcomings of the institutional set-up identified at appraisal; this started with a six
month delay of the Credit effectiveness. With collection of local taxes being a major problem, the NCC
perceived the WSD as a main source of revenues. Therefore, the NCC had little incentive to grant
financial autonomy to the WSD and for the large part persistently starved the latter of much needed cash.
The NCC defaulted on most financial covenants and as a result, disbursement was suspended three times
by IDA during the eight-year implementation period. At closing, the WSD was still unable to provide
reliable data on its commercial and financial operations or to fund routine maintenance activities. At
closing, disbursement had been suspended for more than six-months, and conditions for lifting
suspension, had not been met (para. 21). In late 1990s, the WSD perfornance was still characterized by
problems idenitified in the SAR prepared in the late 1980's (para 4.05) namely: ''institutional problems,
e.g. inadequate salaty scales, cashflow problems, bureaucratic decision-making processes, poor
financial control, low staff morale, inflexible puirchasing procedures and hence poor management." A
bright note, however on the staffing ratio that decreased from 15 to 11.8 per thousand connections during
the Project implementation period.
20.   FinancialPerformance. At closing, the financial performance and position of the WSD were
significantly worse than projected, and also worse than at appraisal. In 1995/96, operating revenues and
cash generated from operations were significantly below forecast. In 1996/97, the average tariff, in
constant terms, was blelow that of 1988/89. Also, the level of liquidity measured by the current ratio
decreased (Table 6); the level of indebtedness measured by the long term debt to equity ratio increased;
and the ability to service the long term debt from operating income measured by the debt service ratio
declined. As of end 1996/97, accounts receivable represented about 770 days of billing. The under
provisioning of non-collectible accounts overstated eamings, current and total assets and equity.
21.   The WSD was constantly short of cash. Throughout Project implementation, the WSD
maintained a "Water Account" separate from the NCC "General Account" where revenues from water
sales were deposited. However, due to weak accounting and internal control systems, the two accounts
were still managed as only one. Because the WSD experienced difficulties accessing cash generated from
operations, it was unable to carry out regular maintenance activities. Constant disagreement on the
balance between the two accounts and late reimbursement of amounts borrowed by the General Account
from the Water Account, prompted IDA to suspend disbursement for a third time in December 1997.
Independent auditors were hired to certify the balance; preparation of the report was hampered by poor
accounting practices, co-mingled budgeting, and the multitude of inter account transfers. Their final
report, showing a (tentative) balance of Ksh93 million (US$1.5 million) in favor of the General Account,
was made available five months after closing. The auditors' report confirmed, as identified in the late



6
1980s, that financial autonomy of the WSD and the complete separation of the two accounts is a
prerequisite for improved financial management. No action plan was submitted by WSD to offset the
balance between the two accounts.
22.   The NCC defaulted repeatedly on financial covenants, that were not all adapted to the situation of
a utility company with poor collection and cash management records: (a) accounts and audits were always
submitted with substantial delays; (b) calculation of the rate of return was affected by questionable
valuation of the operating income and fixed assets in operation; (c) the debt coverage ratio remained
below 1.5; (d) at the end of 1995/96, accounts receivable reached 770 days, i.e. more than eight times the
90 days targeted at appraisal, because customers often refused to pay bills they considered inaccurate; (e)
medium term financial forecasts were never prepared; and (f) misuse of the Water Account was the main
cause of suspension of disbursement.
23.   Environmental Action Plan. Under Credit 1566-KE, the Govemment undertook in 1]988 an
extensive study of the environmental impacts of the proposed Project. In particular, a full environmental
impact of the Thika dam was assessed. The dam inundated 280 hectares of land displacing 3:35 families.
An acceptable resettlement program was undertaken by the Government in 1990; by 1992 when
impoundment began, all 335 farnilies had been compensated and resettled. In 1993, an environmental
mid-term review was carried out by consultants financed by the Project. The review showed that, both in
terms of physical environment and socio-economic environmental impacts, the mitigation measures
implemented had a satisfactory impact. At closing, the same consultants were hired again by the WSD for
a final review; their report is in under preparation.
24.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The ERR of the Project was recalculated at 0.2% as compared
with 12.6% at appraisal (Table 9). As in the SAR, the consumer surplus and extemalities, such as
improved public health, have not been not captured, thus leading to undercounting of benefits. The much
lower ERR achieved by the Project than that estimated at appraisal is explained by the devaluation of the
local currency that changed its capital cost structure and the rapid inflation that increased operating costs,
while tariffs were slow to rise. It also reflects the WSD's poor commercial performance, which leads to
significant loss of revenues.
E.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   Factors Outside of Government ControL The performance of financing agencies, contractors and
consultants with regards to implementation of construction activities of the original Project description
was generally satisfactory. The country experienced a decline in economic conditions and the
Government was forced to devalue the Kenyan Shilling several times. Between 1989 and 1998 the
Kenyan Shilling fell from approximately 22 to 61 against the US Dollar.
26.   Factors Subject to Government ControL Throughout implementation, the Project suffered from
the decision made at appraisal not to address the major institutional shortcomings singled out during
identification, with regards to its lack of autonomy of the WSD and the unclear incentive framework
within which it operates. At closing, most problems the WSD was faced with still had their r'oots in the
difficulty to: (a) access cash generatedfrom operations; (b) attract and/or retain competent staff by
proposing a competitive compensation package; (c) simplify a complex decision making process involving
the Ministries of Local Authorities and of Water Resources and the NCC; and (d) procure goods and
services according to industry standards. Counterpart funding was initially not a major issue, but at
closing, several contractors and consultants still claimed late payments and related interests on the portion



7
of the contracts financed by the WSD. It was also unclear how WSD would fund remaining construction
valued at US$1.5 mjillion equivalent.
27.   Factors Subject to the Control of the ImplementingAgency. The WSD Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) implemented the physical components agreed at appraisal satisfactorily. The PIU confirmed
that the participation of an expert panel to review the design and construction of the Thika dam was
beneficial. The PIU was initially able to avoid extemal interventions on procurement decisions.
Procurement records reveal that later, the NCC became more involved in procurement and adversely
affected its process. Even if the main reason of the steady deterioration of the WSD commercial
operations is its antiquated computerized billing system, the WSD has its share of responsibility in poor
meter reading, meter maintenance, bill collection and implementation of coercive measures for non
payment. As a result of limited maintenance means and regulation enforcement capacity, the WSD has
allowed a situation where illegal water supply connections can be built, farmers can divert untreated
sewage to irrigation, and structures can be erected on water mains and trunk sewers.
28.   Project Cost. The final Project cost is summarized in Table 8A. It is estimated at US$213.0
million equivalent to be compared with the estimated US$217.0 million at appraisal. The difference is
accounted for partly by savings related to currency devaluation and partly because components costing
approximately US$1.5 million were not yet completed. However, while lowest bids for most major civil
works contracts generally compared with appraisal estimates, their final cost ended up to be about 70%
above the bid price, of which about 42% was for physical contingencies (Table 8B); the major cost
overrun of the Thika Damn component forced the AfDB to increase its financing from US$35.2 million to
about US$62.8 million equivalent. The large difference between the final cost of most contracts and their
cost at award is difficult to explain taking into account that the Project had been thoroughly prepared
under an Engineering Credit and that about 16% of the construction costs were spent on construction
supervision, up from 6% estimated at appraisal. IDA had to conduct a detailed review of these large
contract increases because documentation submitted to justify them was not always of acceptable quality.
F.    Project Sustainability
29.   Several considerations indicate that the Project is unlikely to be sustainable, even if the water
production and waste water treatment capacities are likely to be sufficient to meet demand until 2005.
First, realizing the full benefit of the Project still requires that sizable investment be made to reinforce and
extend the water distribution and sewer systems. Second, although some interest in "commercializing"
municipal water companies has been demonstrated by the Government, there is still a high reluctance to
address the fundamental issue of the financial and managerial autonomy of the WSD; this will continue to
constrain its internal resource generation capacity. Third, the WSD's track record with regards to
maintenance is not encouraging; while some of the works built by the Project were still under defect
liability at closing, they may rapidly suffer from poor maintenance soon after demobilization of
contractors. Fourth, major deficiencies in commercial management still remain to be addressed, and it is
doubtful that a revamped computerized system could lead to major improvements in an institutional
environment that provides little or no incentive to perform. Finally, tariff increases needed to service a
large debt burden are uLnlikely to be accepted by consumers, unless they perceive a major change in the
way business is conducted.



8
G.    IDA Performance
30.   Overall, IDA performance was unsatisfactory, although performance was satisfactory during
Project identification, when IDA took several desirable steps to support the establishment of an
autonomous WSD. Performance during preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory: neither were Project
objectives fully consistent with issues identified, nor were Project components fully consistent with
objectives articulated. Specifically, while issues identified were mostly of institutional rather than of
managerial origin, Project components designed to address them were of managerial nature only.
Further, even managerial development components turned out to be inadequately designed. At appraisal
and during negotiations, IDA should have: (a) insisted on the establishment of a strong autonomous
organization as a condition for financing a large investment program and encouraged implementation of
the in-depth reforms needed to address all institutional shortcomings; (b) recommended a better balance
between water production with distribution and guided design of water supply components to serve low
income communities; and (c) selected financial covenants better suited to a utility company whose main
problems were, and still are, tariff collection and cash management.
31.   IDA performance during supervision was also unsatisfactory, with too much emphasis placed on
construction activities, and not enough on the WSD commercial and financial performance; rnonitoring of
financial indicators and preparation of short term financial projections were somewhat deficient. A fornal
mid-term review could have helped refocus the Project objectives and supervision activities. Despite the
poor achievement described above, Development Objective was often rated "satisfactory" in supervision
reports. Also, IDA may have contributed to delays in the procurement of the computerized billing system
because agreement on the tender document could not be reached rapidly. Towards the end of the Project,
supervision was also affected by changes of staff and poor record keeping; for exarnple, financial
supervision reports have been lost during reorganizations and moves. While suspension of disbursement
resulted in partial compliance with covenants, it also adversely affected Project implementation and did
not provide answers to major institutional problems "sidelined" at appraisal.
H.    Borrower Performance
32.   Overall, the Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. During the preparation and
implementation stages, the NCC and the Ministry of Local Authorities demonstrated no willingness to
address the many institutional issues to help the WSD improve its performance. However, the
performance of the PIU during implementation was satisfactory to the extent that all physical components
of the original Project description were implemented according to standards, within budget and with few
delays. Relatively speaking, the WSD is staffed with competent engineers and accountants who were
placed in an environment that provided neither means nor incentives to efficiently perform maintenance
and commercial activities. Their frustration was exacerbated by the inability of the Project to overhaul
commercial operations. The NCC/WSD defaulted on most covenants. At closing, and after three IDA
supported projects during the last 25 years, the water supply and sewerage service in Nairobi was still
provided by an agency unable to produce reliable data on its technical, commercial and financial
operations and in an alarming financial situation.
1.    Assessment of Outcome
33.   The Project outcome is unsatisfactory. Although all physical components of the original
description were implemented in a generally satisfactory manner, a strategic opportunity to achieve
significant institutional and commercial gains was wasted. Further, full benefits were not realized because



9
water production and waste water treatment capacities built by the Project were not balanced by
corresponding water distribution and waste water collection capacities, and consumers could not reap the
full benefits of these investments. Also, at closing, the Project had not been able to make a significant
difference in the provision of the water supply service to lower income communities and in the ambient
water quality in the Nairobi river. The Project has failed completely to improve the WSD commercial and
financial performance, and issues of autonomy of the WSD and of the incentive framework it would
operate under have not been addressed.
J.     Future Operations
34.    Future operations are likely to suffer because the political will to change the institutional
framework and incentive structure influencing the NCC/WSD is weak. Several important challenges
remain. Changing the institutional framework the WSD operates in would require the 'tremendous effort
-- political, legal, managerial andfinancial "referred to in the SAR (para. 40).
35.   With a growing population living in informal settlements and having no direct access to piped
water, there is an obvious need to develop alternative service standards and management arrangements. At
closing, the Kibera pilot water supply project was still in the early stages of implementation, and
community management options were still being investigated. The Kibera project must be continued and
closely monitored by the WSD so that it can be replicated in similar areas. But, with very little
incremental revenue to be expected from extending the service in such neighborhoods, the WSD may have
little incentive to pursue this effort if it is unable to generate revenues in formal settlements and if no
external financial and technical assistance is provided.
36.   Impact of the increased waste water treatment capacity on the ambient water quality is yet to be
demonstrated. To achieve full benefit of the Project, it would be necessary to collect illegal waste water
disposals in the Nairobi river, inject them in the trunk sewer and remove permanently the blockages
created by farmers to irrigate.
37.    Proper maintenance is a serious concern, because so far the WSD has been unable to finance it.
This could lead to a rapid degradation of the facilities built and to the need for financing costly
rehabilitation programs in the medium term. At closing, most facilities of the original Project description
had been in service for about two years; the defect liability period or technical assistance contract, such as
that for the Ngethu water treatment plant will end soon. While operation of the stabilization ponds
require limited operating budget only, their benefits are directly linked to the WSD's capacity to increase
the flow of waste water treated and thus to maintain and "police" existing trunk sewers. It is likely that
weaknesses in the WSD's technical, commercial and financial operations can only be solved if a major
decision is made to change the institutional set-up and involve the private sector in the provision of the
water supply and sanitation service. As a first step in this direction, the WSD has recently requested
proposals from several private firms for taking over its commercial operations; financing for this service
contract is supposed to come from WSD's own revenues.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
38.    Lessons learned from this Project are classified into three broad areas.



10
39.   Institutional Development. The first main lesson is that IDA should not finance projects unless
the Borrower is committed to implementing policy and institutional reforms that would guarantee their
sustainability. A second main lesson is that IDA must insist on the creation of autonomous water utility
companies prior to financing major development projects. A third main lesson is that IDA should
encourage Borrowers to seek private sector participation options, such as management, lease or
concession contracts, to improve overall technical, commercial and financial performance of the water
supply and sanitation service. Components of these lessons are as follows:
*  project objectives must address institutional issues identified during preparation; it has obviously
been counterproductive not to address them; it would have not been premature to address them in
parallel to a large investment program;
*  project components should be designed to achieve project objectives; if major institutional issues
are identified, managerial solutions are unlikely to address them;
*  the financial autonomy of the utility company is a prerequisite for protecting revenues generated
from water supply and sanitation operations being diverted for other purposes;
*  improvement of technical, commercial and financial operations of a utility depends on the
incentive framework it operates in; involving the private sector in the delivery of service is one
way of implementing this incentive framework; and
-  suspension of disbursement for non compliance with covenants affects implementation of the
Project and does not provide the proper answer to issues "sidelined" at appraisal.
40.    Financial Development. The main lesson learned is that IDA must carefully design financial
covenants, watch performance indicators agreed upon at negotiations and act decisively soon after
evidence of non compliance appears. Components of this lesson areas follows:
*  IDA must carry out, at least once a year, a full supervision of the financial performance of the
utility company, in order to check accuracy of data, and update financial forecasts and action plans
together with the Borrower; and
*  financial covenants should be tailored to issues to be addressed; financial covenants linked to cash
generation are preferable for utility companies with poor collection and cash management; in
order to be meaningful, a rate of return covenant must be based on maintenance expenses and
valuation of fixed assets be in line with industry standards.
41.   Plhysical Design and Implementation. The main lesson learned is that water supply and
sanitation projects must be designed to achieve a balance between production and distribution capacities,
and waste water treatment and waste water collection capacities so that project benefits reach the intended
beneficiaries. Additional lessons are as follows:
*  good quality engineering preparation and participation of an expert panel to review the design and
construction of dams, are elements that guarantee quality;
*  well prepared and monitored environmental and resettlement plans that involve timely
stakeholder participation are essential and do not delay Project design and implementation;
*  management of large contracts requires special monitoring and attention from the Borrower and
the Bank to avoid tlle need to assess large claims and cost increases; and
*  adding components to a Project that had already been suspended several times increases the risk
of non completion, if the causes for suspension are not removed.



11
KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 2060-KE]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1 - Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial    Partial     Negligible   Not applicable
(/)    (/)         (/~~~) '      ()
Macro policies                                                            V
Sector policies                   _
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives                             _
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives =
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (capacity building)
B. Project Sustainabil              Likely              Unlikely           Uncertain
(1)                (V)                  (1)
C. Bank performance                 Highly
satisfactory        Satisfactory        Deficient
(V)                 (V)                 (I)
Identification                     =
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance
satisfactory        Satisfactory        Deficient
(V)                  (V/)               (I)
Preparation                        =
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation
E. Assessment of Outcome      HighlyHighly
satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(D)            E                  )              ([)
L-                              LL [E  



12
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding Operations
Loan 714-KE, Nairobi   Develop the Chania-Kamania-   1970?            Outcome:      l
Water Supply Project   Thika river system for the                     Satisfactory
purpose of meeting Nairobi's
water needs
Loan 1520-KE, Second  Provided extensions for       1978              Outcorne:
Nairobi Water Supply   Nairobi's water supply needs up                Satisfactory
Project               to 1987-88
Credit 1566-KE Third   Assisted in the Preparation of    1985         Outcome:
Nairobi Water Supply   the Third Nairobi Water Supply                 Satisfactory
Engineering Project   Project
Table 3 - Project Timetable
Identification (Initial Executive Project                         November 14, 1986
Summary)
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        October 4, 1987
Identification (Final Executive Project                           May 24, 1988
Summary)                                                               .             l
Preparation                                                   .   1986-1988
Appraisal                                June 1988                June 1988
Negotiations                             January 1989             March 1989
Board Presentation                       March 1989               July 25, 1989
Signing                                                           August 15, 1989
Effectiveness                            September 1989           March 15, 1990
(after two
extensions)
Project Completion                       June 30, 1995            Dec 31, 1998
estimated
Loan Closing                             June 30, 1996            June 30, 1998 (after
two extensions)



13
Table 4 - Credit Disbursements
(SDR million)
Appraisal estimate        3.08     10.5   13.51    11.56    7.29     2.89    0.27    0        0      0
Actual                    3.82     6.3    5.41     2.71     6.32     3.91    7.31    5.01    2.47    0.4
Appraisal estimate        3.08     13.58   27.09    38.65    45.94   48.83   49.1    49.1   49.1   49.1
cumulative
Actual cumulative         3.82     10.12   15.53    18.24    24.56   28.47   35.78   40.79   43.26   43.66
Actual as % of estimate   124%    75%    57%       47%      53%      58%     73%      83%    88%    89%
cumulative
_                                                        



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
........ :-~ Item                               Estimae                     Acivmn
Part A: Water Supply
I      Source Works
(i)  New Dam on Thika River            Impounding 70 million m3 of water        Completed
(ii)  Access roads, raw water intakes,  Thika-Kiama tunnel 1.1 Km. Long and, 2.5   Completed
transmission tunnels and main      m. dia                                   Completed
Kisma-Chania tunnel 3.6 km. Long and 2.5    Completed
m dia.                                  Completed
Kimakia weir and shaft
Mataara-Ngethu pipeline 10 km. 1 100 mm.
Dia
2      Water Treatment, Delivery and Distribution System
(i)  Ngethu treatment plant            Increase capacity from 180,000 to 460,000    Completed
m3 /day
(ii)  Treated water transmission mains  Ngethu to Kiambu & Gigiri 36 km. Long and  Completed
_____  ________________________________  1300-1400 dia.
(iii)  Extension to distribution system  Add. reservoirs 46,000 m3.              Completed
I Grgiri pumping station
(iv)  Instrumentation, control, automation    __                                 Completed
(v)  Construction of staff housing and                                          Completed
offices                          l
Part B: Sewage Treatment Plant Extension
1  Rehab and extension of Dandora     Increase capacity to 90,000 m3./day dry  Completed
Sewage Treatmnent Plant            weather
2  Construction of staff housing and                                           Completed
offices
Part C: Improvement of Water Supply and Waste Disposal Facilities in Low Income Residential Areas
1| Vehicles, water meters and misc.   _                                        Completed
2  In-filling mains, public water points,                                      Completed
kiosks, and improving sanitary
facilities
Part D: Engineering and Construction Supervision
1  Consulting services for design and  Water treatment plant, pumping station,  Completed
construction supervision         J sewerage works and dam and tunnel safety
| panel
2  Consulting services for Master Plan    | Sewage and Sanitation              Completed
Part E: Technical Assistance and Training for NCC/WSD
1  Management support to NCCIWSD       Salaries and benefits                   Completed
2  Training programs                   Training consultancy services           Completed
Equipment and Materials
Courses in Kenya and abroad
Office technology equipment
3  Self Accounting System              Asset valuation for WSD                 Completed
4  Environmental Action Plan          Enhance area around Thika dam            Final Phase near
WSD/NCC Implement EAP                   completion
WSD/NCC establish EAP team



15
Part F: Additional Components
I  Kibera and Kasarani Distribution   Improved water supply distribution to nearly   Construction
Network                            500.,000 residents of the Kibera informal  completion
settlement.                             estimated for
December 1998
2  Desludging I)andora Ponds          Improved wastewater treatment efficiency  Construction
and reduced pollution loading on Nairobi  completion
River                                   estimated for
November 1998
3  Upgrading Kabete Pumping Station   Improved water supply distribution in   Completed
Nairobi
4  Computerization of Billing Svstem  Improved financial performance          Not Implemented
due to procurement
problems
5  Additional Project Supervision     To improve quality of construction for  Ongoing
additional components



16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
.......~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....          "/ ......     .99
............Fiscal 1988/89    Ficl1 91 9619
Unit   SAR  iActual~ ~SAR    Actua   SA    Actual
Physical Indicators                                                       _
Population                  000             1,345   2,050    1,980  2,150   2,090
Population Connected        000               630    NA        930   NA       980
Connection Ratio            %                  47    NA         47   NA        47
Population Not Connected    000               715    NA      1,050   NA    1,110
Total Water Connections     000               101    NA        150   NA       158
Residential Connections     000                93    NA        138   NA       145
Production Capacity        mil.               214    455       455   455      455
m3./d
Production                 mil.               214    377       269   401      347
m3./d
Sales                      mil.               149    283       194   301      170
m3./d                      _-
Unaccounted for Water            _             28     25        28    25       51
Staff employed                              1,520                         _  1,869
Staff /1.000 connections                       15                             11.8
Financial Indicators                              .
Operating Revenues        Shillings 30,326  27,751  89,911   63,595
Net Operating Expenses    Shillings  6,302   6,252  14,587   34,519       _
Operating Income          Shillings 24,025   18,247  75,325   23,429
Cash from Operations      Shillings  9,939   11,804  35,613   18,416
Operating Ratio             %                  34               63        _
Return on Gross Fix Assets            9.9      19   12.5        15        _
Working Capital           Shillings        23,667         (63,873)
Net Book Val of Fix Assets  Shillings      76,273 .        111,114        _
Long Term Debt            Shillings        43,314 .        481,941        _
Current Ratio              Ratio             2.35             0.69
Accounts Receivable       Days of    240      417     90       769
Bill.
Long Term Debt to Equity   Ratio             0.58              2.4        _
Debt Service Coverage      Ratio              1.4    1.5       1.2
Nominal Average Water     Shillings             7               23
Tariff
Real Average Water Tariff   Shillings           7                5         _



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                 DefinedPurpose    Status          Impactof Stdy
Ci t   u p s  .S....   . ....         .. .
1.                        Final Review       Report         Baseline Environmental
Physical Environment                     Awaited        Information
2   Social Environment    Final Review       Report         Baseline Environmental
Awaited       Infornation
3   Leak Detection        Technical
Assistance
4   Physical Environment   Mid Term Review    Completed     Baseline Environmental
Information
5   Social Environment    Mid Term Review    Completed      Baseline Environmental
Information
6   Drainage and Sewerage  Update            Completed      Future Drainage Plans
Master Plan
7   Billing and Collection   Computerization  Pilot program    10,000 largest customers
conducted     computerized



18
Table 8A - Project Costs
(US$ million)
Cemp~~rnent%  7,  Appraisal E't"mate          ........... 
1nd~~gA~itiona1'~~~   Local   orein .    ota..oc. ....n 
1    Intakes, Tunnel, Access Roads     4.0      9.6      13.6       8.8      14.7      23. 5
2    Thika Darn                        7.9      24.4     32.3      20.3      47.5      67.8
3    Ngethu Electrical and Mech.       2.0       7.3      9.3        1.0      2.2       3. 2
4    Ngethu Civil Works                6.8       3.1      10.0      2.9       4.5       7.
5    Raw and Treated Water Main       14.8      24.7     39.5      14.1      21.0      35.1
6    Reservoirs                        3.8       1.6      5.4       3.3       0.4       3.
7    Distribution Network              4.0       8.9      12.9      5.0       9.2      14. 2
8    Gigiri Electrical and Mech.       0.1       0.9       1.0      1.2       1.3       2.5
9    Gigiri Civil Works                0.2       0.0      0.2       0.6       0.0       0.6
iO  Instrument Control and             0.6       1.0      1.7       0.0       0.0       0.0
11   Housing and Offices               1.6      0.0        1.6      3.5       0.0       3.5
12   Dandora Civil Works              12.4      5.2      17.6       6.4       8.0      14.
13   Dandora Electrical and Mech.      0.5      2.9       3.5       0.8       2.2       3.0
14   Dandora Building                  0.9      0.0       0.9       1.6       0.0       1.6
15   Engineering Services              4.5      4.6       9.1       4.9      20.4      25.3
16   Training and Management           1.3       1.8      3.0       0.1       1.1       1.2
17   Land Acquisition                  3.4      0.0       3.4       5.9       0.0       5.9
Total Base Cost     68.9      96.1    165.0
Physical Contingencies           9.4      15.1      24.6
Price Contingencies              14.4     12.8      27.2
Total Project Cost    92.7    124.0    216.7        80.4    132.5    212.9
Costs estimated at appraisal are base costs as of end 1989; physical and price contingency are added in an
aggregate manner to arrive at the Total Project Cost. Actual contract costs were derived from (items I to
14) from final payment certificates. For engineering services, training, and management support (items 15
and 16). the actual cost figures were obtained from IDA disbursement information. The cost of land
acquisition was provided by NCC.



19
Table 8:B: Review and Analysis of the 10 Largest Civil Works/Goods Contracts
(KSh million)
.......... ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~       wetcL
AwArded
1.  Intakes. Tunnels, and  EIB         231        359        45         69        133     606
Access Roads
2.  Thika Dam            AfDB/          549       829       339        150        420    1,738
AtDF
3.  Raw and Treated Water  OECF        671        784       180        113         89    1,165
Pipelines
4.  Ngethu Treatmenit Plant  IDA        169        144       39         30        105      318
Civil Works
5.  Ngethu Treatment Plawt   IDA        158       134        11         26          7      177
Electro-Mechanical
6.  Reservoirs            IDA            92       120        18          0         26      164
7.  Trunk Distribution    IDA           lIt)       140       53         31         30      254
Mains
8.  Supply of Pipes and   IDA           110       122        17         69          0      208
Fittings
9.  Dandora Stabilization    IDA       299        260        26         20         46      352
Ponds - Civil Works
10. Dandora Stabilization    IDA         59         83       10           1         4       98
Ponds - E&MI
Total                         2,973      739        508        860    5,08
%                                100.0 t i ;!                       170.9
SAR Estimates              2,450                            365        404    3,21
0/0              100.0             _41$    131.
The above table compares the base value of ten major construction contracts at appraisal, award, and
completion. The total value of these contracts was about KSh 2,973 million at award, to be compared with an
estimate of KSh 2.450 at appraisal. Their final value was KSh 5,061 million. Variation orders and acceptable
claims by contractors represented 25% and 17% respectively, or a total of 42% of the cost of these contracts at
award; this figure is to be compared with estimated physical contingencies of 15% at appraisal. Price
adjustments represented about 29% of the cost of these contracts at award, to be compared with price
contingencies of 16% at appraisal.
It is difficult to explain the large difference between the contract cost at award and completion, i.e. about 42%
without price adjustment, taking into account that: (a) the Project was implemented after an Engineering
project that financed the preparation of detailed designs and tender documents; and (b) a total of about
US$21.2 million (or about 16% of the Project construction costs) was spent on two major Consultant
contracts for supervising construction activities. The value of one of these Consultant contracts doubled from
US$9.6 to 18.5 million during the Project implementation period.



20
Table 8C: Project Financing
(US$ million)
IDA                      18.0     46.8     64. 8     9.3      53.0    62.3
OECF                      8.3     31.7     40.0      9.4      21.1    30.5
AfDB/AfDF                 2.5     32.7     35.2      18.8     44.0    62.8
EIB                       5.8     12.8     18.6      6.2      14.4    20.6
NCC/WSD                  54.7              54.7     36.0        0    36.0
Government                3.4               3.4      0.7        0      0.7
Total                    92.7    124.0    216.7     80.4    132.5   212.9



21
Table 9 - Economic Rate of Return
Incremental Cost and Benefit Analysis (Millions of Kenyan Pounds)  Operating Cost & Revenues
Cost Estimates               Cash Flow    Cumul.  Cash Flow
Year Investmnent |Operation I Total IRevenuesiCurrent Prices  Inflation  1989 Prices    Costs  Revenues
1  1990   15.8       0.00    15.8    0.0        -15.8        1.2      -13.7        7.7        31.5
2  1991   44.8       2.80    47.6    1.0        -46.6        1.4      -33.6        10.5        32.5
3  1992   63.7       4.78    68.5   -0.7        -69.2        1.8      -39.2        12.5        30.8
4  1993   78.6       5.37    84.0    5.0        -79.0        2.0      -38.7        13.1        36.5
5  1994   75.9       8.71    84.6   38.4        -46.2        3.0      -15.5        16.4        69.9
6  1995   26.4       15.69    42.1   31.6       -10.4        3.8       -2.7       23.4         63.1
7  1996   51.8       26.82    78.6   32.1       -46.5        3.9      -11.9        34.5        63.6
8  1997   108.1      33.30   141.4   32.5      -109.0       4.3       -25.6       41.0         63.9
9  1998              40.39    40.4   62.7       22.3        4.7        4.7        48.1         94.2
10  1999              48.81    48.8   71.6       22.8         5.1       4.4         56.5       103.0
11  2000              58.81    58.8   87.6       28.8         5.1        5.6       66.5        119.1
12  2001             70.68    70.7   101.5       30.9         5.1       6.0         78.4       133.0
1 3  2002             70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
14  2003              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9        5.1        6.0         78.4       133.0
15  2004              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1       6.0        78.4        133.0
16  2005              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1       6.0        78.4        133.0
17  2006              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1       6.0         78,4       133.0
18  2007              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1       6.0        78.4        133.0
19  2008             70.68    70.7   101.5       30.9        5.1        6.0        78.4        133.0
20  2009              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
21  2010              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
22  2011              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
23  2012              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
24  2013              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
25  2014              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
26  2015              70.68    70.7   101.5       30.9        5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
27  2016              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
28  2017              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
29  2018              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
30  2019              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
31  2020              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
32  2021              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
33  2022              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
34  2023              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
35  2024              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
36  2025              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
37  2026              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
38  2027              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
39  2028              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
40  2029              70.68    70.7   101.5      30.9         5.1        6.0        78.4       133.0
Total       465       2295    2760   3306         546                    8         2603         4566
Internal Rate of Return expressed in constant 1989 prices              0.2%
Internal Rate of Return estimated at Appraisal                         12.6%



22
Sources:
*  investment costs were provided by NCC;
*  incremental costs and revenues are consistent with those used by the AfDB in their reports (AfDB
Aide-Memoire date 11/8/97);
*  selected operating income and costs were verified from audited financial statements (9/23/96)
Note: the methodology adopted in this calculation is slightly different from that adopted in the SAR:
the SAR estimates revenues and costs basing them on production, UFW, collection efficiency, and tariff
estimates;
*  since estimates for these data are not all available, the PICR estimate is based on costs and revenues
reported in financial statements;
*  in both approaches, the ERR is calculated from estimated cash streams associated with the project,
and consumer surplus and externalities, such as improved public health, have not been captured, thus
leading to undercounting of actual benefits; and
*  in the PICR, the cash streams reported in current terms have been adjusted to real 1989 terms to
calculate the ERR.
Results: the lower ERR than that calculated at appraisal can be explained by:
*  the devaluation of the local currency that changed the capital cost structure;
*  the rapid inflation that increased operating costs while tariffs were slow to rise; and
* the poor overall commercial performance of the WSD which leads to significant loss of revenues.



23
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants
CR     4.01      C     6/30/9   Borrower to reimburse NCC for cost of land  Complied with
I       acquisition and compensation payments
associated with Project
CR     4.03      NC            Borrower to agree with IDA and NCC on plan   Mutual
of action for resolving the qualification  indebted-ness
regarding non-payment of foreign and local  requires
loans on NCC's 1984 and subsequent audit  clarification
reports
PR     2.06      C     1/1/90  NCC to implement environmental action plan    Complied
PR     4.01(a)   CP            NCC to maintain records and accounts adequate  FY1995/96,
to reflect its operations and financial condition,  96/97 and 7/1-
including separate records, accounts, and  12/97 not
financial statements for its water and sewerage   audited
activities prepared in a commercial accounting
format as well as separate Project accounts
PR     4.01(b)i  CP            NCC to have accounts audited by independent   FYY1995/96,
auditors                                  96/97 and 7/1-
12/97 not
audited
4.01(b)i  CP           NCC to submit financial statements and interim  FY1995/96,
PR     i                       audit reports within 9 months of fiscal year  96/97 and 7/1-
12/97 not
audited
PR     4.01(b)i  CP            NCC to submit certified copies of financial  WSD complied,
ii                     statements and final audit reports within 12  NCC did not
months of fiscal year
PR     4.02i   'NC             WSD to ensure annual rate of return >7.5% after ROR <7.5%
1991.92
PR     4.03      NC            Debt service coverage to be >1.5 every year  Not complied
PR     4.04      NC   6/30/9   NCC to employ consultants to revalue assets  Valued once in
0       annually.                                  1990
PR     4.05                    NCC to ensure that WSD would consult IDA   Complied
before undertaking any additional invest
exceeding US$2 million
PR     4.06      NC            NCC to reduce accounts receivables arrears  Arrears are at
______________  ___ progressively to 90 days             769 days



24
CR     4.01      C     6130/9   Borrower to reimburse NCC for cost of land  Complied with
1   acquisition and compensation payments
associated with Project
PR      4.07(a)   CP            NCC to uses Water Fund only for water and  Water fund
sewage                                     loaned large
amounts to
general fund
PR      4. 07(a)  NC            NCC to progressively eliminate outstanding  Water fund
obligations to Water Fund                  loaned large
amounts to
general fund
Status Codes: C-complied, CD-Compliance after delay, CP-Partial compliance



25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Sitateent Number and                .-Comments.
OD 10.60                Weak intemal control within WSD led to the preparation of financial
Accounting, Financial    statements of dubious accuracy, always submitted with substantial delays.
Reporting, and
Auditing
OD 13.10                Complied with, albeit with substantial delays. Last audit report of WSD
Borrower Compliance    financial statements received for 1995/96. Last audit report on Special
with Audit Covenants    Account included significant qualifications.
OP 6.30                 Complied with. The Borrower contributed about 19% of the actual project
Local Cost Financing    cost.
and Cost Sharing
OD 13.30                Complied with. IDA also granted a grace period of four months after the
Extension of Closing    closing date to allow for disbursements for services completed before the
Dates                   Closing date.
OD 13.55                Complied with. WSD prepared its own evaluation of the Project's
ICR preparation         achievements and participated actively in IDA completion mission and the
review of IDA PICR.
OD 4.01                 Complied with. The final review of environmental effects and mitigation plan
Environmental           by independent consultants is still underway.
Assessment
OD 4.30                 Complied with. The final review of resettlement and mitigation plan by
Involuntary Resettlement independent consultants is still underway.



26
Table 12 - Estimated Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
g ...       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ......I...... 
Through Appraisal                   34.9                            86.5
Appraisal-Board                     45.118.l
Board-Effectiveness                  0                              0
Supervision                        188.2                          546.2
Completion                          16.5                           34.0
5            ~~~Total          284.70                          853.00



27
Table 13 - Bank Resources: Missions
|Tdentification   =
|Praration      6/8      W 1      2         FA
PrWaration      1/87-    1        12        FA                           _
| Prepration 6/87_   NA       NA         FA                                                                 .
Prenaration    12/87_    2       NA       F.N FV
|Pre-Ap=jqnis   3/88              12       F.NI ,.-n
Aggrmical      6/88      3        12    E.N, FC.t. F A
Silpervision    9/89      1       7         FIN                                              CC   PP
| .lpervision   7/90) _   3       12    F.N, FA, LT .Gc,(
|nptnervision    l0/90     2       6        .EN  FA           2                1               CC  AF
CnpDerYion      4/91_    2        15       EN, FA             3                I           CC   AF
pSnperision   J 6/912 _   3       15      FEN FA,
SWervision     11/91      L       5       FNJ FA             3                1            CC   AF PP
|npervision      3/92 _    2       FII     EN FA              3                1          CC  AF PP, FP
Cnupervision   4/92 2-            5N F              F        3                1           CC AF PP PP P.
SWervnision    73924-    2 ~ 1.           EN, FA             S                HSC   PP PP PS
|Sipervision    11/92      1       29L      nC                                            cc AFP PP FP, PS
iserjinn    2L92i      2..     25L      EN.JFA             IT               I          CC, AF PP PP PS
|Servisian      5/93 -    2       15    F.N FA                I               1 .          CC AFP PP, PS
-Silpervision  10/93     2        20                         2                1            CC AF PP FP PS
|Siervj-inn      3/94_    2        15 F.     N FA J           S               T-T           t.CC PP FP PS
Supervision     9/94               I    RN FA, CM             ,                R                 PP    PS
| Silpervi-don   7/95_-    2       20       FN.N F A          TT               R          t tC, AF, PP, FP PS,
| SiVpervision   1/96 _    3       I S        EN, FA, OP       .R              IR             CC, AF, FP
| Supervision   10/26      3 -     13       FN.N F A           S               11;            cc1, PP, FP
|SiRlervision   1/97      2       13       FN F A             S                1R             c(, PPI FP
- Silpervigion   7/97 _    1       S          FA              I T               R                 PP
S ,Rlnerviisinn    .L9& _    3 I   1I      FN.N              I T              IT             CC, PP, FP
La T.6stMission-  6/9X    3       1-     FN.N  A,F.          IT EI                           CCPP PE



28
Staff Skills                       Performance Ratings       Types of Problems
AR - Architect                     1 - Minor or No Problems   AF: Availability of Funds
CON - Consultant                   2 - Moderate Problems     CC: Compliance with Legal
EC - Economist                     3 - Major Problem         Covenants
EN Engineer                        S Satisfactory            FP: Financial Performance
EV - Environmentalist              HS Highly Satisfactory    PDO: Project Development
FA - Financial Analyst             U Unsatisfactory          Objectives
OA - Operation Assistant                                     PMP: Project Management
LG - Legal Expert                                            Performance
OP Operations Officer                                        PP: Procurement Progress
PO - Project Officer                                         PS: Progress of Studies
TTL - Task Team Leader                                       TA: Technical Assistance
DC -Division Chief                                           Progress
CM - Computerization
Specialist



ANNEX A
Page 1 of 6
Third Nairobi Water Supply Project
Credit 2060 KE
Final Supervision and Completion Mission
Aide Memoire
Distribution
Messrs./Mmes.:
B. Chele, PS, Ministry of Local Authorities
E. Mwongera, PS, Ministry of Water Resources
M. Chemengich, PS, Ministry of Finance
M. Wandera, Town Clerk, NCC
J. Ongele, Depuity Town Clerk, NCC
L. M. Musyoka, General Manager, WSD
J. M. Macharia, Manager, PIU.
World Bank Kenya Director's Office, Nairobi
World Bank Kenya Country Team, Washington
Regional Water and Sanitation Group, Nairobi
African Development Bank
European Investment Bank
Overseas Economic and Cooperation Fund
Nairobi
July 3, 1998



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 6
KENYA
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 2060-KE)
Final Supervision Report
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs. A. Locussol (Principal Water and Sanitation
Specialist), L. Morrell (Senior Financial Analyst), J. Gadek (Sanitary Engineer, consultant), J.
Karuiru and J. Sasia (Operations Officers, World Bank Nairobi) visited Nairobi between June 22
and July 3, 1998 to carry out a final supervision of the Third Nairobi Water Supply Project, for
which IDA Credit 2060 KE was closed on June 30, 1998, and initiate the preparation of the
Project Implementation Completion Report (PICR) that must be submitted to the Board before
end 1998. The mission was also joined by Ms. M. Kariuki (RWSG/EA). The mission met with
Messrs./Mmes. B. Chele, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Authorities, M. Wande:ra, Town
Clerk, Nairobi City Council (NCC), J. Ongele, Deputy Town Clerk NCC, L.M. Musyoka, General
Manager of the NCC Water and Sewerage Department (NCC/WSD), J.M. Macharia, PIU
Manager, the WSD senior staff and the Consultants who assisted the WSD implementing the
Project. The mission wishes to thank the WSD for its active collaboration and the courtesies
extended.
2.    The present aide memoire reflects the findings and views of the mission. It was discussed
with the WSD senior staff and reviewed during a wrap-up meeting chaired by the PS, Ministry of
Local Authorities on July 2, 1998. IDA evaluation of the Project will be reflected in a draft PICR
that will be submitted to the Government for review in October 1998. The Government's views
on the Project must also be reflected in its own completion report, to be prepared according to
Bank guidelines (a copy was provided), and sent to IDA by October 1998. An unedited version of
the Government's report will be included in the final PICR submitted to the Board (if it contains
less than 10 pages).
3.    The aide memoire includes in addition to this Final Supervision Report:
* a first draft of main text of the PICR;
* Annex 1: Final Project Cost, Implementation Issues; and
* Annex 2: NCC/WSD Financial Performance.
Implementation Issues
4.    The Credit was definitively closed on June 30, 1998, after two extensions from the
original closing date of June 30, 1996. At the Credit closing date, disbursement had been
suspended since December 1997. Conditions for lifting suspension -- submission of an audited
balance of the Water and General Funds, together with an action plan to settle amounts borrowed
by the General Fund -- had not been met at the closing date; the auditors report is now expected
for July, 1998. The mission requested that a copy be forwarded to IDA for information, together
with the corresponding action plan, as soon as possible. A third extension of the closing date was
neither requested by the Ministry of Finance, nor considered by IDA.



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 6
5.    At the Credit closing date, several construction contracts, that were added in February
1997 to the original Project description, could not be not completed. Disbursement applications
for works and services completed before June 30, 1998 can be processed until July 31, 1998.
However, the mission will investigate the possibility of extending this date until October 30,
1998; it is likely that IDA would request that ineligible expenses paid from the Special Account
be first reimbursed. Annex I shows that about US$1.45 million equivalent remained to be paid
for activities to be carried out after the closing date. Annex 2 shows that it is unlikely that the
WSD can generate sufficient revenues in 1997/98 and 1998/99 to finance these contracts. The
Ministry of Local Authorities plans to seek agreement from the Ministry of Finance to finance
these contract from funds available in other IDA supported projects. The mission suggested that
IDA could accept a proposal to finance completion of the Kibera water distribution contract from
Cr. 2333 KE (Second Mombasa Water Supply Project) which was recently extended until
December 31, 1998. The mission asked that a copy of the agreement, if any, between the Ministry
of Water Resources, NWCPC, and the WSD be forwarded for review as soon as possible.
According to estimate carried out, the maximum amount to be financed should be:
US$ Equivalent
Completion of construction activities                  180,000
Construction supervision                                10,000
Technical assistance to communities                       N/A
Contingencies                                           10,000
Total                                                  200,000
NCC/WSD Financial Situation
6.    Annex 2 reflects the WSD financial performance and position as of end 1995/96, the
fiscal year for which financial statements were last prepared. The financial situation is
significantly worse than what was forecast at appraisal and even worse than at appraisal. It can be
summarized as shown in the table below. Since beginning of the Project, the WSD has constantly
defaulted on Credit financial covenants. As explained in the Outline of the Project
Implementation Completion Report, it is unlikely that the situation can be improved in the near
future if the institutional set-up and incentive framework the WSD is placed in is not drastically
changed.



ANNEX A
Page 4 of 6
NCC/WSD Summary Income Statements and Financial Positions
(in Kenyan Pounds -- Kf1.0 = Ksh2O)
1988/89                1995/96
SAR       Actual       SAR        Actual
Volume of Water Sold (million m3)        50.24                   95.53
Average Water tariff (KSh/m3)             9.00                   13.96
Income Statement
Operating Revenue                       30,326      27,751      89,911      63,595
Net Operating Expenses                    6,302      6,252      14,587      34,519
Operating Income                        24,025      18,247      75,325      27,009
Cash Generated from Operations           9,939      11,804      35,613      21,966
Operating Ratio                                       34%                     63%
Rate of Return on Gross Fixed Assets      9.9%        19%       12.5%         15%
Financial Position
Working Capital                                     23,667                (63,873)
Net Book Value of Fixed Assets                      76,273                 1.11,114
Long Term Debt                                      43,314                 481,941
Current Ratio                                         2.35                    0.69
Accounts Receivable (day of billing)       240         417          90        769
Long Term Debt to Equity                              0.58                     3.2
Debt Service Coverage                                  1.4                     1.2
Summary of the Findings of the Completion Mission
7.    The Project has achieved its objective of increasing the water production and sewage
treatment capacities. Facilities built by the Project are well designed and quality of construction is
good. The Project has only marginally achieved its objective of improving the water supply and
sanitation service to low income communities, that now represent half of the population of
Nairobi. The Project has failed to improve the WSD operational and financial efficiency. The
WSD performance suffered constantly from the shortcomings of the institutional set-up identified
during preparation. At appraisal, however, it was decided that it would be counterproductive and
premature to address during Project implementation.
8.    The Project is likely to be unsustainable:
*  the Government still appears somewhat reluctant to address the fundamental issue of the
WSD financial and managerial autonomy, it has shown interest for "commercialization" of
municipal water utility companies;
*  major deficiencies in the WSD commercial management remain to be addressed, and with
limited external financing available, the timetable for improvement is uncertain;
*  NCC/WSD track record with proper budgeting of maintenance is not encouraging; works
built by the Project could rapidly suffer from lack of maintenance;



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 6
* any tariff increase to generate additional revenues needed to service the WSD mounting long
and short teim debt is unlikely to be accepted by consumers, unless they perceive that major
changes in tde way business is conducted;
* realizing the full benefit of the Project would require sizable investment to reinforce and
extend water distribution and waste water collection; in the current economic situation,
external financing is questionable.
9.     To achieve Project sustainability, major changes in the institutional framework the WSD
operates in would require the 'tremendous effort -- political, legal, managerial andfinancial "
referred to in the Staff Appraisal Report. More precisely, this would require: (a) a strong political
willingness at the highest level of decision making; (b) the participation of independent
consultants with relevant experience in assisting governments reorganizing their water supply and
sanitation sectors and selecting options for private sector participation adapted to local conditions;
(c) study tours in countries, preferably in Africa, where successful reorganizations have been
implemented; and (d) targeted public relation exercises to involve all stakeholders in the design of
the solution.
10.   With a growing population living in informal settlements and having no direct access to
piped water, there is a need to develop alternative service standards and management
arrangements. The Kibera pilot water supply project was only in early stages of implementation
at the Credit closing date and community management options were still being investigated. This
project must be continued and closely monitored by the WSD, so that it can be replicated in
similar areas. But, with very little incremental revenue to be expected from service extension in
these neighborhoods, the WSD may have little incentive to pursue this effort if it is not able to
generate revenues in formal settlements and if no external financial and technical assistance is
provided.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   Institutional Development
* project objectives must address the major institutional issues identified during preparation;
* it has been counterproductive not to address the major institutional issues identified during
preparation; it was not been premature to address them in parallel to a large investment
program;
* project components should be designed to achieve project objectives; if major institutional
issues are identified, they are unlikely to be addressed adequately by limited managerial
solutions;
* learning lessons from countries, preferably in Africa, that have successfully implemented
major institutional reforms could have helped design solutions adapted to the local situation;
* improvement of commercial operations depends as much upon quality of the billing system as
on the incentive framework a utility company is placed in to reduce unaccounted for water
(UfW) and improve collection;
* suspension of disbursement for non compliance with covenants affects project
implementation and does not provide the proper answer to issues "sidelined" at appraisal.



ANNEX A
Page 6 of 6
12.    Financial Development
*  IDA must carry out, at least once a year, a full supervision of the financial performance of the
utility company it lends to, in order to review accuracy of data, prepare short-tern financial
forecast and action plans with the company;
*  financial covenants should be tailored to the financial issues to be addressed; financial
covenants linked to cash generation are preferable for utility companies with poor collection
and cash management;
*  if audit reports are not in line with industry standards, IDA should request the Borrower to
employ the service of acceptable auditors.
13.    Physical Implementation
*  good quality preparation, continuity of the engineering consultant throughout the prcject
cycle, participation of an expert panel to review the design and construction of darns, are
elements that guarantee quality;
* well prepared and monitored environmental and resettlement plans do not delay proj ect
design and implementation;
*  management of large contracts requires special attention to avoid assessing large claims and
cost increases;
*  adding components to a project that had already been suspended several times increases the
risk of non completion, if causes for suspension are not removed.



ANNEX B
Third Nairobi Water Supply Project
Credit 2060 KE
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR



]]DA CREDIT 2060 KE
THIRD NAIROBI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A (i). EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The objective of the project was to;
*     Expand Nairobi's Water Supply System to cater for increased demrand up to
the year 2003 - 5.
Improve the basic needs provision and health conditions of the poor
Assist in maintaining the sanitation standards in the city.
Preventing pollution in the recipient rivers.
*     Improving the efficiency of NCC's Water and Sewerage Department (WSD)
with the aim of supporting its transition, at a later date into an autonomous
body.
(ii) Project Components.
To achieve these objectives, the project included the following major components;
-     Extension of the water supply system
Expansion of source works and raw water transmission capacity.
Extension of treatment capacity at Ngethu waterworks from 180,()00m3/day
to 440,000m3/day.
Extension of the treated water transmission and storage capacity.
Construction of a new pumping station at Gigiri and Improvement of the
reliability of the pumping facility at Kabete.
Extension of the distribution system.
Construction of offices, staff housing and social amenities.
Rehabilitation and extension of the sewerage treatment plant to total capacity
of 80,000m3/day
Water supply and waste-water disposal in low income residential areas.
Engineering and construction supervision for the above works and the
preparation of a sewerage and sanitation master plan.
Page 1 of 9



*     Technical Assistance and training for WSD.
B (i)  ACHIIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
(i)   Physical
The major objective of the project, that is to expand Nairobi's water supply system;
was substantially achieved. However the improvement of basic needs provision and
health conditions could not be accomplished by implementation of the above project
components on their own. It required parallel complementary programmes from other
sectors e.g; health, housing and environment.
There is also need to continue the expansion of the distribution system if benefits of
the expanded source works and treatment capacity are to be fully realised.
The trunk sewers are in very sorry state partly due to wilful blocking of the same by
farmners, theft of manhole covers, deterioration due to age, surface overburden etc.
Construction of houses along the sewer wayleave has made it difficult for WSD to
carry out maintenance operations. These are matters which need to be attended to in
the near future otherwise discharge of raw sewage into water courses and pollution
of the rivers will continue for quite some time.
(ii)   Macroeconomic Policies
This has no direct relevance.
(iii)  Sector policies
The project is yet another step forward in realisation of the water and
sanitation sector development policies.
(iv)   Financial Objective:
The project has failed to improve the WSD operation and financial efficiency.
In fact WSD is worse off financially than it was before the project. The
reasons for this is that the development of the Institutional capacity of WSD
and NCC has failed to keep pace with development of WSD's Physical
Infrastructure. The billing system and procedures are woefully inadequate for
a city the size of Nairobi. The current WSD/NCC Institutional arrangement
requires restructuring if the water supply and sanitation services are to be
financially sustainable.
Page 2 of 9



(v)   Institutional Developments
The Institutional problems afflicting WSD were identified during the
preparation of the staff appraisal report. However the SAR concluded that the
transformation of WSD into a separate entity " would be premature and
counter-productive during implementation of the project. Consequently, only
marginal institutional developments have occurred in the recent past. The
major problems identified by the SAR, namely inadequate salary scales, cash
flow problems, bureaucratic decision making processes and hence poor
management continue to plague W&SD
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
(i)    Factors not generallv subject to Government Control
The project was affected by factors outside of Government Control. The
outbreak of the Gulf War resulted in changes in oil and energy costs and led
to increases in freight costs for offshore source goods. The wind of political
change in Africa that brought with it high internal inflation rate.
(ii)   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
The Project suffered from the decision made at appraisal not to address the
major shortcomings of the institutional set up while the SAR identified
autonomy of the WSD as a prerequisite for performance. Thus WSD is still
unable to access cash generated from its operations, unable to offer
competitive compensation package in order to attract and retain quallified staff,
and faced with a complex decision making process involving the ministries of
local authorities, water resources and Nairobi City Council etc.
The disbursements of IDA funds for the project was suspended on three
different occasions due to non compliance with credit conditionalities by the
Government not only for the project credit but other credits as well.
(iii)  Factors subject to the control of the Implementing Agency:
The Project Implementation Unit under the Project Manager implemented the
physical components of the project satisfactorily. However over the years
certain components of the project eg sewer master plan, computerisation of
WSD, Training of WSD Staff etc. were silently removed from the direct
control of the Project Manager.  As a result, implementationi of these
components did not benefit from the exposure and experience of the P.I.U
staff.
Page 3 of 9



Institutional structure constraints continued to affect the implementation of the
project particularly the lengthy decision making process often compromised
by politics. Thus contracts could not be awarded in time; compensation to
land owners could not be effected in time etc. The effect has been the
obvious delay in completion of the project especially the added components
financed through savings from initial project cost.
The overhaul of the commercial operations of WSD is a case in point where
institutional and managerial has resulted in a situation where metering, billing
and collection of revenue has all but stalled. Indecisiveness in procurement of
water meters for instance led to a situation where between 1995 and 1997,
new connections were hampered by lack of meters and metering of
consumption was abandoned in certain housing estates.
There were significant cost overruns in local currency terms. However in US
dollar terms there were savings.  This is due to the fact that project
components were priced in Kenya Shilling which between 1990 and 1995
devalued from 18 to 70 shilling to the dollar, resulting in more than
proportionate increase in cost of inputs on the local market.
There were minor delays in the implementation of the project. The SAR
anticipated the implementation to be complete by 1994/95. However at the
Credit closing date implementation of some components was still under-way;
though these were additional elements. The main cause of the delays were:-
(i)   Length decision making process both within the NCC and other key
players and delays in selection of Contractors.
(ii)   Delay in land acquisition
(iii)  Delays in payment to the contractors by both the Bank and NCC
leading to Contractors suspending work or going slow.
(iv)   Suspension of disbursement by the bank due to non compliance by
NCC and GOK with Development Credit Agreement conditions.
(v)   The change in the project horizon necessitated redesign of some
components of the project eg. the Treatment Plant, resulting in delay
in calling of tenders.
There were no natural disasters which directly affected the Project. Marginal
interruption were recorded as a result of the collapse of the Nairobi-Mombasa railway
line and lastly the onset of El Nino phenomenon affected the additional components.
Page 4 of 9



D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABIL1TY
The achievement made by the project in relation to its objectives are unlikely to be
sustained due to the following:-
i)    The Government has yet to decide on WSD autonomy.
ii)    The physical infrastructure installed under the project are likely to fall into a
state of disrepair due to allocation of inadequate maintenance funds and skilled
staff. The pumping stations and the expanded water and sewage treatment
plants are likely to suffer most.
iii)   The commercial operations of the department have been virtually untouched
by the project and there has been a steady deterioration in the efficiency of the
department commercially. This decline is expected to continue with knock on
effect on the entire operation of the department. Failure to implement the
billing and software component of the project is likely to accelerate the decline
of the billing system.
iv)   WSD does not have power to review tariff for cost recovery. The procedure
involve the Ministry of Local Authority and Water Resources etc.
v)    The water distribution system and sewer collection systems need to be
expanded if the full benefit of the project are to be realised. Not much
activity is expected on these twin direction due to financial constraints. Thus
the water may be available at the terminal of the transmission points but
actually selling it and generating the much needed revenue will continue to be
a problem. The matter of follow up projects needs to be addressed urgently.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
i)    Project Identification and preparation
The project was consistent with the Governments and Banks development strategy.
However, components of the water supply to the urban poor and collection of waste
water should have been given more weight. The assistance of the bank in the project
preparation was satisfactory. The major aspect of preparation namely technical,
financial, economic, environmental and sociological were adequately covered. There
were shortfalls in the commercial and institutional aspects arising mainly out of
inadequate involvement of the bank in the development and implementation of these
aspects. Perhaps the bank failed to appreciate the potential negative impact of
institutional shortfalls in the implementation of the project.
Page 5 of 9



ii)    Bank's Performance in Project Appraisal
During the project appraisal, the above aspects were looked into in details.
Experience was also drawn from the implementation of the Nairobi water supply
phase II under credit 1520KE. Thus at the time of appraisal, the necessary measures
necessary to ensure proper implementation and sustainability of the project were
identified.
Despite identification of these problems, the project suffered heavily from the risks
identified at appraisal namely; inadequate improvement in WSDs institutional capacity
and heavy borrowing by NCC general fund from the water capital fund.
The financing package was adequate for the project.
The bank's relationship and coordination with other financing agencies was cordial.
iii)   Bank's Performance in Project Supervision
The performance of the bank during the project implementation can be judged as of
mixed quality. Until the later stages of the project implementation, all issues were
reviewed and resolved in Washington. Follow-up was always a major problem. The
bank placed emphasis on physical aspect of the project implementation though
curiously enough, the credit was suspended on three (3) occasions on non-engineering
matters. Perhaps if the bank had placed more emphasis on management and fmancial
issues in the project supervision, the suspensions could have been avoided. In any
event, the suspension of disbursements caused more problems than the solutions they
provided.
There was a high turnover of bank staff resulting in serious difficulties in follow-up.
The delegation of certain responsibilities to the local office in the later stages of the
project did ease the problems somewhat.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
i)    Performance of WSD
The performance of WSD in the project identification, preparation and
implementation can also be judged of mixed quality. The P.I.U. which was
responsible for the physical implementation performed satisfactorily in a less than
conducilve environment. The selection of contractors and consultants was conducted
in a transparent and professional manner. The commercial section of the WSD
performed less satisfactorily perhaps due to inadequate emphasis placed on
commercial aspects by all parties.
Page 6 of 9



ii)   Performance of NCC
By NCC is meant other arms of the City Council which WSD had to liaise with in
the project implementation including the Council. The support of NCC was less than
satisfactory. Approval of contract awards delayed due to trivialities. Payments to
contractors and landowners was always delayed. Perhaps the greatest impact on the
project was use of water capital fund by the general fund causing the project to be
suspended twice.
iii)   Performance of the GOK
The performance of GOK was also less than satisfactory. The budgetary allocation
for the project was not always adequate. The Government abdicated its responsibility
on land acquisition leaving NCC to shoulder the burden of compensating land owner
affected by the project. The decision making in the Government is bureaucratic and
lengthy. Failure by GOK to comply with conditionalities on other IDA funded
projects led to suspension of the credit once.
The accounting system and disbursement procedures were lengthy making payments
to contractors and consultants delayed leading to payment of interest on late
payments, suspension by contractors and delay in project implementation.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The project outcome is satisfactory. However, although all physical component of the
original description were implemented according to specifications. Implementation
of additional components are still under-way and their future hangs in balance due to
financing uncertainties. WSD is still unable to get water to a substantial proportion
of Nairobi Residents due to constraints in the distribution system.  Similarly,
inadequacy in the waste water collection system means that the expanded sewage
treatment works operates below capacity as most of the raw sewage discharged into
natural water courses. The project has failed to improve the WSD commercial and
financial performance. The new billing system has not been installed although it
would not have been expected to make much impact if issue of WSD autonomy and
incentive framework are not addressed.  The training component can also be
described to have been of mixed success, some of the beneficiaries of training
programme have left the organisation in search of better working conditions while
others who have remained continue to work in less than conducive environment. On
a more positive note, WSD now has a fully developed source works and water and
waste water capacity to sustain the demands of a fast growing city up to the year
2010.
Page 7 of 9



H.   FUT1JRE OPERATION
Unless the commercialisation of the urban water supply sector is implemented
speedily, the future prospects of the operation of the project do not look very
promising. WSD's maintenance has been run in a fire fighting basis with inadequate
budget and funds. There is real danger of rapid degradation leading to financing
costly rehabilitation programmes in the medium term. The commercial operations of
the department cannot be sustained at the current state; there is an urgent need to
change the way business is conducted. Involvement of the private sector in new
connections, metering and billing may be the way into the future.
1.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
(i)   Institutional Development
*    Project objectives must address institutional issues identified during
preparation; it has obviously been counterproductive not to address them; it
would have not been premature to address them in parallel to a large
investment program;
*    Project components should be designed to achieve project objectives; if major
institutional issues are identified, managerial solutions are unlikely to address
them;
Learning from  countries, preferably in Africa, that have successfully
implemented major institutional reforms could have helped design institutional
options adapted to the local situation;
Improvement of commercial operations depend as much on the quality of the
billing system as on the incentive framework the utility company is placed in
to reduce UfW and improve collection;
Suspension of disbursement for non compliance with covenants affects
implementation of the project and does not provide the proper answer to issues
"sidelined" 'at appraisal.
(ii)   Financial Development
There should be as much emphasis on financial performance as technical
performance.
Audit reports should be prepared by a different institution to the one that
prepares the accounts to enable cross-checking.
Financial records should be readily accessible and possibly computerised.
Page 8 of 9



*    Proper records of WSD/NCC mutual indebtedness should be maintained in
line with normal accounting standards. WSD should be free to source for
services rendered by NCC from the open market to enable it get the best
services at better rates eg Computer and legal services.
(iii)  Physical Implementation
Thorough definition and appraisal, continuity of engineering consultant
throughout the project cycle and participation of an expert panel to review the
design and construction of dams are elements that guarantee quality though
continuity of consultant may deny the borrower the opportunity to obtain
competitive rates and may also lead to complacency on the part of the
consultant.
Well prepared and monitored environmental and resettlement plans do not
delay project design and implementation.
Management of large contracts requires special attention to avoid the need to
assess large claims and cost increases.
Awarding contracts to the lowest bidder does not guarantee least cost of
implementation and maybe a recipe for complications on qcality control.
Inspite of the institutional shortcomings, it is still possible Lo implement a
complicated water supply project though this may be too demanding on the
project management team.
Page 9 of 9



IBRD 21208
< 0  9    \  \  SUDAN  -.ETHIOPIA
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SASUMUA                         -\ ,'
RESERVOIR           \                         \                                                        Rr             ,K
RES    ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~ ~ N   ~,Z                                                      RIFT              NORTH
VALLEY   EASTERN I         <
I           '~~~~~EASTERN
SASUMA                                                                                                             I         <'N 
REATMENT                                                                                            K EN'NY CD'
WORKS      \W E S ,T ERN K E NDY  A
2-
N                 ~~~~~~-NAZ ~1ENTRAL
\               \ ~~~~~DRAW  PPWORKS  \- IK-K      UN\ EL           ',2, *  '.-      ' .
\~ -P            . <       T,t, l KIAUNb\ r  vEI    \  _ '   _
\ t -XIA\tA-JEIR \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' u   XCOAST
-   M v I>b-CAINIA TUNNEL  \                            CIOAS
Ki \                             TANZANIA        <          INDIAN
N~ \-, -     KIMA NIA   IR                                                  OCEAN
MWAGU 
I R N
EXISTING TUNNEL-"          N           N       +                                   It,
EXISTING ROUTE        \
OF UNTREATED WATER                     .
X \\ \ <X<Qzo~~~~~V.-                          TREATMENT\f&~-
|                                           <         ~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~WORKS  NN  .Ch bOtd
i   <                              '9   | x PROPOSED ROUTE
OF TREATED WATER
RUIRU     \\.                   '- -      '.               'G       '.
RESERVOIR \     s-
K E N  Y A                                                       , '-
NAIROBI THIRD
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project E.isting                                                                                   N
-          WWATER PIPELINES                              \ -
TUNNELS\                        ~                  \    
Cr        PUMPING STATIONS 'N              |                                         N __
10    *  RESERVOIRS
EXIST!NG ROUTE    .1-
*11    *  TREATMENT PLANTS\                      OF TREATED WATER-  '. ,                             _
-     -   DAMS5                              \                                      1>, tD,,SRUIRU O
~, c"WEIRS                                                                "-
.0        S H A F T               \'/'--
NAIROBI CITY         "\       |
r   RIVERS                                                                R
REGION BOUNDARIES
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   PROPOSED
11KY          -    D        KIAMBUORESERYCtlRKI-BR"
1 ANTO Ptt"MPG OSTATtON 
KIK                          T11ME /                                                                       RT      0N  U
SPRINGS                                                       NAIROBI                   o_J
NOVEMBER 19B8



