Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2060 KE
               (Third Nairobi Water Supply Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      NAIROBI CITY COMMISSION
                       Dated August 15, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2060 KE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  15,  1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the   Association)   and  NAIROBI  CITY
COMMISSION (NCC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various  currencies  equivalent to forty-nine million
one hundred thousand Special  Drawing  Rights (SDR 49,100,000), on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition  that NCC agree to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and NCC,  the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement shall be made available
to NCC on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS NCC, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) NCC  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate administrative,  financial  and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and NCC shall other-
wise agree, NCC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. NCC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08  of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  NCC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NCC shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) NCC shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  NCC shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by NCC  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. NCC  shall  by  January  1,  1990, commence the
implementation of an Environmental  Action Program satisfactory to
the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of NCC
Page  3
     Section 3.01. NCC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. NCC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in  accordance  with  sound engineering and financial
practices.
     Section 3.03. NCC shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  NCC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices,
its  operations  and   financial   condition,  including  separate
records, accounts  and  financial  statements  for  its  water and
sewerage activities prepared in  a commercial accounting format as
well as separate Project Accounts.
     (b)  NCC shall:
          (i)  have   said   records,   accounts   and   financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and  expenses  and  related  statements)  for  each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association  as soon as possible but
               in any case not  later  than  nine months after the
               end of  each  such  year,  copies  of its financial
               statements for  such  year  as  so  audited and the
               interim report of such audit;
        (iii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available but
               in any case not later  than twelve months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iv)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, NCC shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
Page  4
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a)  Except  as  the  Association may otherwise
agree, for each of its  fiscal  years,  NCC shall, with respect to
its  water  supply  and  sewerage  services,  take  all  necessary
measures,  (including,  without  limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure or levels, of  its  rates  for water supply services and
sewerage services as the  case  may  be)  as  shall be required to
generate for WSD  in  relation  to  its  water supply services and
sewerage services, revenues sufficient  to  produce an annual rate
of return  of  not  less  than  7.0%,  from  FY  1988/1989 through
FY 1991/1992, and 7.5% thereafter.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the annual rate  of  return  shall be calculated by
               dividing  the  NCC's   net  consolidated  operating
               income from water supply  and sewerage services for
               the year in question  by  the average current gross
               value of the NCC's  fixed water supply and sewerage
               assets, in operation  at  the  beginning and end of
               the fiscal  year  for  which  the  return  is being
               determined.
         (ii)  The term "net  consolidated operating income" means
               total  operating  revenues   less  total  operating
               expenses, from water supply and sewerage services.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from  all  sources  related  to  water  supply  and
               sewerage services operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses  related  to  water  supply  and  sewerage
               services   operations,   including  administration,
               adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
               taxes, but  excluding  provision  for depreciation,
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average  current  gross  value  of  NCC's fixed
               water supply and sewerage assets in operation shall
               be calculated as one-half  of  the sum of the gross
               value of  NCC's  fixed  water  supply  and sewerage
               assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
               of the fiscal year, as  valued from time to time in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods   of   valuation    satisfactory   to   the
               Association.
     Section 4.03. (a)  Except  as  the  Association may otherwise
agree, NCC shall not incur any debt on account of its water supply
and sewerage services, unless the net consolidated revenues of NCC
with respect to water supply  and sewerage services for the fiscal
year immediately preceding the  date  of  such incurrence or for a
later  twelve-month  period  ending  prior  to  the  date  of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater,  shall be at least 1.5 times
the estimated maximum  debt  service  requirements  of NCC for any
succeeding fiscal year on  all  debt  of  NCC for water supply and
sewerage services including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
Page  5
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of NCC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing
               for such debt or for  the modification of its terms
               of payment on the  date of such contract, agreement
               or instrument.
        (iii)  The  term  "net  consolidated  revenues"  means the
               difference between:
               (A)   the sum of revenues  from all sources related
                     to  water   supply   and   sewerage  services
                     operations adjusted to  take account of NCC's
                     water and sewerage  tariffs  in effect at the
                     time of the  incurrence  of  debt even though
                     they were not  in  effect  during the twelve-
                     month period  to  which  such revenues relate
                     and net non-operating income; and
               (B)   the sum  of  all  expenses  related  to water
                     supply  and   sewerage   services  operations
                     including       administration,      adequate
                     maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in lieu of
                     taxes, but excluding  provision for deprecia-
                     tion, other  non-cash  operating  charges and
                     interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)   water supply  and  sewerage services revenues
                     from all sources other  than those related to
                     operations; and
               (B)   expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments in
                     lieu of taxes, incurred  in the generation of
                     revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.04. NCC  shall  employ  consultants  to carry out a
valuation of WSD's gross and  net  fixed  assets by not later than
the end of  FY  1989/1990,  and  annually thereafter revalue WSD's
fixed assets, using methods acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.05. NCC  shall,  until  completion  of the Project,
furnish to  the  Association  for  its  review  and  comments, any
proposal by WSD to  undertake  any additional investment projects,
other than its on-going  and  planned  capital works, estimated to
cost in excess of two million dollars.
     Section  4.06.  NCC  shall  take  such  action  as  shall  be
necessary, to reduce its  water  and  sewerage accounts in arrears
from 243 days as of the  end  of  FY 1986/1987, to 210 days by the
end of FY 1990/1991, to 180  days  by  the end of FY 1991/1992, to
Page  6
150 days by the end of  FY  1992/1993,  to  120 days by the end of
FY 1993/1994, and to 90 days by the end of FY 1994/1995.
     Section 4.07. NCC shall:  (a)  ensure that funds deposited in
the Water Fund shall be  utilized solely for recurrent and capital
expenditures associated with water and sewerage activities; and
     (b)  continue to  repay  its  outstanding  obligations to the
Water Fund with a view to repaying half the outstanding amount due
by June 30, 1992, and the remainder by June 30, 1995.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of NCC  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 21 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
NCC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For NCC:
          Nairobi City Commission
          City Hall
          P.O. Box 30075
          Nairobi, Kenya
Page  7
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                MUNICIPALITY                  22042 City Hall
                Nairobi
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  NCC,  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Secretary/Town Clerk  or  such  other  person  or  persons  as the
Secretary/Town Clerk shall  designate  in  writing,  and NCC shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Michael Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    NAIROBI CITY COMMISSION
                    By /s/ Richard Okwaro
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the  works  included  in  Parts  A  and  B of the
Project shall be prequalified  as  described  in paragraph 2.10 of
the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described  in  Part  A.1  hereof,  Kenya  may  grant  a  margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles and  equipment  estimated to cost less
Page  8
than the equivalent of $200,000  each  may be awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated  to  cost less than the equiva-
lent of $20,000 each  may  be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist NCC in carrying out the Project, NCC shall
employ   specialists   and   consultants   whose   qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.   WSD  shall  be  responsible  for  the  implementation  of the
Project. Within WSD, PIU  shall  be maintained until completion of
the Project, to supervise the day-to-day implementation of Project
activities.
2.   WSD shall annually,  commencing  in  FY 1989/1990 prepare and
furnish to the Association for  its  review and comments, a report
containing  ten-year  financial  projections,  which  shall, inter
alia, contain an analysis of the  impact of the revised tariffs on
water sales by category of customer.
3.   NCC shall undertake  such  actions  as  shall be necessary to
improve the timeliness of payment  and reporting of WSD's expendi-
tures and shall employ, if necessary, consultants to assist WSD in
establishing a  proper  management  information  system. NCC shall
provide training to  support  further  development of its computer
service. All the above activities  shall be undertaken in order to
move WSD towards a system of "self accounting".
Page  9
4.   NCC shall implement  the  staff training program satisfactory
to the Association.
