Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2060 KE
               (Third Nairobi Water Supply Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 15, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2060 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 15,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  by agreements  dated  April  21,  1989,  (the  AfDB Loan
Agreement and the  AfDF  Loan  Agreement), the African Development
Bank and African  Development  Fund,  respectively, have agreed to
make loans (the AfDB Loan  and  AfDF Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $35,200,000 to assist in  financing  part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in the AfDB Loan Agreement and AfDF
Loan Agreement, respectively;
     (C)  by  agreement  dated  May   25,   1989,  (the  EIB  Loan
Agreement), the European Investment Bank  (EIB) has agreed to make
Page  2
a loan (the EIB Loan)  to  the  Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to $18,600,000  to  assist  in financing part of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in the EIB Loan
Agreement;
     (D)  by  agreement  dated  March  18,  1989,  (the  OECF Loan
Agreement), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF)
has agreed to make a loan  (the  OECF  Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent  to $40,000,000 to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the OECF Loan Agreement; and
     (E)  the Project will  be  carried  out  by  the Nairobi City
Commission (NCC) with the  Borrower's  assistance  and, as part of
such assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make  available  to NCC the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and NCC;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and Nairobi City Commission  of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from  time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and  agreements  supplemental  to the Project Agree-
ment;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NCC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (c)  "NCC" means  the  Nairobi  City  Commission appointed by
order of the Minister  of  Local  Government and Physical Planning
under the Local Government Act, Chapter  265 of the Laws of Kenya,
or its successor;
     (d)  "WSD" means the Water and Sewerage Department of NCC;
     (e)  "PIU" means the Project  Implementation Unit within WSD,
charged with the implementation of this Project; and
     (f)  "FY" means NCC's fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending
June 30 of the following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
Page  3
equivalent to  forty-nine  million  one  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,100,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of  the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for  expenditures  made  (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing  October  1,  1999,  and  ending  April  1,  2024. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2009,  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
Page  4
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement shall cause NCC to  perform  in accordance with the pro-
visions of  the  Project  Agreement  all  the  obligations  of NCC
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to  enable NCC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to
NCC under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and NCC, under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall provide, inter alia,
that the proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be on-lent at an interest
rate of at least 7.65% per annum, for a term of 21 years including
a grace period not exceeding six years.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  shall  be  carried out by NCC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  by June 30, 1991, reimburse
NCC, for the costs  of  land acquisition and compensation payments
associated with the implementation of the Project.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall  take all necessary steps to
enable NCC to meet the rate of return provided for in Section 4.02
of the Project Agreement.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  agree with the Association
and NCC on  a  plan  of  action,  for  resolving the qualification
Page  5
regarding non-payment of foreign and local loans on NCC's 1984 and
subsequent audit reports.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  NCC shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  NCC  will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Government Act,  Chapter  265  of  the Laws of Kenya
shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect  materially  and  adversely  the ability of NCC to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NCC or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)   The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
                     the financing of the  Project shall have been
                     suspended, cancelled  or  terminated in whole
                     or in  part,  pursuant  to  the  terms of the
                     agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)   any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due and
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation, termination or maturing is not caused
               by the failure of  the  Borrower  to perform any of
               its   obligations   under   such   agreement;   and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the  events   specified   in   paragraph   (e)(i)(B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (e)(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
Page  6
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NCC; and
     (b)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
OECF Loan, the EIB Loan, the  AfDB  Loan and AfDF Loan, other than
the effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by NCC, and  is  legally  binding  upon NCC in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  NCC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NCC in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for Finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINANCE                          22921 MINFINKE
               Nairobi                          Nairobi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                    By /s/ Richard Okwaro
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Michael Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
     (a)  Extension           7,130,000          100% of foreign
          of Water                               expenditures and
          Treatment                              30% of local
          Plant under                            expenditures
          Part A.2 (i) of
          the Project
          and Construction
          of Treated
          Water Reser-
          voirs under
          Part A.2 (iii)
          of the Project
     (b)  Rehabilitation      7,600,000          100% of foreign
          and Extension                          expenditures and
          of Dandora                             30% of local
          Sewerage                               expenditures
          Treatment
          Plant under
          Part B.1 of
          the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(2)  Supply and Con-
     struction of:
     (a)  Distribution        8,720,000          100% of foreign
          system exten-                          expenditures and
          sion under                             30% of local
          Part A.2 (iii)                         expenditures
          of the Project
     (b)  In-filling            230,000          100% of foreign
Page  8
          mains, public                          expenditures and
          waterpoints and                        70% of local
          Improvement to                         expenditures
          sanitation
          facilities
          under Part C.2
          of the Project
(3)  Supply and
     Installation of:
     (a)  Electrical          7,580,000          100% of foreign
          and mechani-                           expenditures and
          cal equipment                          30% of local
          for Gigiri                             expenditures
          Pumping Station
          under Part A.2 (iii)
          of the Project
          and for exten-
          sion of the
          Water Treatment
          Plant under
          Part A.2 (i) of
          the Project
     (b)  Instrumenta-        1,440,000          100%
          tion, Control
          and Automa-
          tion under
          Part A.2 (iv)
          of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (c)  Electrical          2,580,000          100% of foreign
          and Mechanical                         expenditures and
          Equipment for                          30% of local
          extension of                           expenditures
          Dandora
          Sewege
          Treatment
          Plant under
          Part B.1 of
          the Project
(4)  Supply of:
     (a)  Vehicles,             380,000          100% of foreign
          Water Meters                           expenditures and
          and other                              70% of local
          Equipment                              expenditures
          under Parts C.1
          and E.4 of
          the Project
     (b)  Training              230,000          100% of foreign
          Equipment                              expenditures and
          and Materials                          90% of local
          and Office                             expenditures
          Technology
          Equipment
          under Part E.2
          (ii) and (iv)
          of the Project
(5)  Consultants' and         7,960,000          100% of foreign
     advisory services                           and 60% of
     under Parts D and E                         local expen-
Page  9
     of the Project                              ditures
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Training under             380,000          100%
     Part E.2 (iii)
     of the Project
(7)  Management                 230,000          100%
     Staff Support
     (salaries and
     benefits) under
     Part E.1 of
     the Project
(8)  Unallocated              4,640,000
                            ___________
     TOTAL                   49,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000,
may be made in respect  of  Categories  (1)  and (5) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1,
1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives the Project are to: (i) augment and secure the
water supply to Nairobi  up  to  the  year  2005; (ii) improve the
basic needs provision  and  health  conditions  of the urban poor;
(iii)  maintain  sanitation  standards  in  Nairobi  and  decrease
pollution  in  the  recipient  rivers;  and  (iv)  provide further
institutional strengthening of NCC/WSD.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water Supply
1.   Source Works
          (i)  Construction of a  new  dam  on  the Thika River at
               Ndakaini.
         (ii)  Construction of  access  roads,  raw water intakes,
               transmission tunnels and main.
2.   Water Treatment, Delivery and Distribution System
Page  10
          (i)  Extension of the water treatment plant at Ngethu to
               increase its total capacity  to about 460,000 cubic
               meters per day.
         (ii)  Construction  of  treated  water  transmission main
               from  Ngethu  to  the  Kiambu  and  Gigiri terminal
               reservoirs.
        (iii)  Extensions to  the  distribution  system, including
               additional reservoirs and  the  construction of the
               Gigiri pumping station.
         (iv)  Instrumentation, control and automation.
          (v)  Construction of staff housing and offices.
Part B:   Sewage Treatment Plant Extension
1.   Rehabilitation and extension of  the Dandora Sewage Treatment
Plant to a total capacity of about 90,000 cubic meters per day dry
weather flow.
2.   Construction of staff housing, offices and amenity buildings.
Part C:   Improvement of Water  Supply  and Waste Disposal Facili-
          ties in Low Income Residential Areas
1.   Provision of vehicles, water  meters and miscellaneous equip-
ment.
2.   Construction of infilling  mains,  public water points, water
selling kiosks and the improvements to sanitation facilities.
Part D:   Engineering and Construction Supervision
1.   Provision of  consultancy  services  for detailed engineering
designs of the civil works for  the water treatment plant, and the
Gigiri Pumping  Station,  construction  supervision  for water and
sewerage works and for the Dam and Tunnel Safety Panel.
2.   Provision   of   consultancy   services   for   updating  and
preparation of a Sewage and Sanitation Master Plan.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training for NCC/WSD
1.   Provision of management staff support to NCC/WSD.
2.   Implementation of a training program for NCC/WSD, through the
provision of:  (i)  training  consultancy  services; (ii) training
materials and equipment; (iii) technical, financial and managerial
courses in Kenya and abroad; and (iv) office technology equipment.
3.   Implementation of  an  appropriate  "self  accounting" system
including  asset  valuation  for  WSD  through  the  provision  of
technical assistance, equipment and materials.
4.   Implementation of an environmental action program through the
provision of technical assistance and equipment.
                         *   *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
