                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28781




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-39650)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                                 FOR A

                             GHAZI BAROTHA HYDROPOWER PROJECT




                                              June 22, 2004




Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
                             Rs 1 = US$ 0.0175
                          US$ 1 = Rs 57.395
                             Rs 1 = 100 Paisas

                        FISCAL YEAR
                     July 1    ­    June 30

                WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

 1 megavolt ampere (MVA)       =      1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
        1 megawatt (MW)         =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DRB         ­       Dispute Review Board
ERRP        ­       Environmental and Resettlement Review Panel
GBTI        ­       Ghazi Barotha Taraqiati Idara
GOP         ­       Government of Pakistan
Hubco       ­       Hub Power Project
IAEA        ­       International Atomic Energy Agency
ICB         ­       International Competitive Bidding
ICSID       ­       International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IPP         ­       Independent Power Project
IPPs        ­       Independent Power Producers
IRDP        ­       Integrated Rural Development Plan
JBIC        ­       Japan Bank for International Cooperation
LVCs        ­       Land Valuation Committees
M&E         ­       Mechanical and Electrical
NAB         ­       National Accountability Bureau
NEPRA       ­       National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
NTDC        ­       National Transmission and Dispatch Company
O&M         ­       Operations and Maintenance
OECF        ­       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
POE         ­       Panel of Experts
PRO         ­       Project Resettlement Organization
RAP         ­       Resettlement Action Plan
SAR         ­       Staff Appraisal Report
SES         ­       Supplementary Environmental and Social Study
TOC         ­       Taking Over Certificate
WAPDA       ­       Water and Power Development Authority
WEC         ­       WAPDA Environment Cell


                Vice President:       Praful C. Patel
              Country Director:       John W. Wall
               Sector Manager:        Penelope J. Brook
             Task Team Leader:        Rashid Aziz

                                          PAKISTAN

                     GHAZI BAROTHA HYDROPOWER PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Annex 8. Maps IBRD 25106, IBRD 25107                                             54

Project ID: P039281                                                  Project Name: Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project
Team Leader: Rashid Aziz                                             TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-39650
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P); Climate change (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/18/1993                                     Effective: 06/08/1996                06/27/1996
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR: 12/16/1998                  12/16/1998
      Approval: 12/19/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 10/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOP/WAPDA
                      Other Partners:      Asian Development Bank (ADB); Japan Bank for International Cooperation
                                           (JBIC); Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW); Islamic Development Bank (IDB);
                                           and European Investment Bank (EIB)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph D. Wood
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                   Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Manager:                 Penelope J. Brook                              Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:             Rashid Aziz
ICR Primary Author:             Rashid Aziz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1      The Development Objectives of the project were to assist the Government of Pakistan (GOP) in
              its efforts to:

           1) Develop domestic energy resources and reduce load-shedding in a cost effective and
               environmentally sustainable manner, thereby supporting the country's long-term energy
               development objectives;

           2) Reinforce and complement the reform program for the power sector;

           3) Strengthen WAPDA's capability to address environmental and resettlement issues related to
               hydropower projects; and

           4) Further rationalize the use of electricity.

3.1.2      The Development Objectives (DOs) of the Project were realistic, both in terms of acknowledging
the key constraints to be addressed, and the outcomes to be achieved by the Project. Pakistan experienced a
severe shortage of power generating capacity during much of the 1980s and 1990s, and load-shedding of up
to 25% of peak demand was required, to offset the shortfall. The physical component of the Project - i.e.
construction of the 1450 MW Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project (GBHP) - was a key element of the
Government's long-term plan to address the shortfall in generating capacity, develop domestic energy
resources, and provide low cost electricity to the grid. Since the 1960s, the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) had executed a number of large and complex hydropower projects, and its technical
capacity to undertake such investments had been well established. This component was therefore
appropriately targeted towards addressing the shortage of generation capacity.

3.1.3      The Project was prepared concurrently with Government plans to restructure the power sector.
The major implication of the restructuring program for this Project was the need to separate the
responsibility for developing Pakistan's water and hydropower resources from WAPDA's power utility
functions. While agreement was reached to establish a separate Entity for managing this Project,
ultimately (given the need for close coordination in the operations of GBHP and Tarbela) it was decided
that the development and operation of all large hydropower projects will remain with WAPDA.

3.1.4      During the 1980s the resettlement impacts of hydropower projects had assumed a high profile in
Pakistan, and generated considerable public debate and controversy, particularly in the context of the
Kalabagh project, which was being prepared at that time. Strengthening WAPDA's capacity to manage the
environmental and social impacts of hydropower projects was therefore critical for the success of such
projects. The Project's Environmental and Resettlement Management Plan included specific actions to: (a)
provide top-of-the-line expertise to WAPDA, and train WAPDA's staff; (b) develop participatory and
transparent procedures for addressing social concerns; (c) evaluate various alternatives, to minimize the
environmental and social impacts of the Project; and (d) earmark resources for income generation activities
in the Project area. In addition, a comprehensive set of monitoring arrangements was included in the
Project. This component was designed to build on WAPDA's existing capacities, and to provide additional
expertise in areas where in-house capacity was felt to be inadequate.

3.1.5      Actions to moderate the growth in demand, through tariff and non-tariff measures to rationalize
electricity consumption, also needed to be accorded a high priority. However, this DO was not fully
defined at the appraisal stage, and no specific components (or activities) were identified as the means for
rationalizing electricity use.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

              Same as above.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1      The original Project components were:

           Construction of the Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project (GBHP), involving:

                A barrage and ancillary works, located about 7 kms downstream of the Tarbela Dam, to
                    divert water from the Indus River into a power channel;
                A 52 km long concrete-lined power channel, with a capacity of 1,600 cumecs, to
                    transmit the water to a power complex;
                A power complex, located at the confluence of the Indus and Haro Rivers, with an
                    installed generating capacity of 1,450 MW, comprising 5 units each of 290 MW; and
                Transmission facilities to connect the power house to WAPDA's 500 kV grid, involving
                    two 500 kV transmission lines of 100 kms between Barotha and Rewat, and about 150
                    kms of loop in-and-out of existing 500 kV lines between Tarbela and Gatti.

           An Environmental and Resettlement Management Plan, which included:

                An Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan;
                A Resettlement Action Plan, involving land acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation
                    for project affected people; and
                An Integrated Rural Development Plan, to address project induced impacts and promote
                    long-term sustainable development in the Project area.

           A Power Sector Reform Component, involving:

                Setting up GBHP as a separate project entity; and
                Establishing a separate transmission and despatch entity.

           A Technical Assistance Component, to assist WAPDA in:

                engineering design, procurement and construction supervision;
                continued participation of two Panels of Experts (POEs), one for technical aspects, and
                    one for environmental and social (resettlement) issues; and
                managing and monitoring the implementation of the other components of the Project.

3.3.2      The Project was prepared (in terms of feasibility study, detailed design, and preparation of
bidding documents) through a UNDP funded assignment, with the Bank as executing agency. A consultant
team (a joint-venture of Binnie and Partners from UK, Harza Engineering from USA, Ewbank Preece from
UK, and NESPAK and Associated Consulting Engineers, both from Pakistan) was selected by the Bank,
for conducting the feasibility and design studies. The Project Document was signed in 1989, and the
feasibility study (including a draft Resettlement Action Plan - RAP) was conducted during FY1990-92.
Despite significant disruptions in the work schedule (arising from the first Gulf war) and major changes in
the scope of work (e.g. the addition of 2 Headponds, to maximize power generation during low water
months), the feasibility study was completed well in time, and was deemed by the Bank to be fully
acceptable for its preparation and appraisal of the Project.



                                                     - 3 -

3.3.3       The Project included a number of features that were departures from normal project preparation
requirements, but were considered to be consistent with best practice approaches (which were evolving at
that time) for preparing hydropower projects. Specifically:
             An independent Environment and Resettlement Review Panel of Experts (ERRP) - in
                addition to a POE on technical aspects - was appointed during the feasibility and design
                stage. GBHP was the first example of a Bank financed hydropower project where an
                environmental and social Panel of Experts was associated, from the feasibility study stage till
                the completion of the Project.

             Environmental and social impacts were incorporated in the design of all components. This
                included, e.g., review of alternate locations for the barrage and power house, and selection of
                sites that involved the least impacts on existing villages and settlements. In fact, the project
                was originally called Ghazi Gariala Hydropower Project, as one potential site for the power
                house was close to Gariala village. When the final site was selected at Barotha village, and
                at the request of residents of Barotha, the name of the Project was changed to Ghazi Barotha
                Hydropower Project. Similarly, the power channel alignment was adopted after reviewing
                options to avoid all towns, villages, graves and other cultural properties - even though it
                enhanced the length of the channel, relative to the most direct route.

             An innovative process (consistent with the Land Acquisition Act) was proposed in the RAP,
                and was adopted, for the valuation of land and other assets to be acquired for the Project.
                This involved the active participation - through Land Valuation Committees (LVCs) - of
                affectees, along with officials from WAPDA and the Revenue Department(s), in determining
                the value of land and other assets which were to be acquired for the Project.

             Under GBHP, the Government agreed to implement a program to address the outstanding
                compensation issues related to the Tarbela Dam Project--which was constructed in the
                1960s and 1970s. While such retrofit of "past legacy" issues is highly recommended by the
                World Commission on Dams (see Dams and Development: A new Framework for
                Decision-Making; World Commission on Dams, November 2000), it was an innovative
                feature of GBHP for which there was little or no prior experience or precedent.

             For Project implementation, a fairly rigorous regime was adopted for ensuring compliance
                with agreed safeguards. This involved a three-pronged monitoring and management plan,
                including reviews by WAPDA's Environment Cell and other Units, inputs by the supervision
                consultants and specialized consultant support to WAPDA, and periodic reviews by the
                ERRP, which provided oversight and assessment on all project components.

3.3.4       The Project components were appropriate in terms of the requirements of a large and complex
hydropower project. However, in view of the implementation experience on many of these components
(see, e.g., Section 5 below), the ICR mission is of the view that the program which was adopted for
mitigating the environmental and social impacts of the Project proved particularly challenging for the
Government and WAPDA. While some additional and focussed support from the Bank (e.g. to manage the
construction of the spoil banks) could have facilitated early resolution of a few issues, for others - e.g. the
public consultation/LVC process adopted for land valuation and compensation - there was essentially no
precedent or best practice example which the Bank could have brought to the attention of the Government
or WAPDA.




                                                       - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1     There was no change in the Project components, except for the transmission facilities required
for the evacuation of GBHP power. Load flow studies carried out by WAPDA identified the need for the
following additional lines/sub-stations:

           a 500 kV transmission link between Rewat and Lahore, along with extensions of the
               (existing) Rewat and Lahore sub-stations;
           a new 500 kV sub-station at Gakhar; and
           a 220 kV transmission line linking the power house (Barotha) to Nowshehra.

3.4.2     These transmission system extensions are being financed and constructed by WAPDA under a
separate Project--Transmission Arrangements for Dispersal of Ghazi Barotha Power.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1     A Quality of Supervision review of the Project was carried out - jointly with a number of other
projects in South Asia - by a Panel constituted by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in FY98.
For GBHP, the Panel also reviewed Quality at Entry aspects (on a post-approval basis). The Panel's
conclusions and ratings for GBHP were positive: the Panel rated the (overall) Quality at Entry and Quality
of Supervision of GBHP as Satisfactory. In fact, for Quality at Entry, the Panel considered GBHP to be
better than fully satisfactory. The Panel's detailed comments on this aspect were:

          "...The Panel considers the quality at entry, in summary, as fully satisfactory and partly better;
          in fact, project development and preparation exhibit in some respect best practice features. It
          reflects the full panoply of environmental, social / resettlement and sector restructuring /
          privatization policies. It was firmly embedded in a sector-wide approach, well coordinated with
          the accompanying Power Sector Development Project (PSDP) and based on good knowledge of
          the executing agency, WAPDA. The project did not only bring together a number of important
          multilateral and bilateral donors for cofinancing, but also gained from their accumulated know
          how, and, through synchronization of their policies towards the power sector, enhanced the
          combined leverage with the government.

          The Panel noticed best some best practice approaches in the way the complexity of the project
          was dealt with, appropriate alternative solutions were considered, and the way relevant
          experiences from the past entered the project design. Perhaps most outstanding are the
          identification of, and communication with key stakeholders, in conjunction with resettlement
          issues, which also were handled in an exemplary way. Fully satisfactory were the analysis of the
          institutional framework, the broad range of experts deployed, the inclusion of a strong project
          management team with outside support and the readiness of procurement decisions prior to
          implementation. Risk and sensitivity analyses were extensive, too, but missed out one area which
          turned critical, soon after inception.

          One major weak spot was the oversight of political currents adverse to reform, the strength of it
          seems to have caught everybody by surprise when a new government with more populist power
          policies gained power. Another development which should not have escaped Bank's attention was
          the financial impact on WAPDA of the purchases from the Hub River Project, together with the
          surge in fuel prices. Both developments have led to the current financial crunch of WAPDA
          which imperils the time table of the project....".




                                                      - 5 -

3.5.2      The ICR mission agrees with the Panel's ratings. As stated in Section 3.3, the ICR mission
found the "design" aspects of GBHP - particularly the processes for handling environmental, social and
resettlement issues - to be very comprehensive and participatory. The ICR mission also agrees with the
observation regarding the somewhat weak recognition of the political support (or lack of it) for the
restructuring and reform program, and of the substantial escalation in WAPDA's operating costs due to
power purchases from IPPs and the increase in fuel prices - and their impact on WAPDA's financial
situation. These aspects are discussed in more detail in Section 5 below.

3.5.3      The Panel's findings and ratings for Quality of Supervision are discussed in Sections 5 and 7
below, since these ratings relate primarily to factors which affected project implementation, and Bank and
Borrower/Implementing Agency performance, in addressing issues and constraints as they emerged during
implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1      The Development Objectives (DOs) of the Project have been largely achieved. Specifically:

            The Project has assisted in developing an indigenous renewable energy resource and produce
               electricity at a very competitive price (about US 1.7 cents/kwh over the life of the Project,
               compared to average generation costs of over US 6 cents/kwh). Load shedding was largely
               eliminated, due to capacity additions in the late 1990s. Between June 1996 and end-2000,
               about 4,830 MW of thermal generating capacity was installed by the private sector (through
               fuel oil or gas fired plants). These additions were adequate for overcoming the prevailing
               severe shortage of generating capacity, and for meeting the growth in electricity demand in
               the intervening period. The additional capacity provided by GBHP will cater for the
               projected growth in electricity demand for the next few years. The ICR mission therefore
               rates the achievement of this DO as Fully Satisfactory.

            The project was designed and implemented in the context of the power sector reform
               program, which involved, inter alia, the unbundling of WAPDA into independent entities
               responsible for generation, transmission and distribution. While the reform program has
               been under implementation for a number of years now, the unbundling of WAPDA has still
               not been completed. The (revised) target date for achieving this milestone is end-June 2004.
               For GBHP, the main implication of the unbundling was the need to separate WAPDA's hydel
               generation functions from its power utility operations. GBHP is being implemented (and will
               be operated) by the Hydel wing of WAPDA, which is responsible for the integrated
               development of Pakistan's water and hydropower resources. It will sell electricity under a
               bulk-sale agreement to the transmission entity (the National Transmission and Dispatch
               Company - NTDC), and the bulk sale price for the sale of power from WAPDA's
               hydropower units to NTDC has been determined by the regulator - the National Electric
               Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA). The ICR mission rates the achievement of this DO
               as Satisfactory.

            The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) provided a comprehensive framework for handling
               environmental/social issues in hydropower projects. Despite a number of problems,
               including delays in completing some components, and the difficulties in land acquisition
               during the initial years, the Bank has been satisfied that the RAP is being fully implemented.
               Full implementation of the RAP has not only ensured that adverse impacts of the Project on



                                                      - 6 -

               the environment, loss of income, assets or livelihoods, are adequately mitigated, it has also
               enhanced WAPDA's capacity to prepare and implement hydropower projects. For example,
               with the three pronged approach for managing and monitoring environmental and social
               issues, WAPDA gained a wealth of experience in handling social issues which are
               encountered in large hydropower projects. This experience is gradually being put to use by
               the Government and WAPDA, in follow-up projects. For example, for the Mangla Raising
               Project (which primarily seeks to enhance the storage capacity of the Mangla reservoir, but
               can also provide 200 MW of new generation capacity), the Government and WAPDA
               adopted the approach which was pioneered under GBHP - of closely involving affectees
               while preparing the compensation package which will be part of the Resettlement and
               Rehabilitation component of that Project. Therefore, the ICR mission rates the acheivement
               of this DO as Satisfactory.

            Progress in achieving the final DO - rationalizing the use of electricity - was limited. This is
               partly because no specific components or activities were prepared or identified at appraisal,
               specifically for achieving this DO. This DO was more of a generalized statement about the
               needs to address the financial situation of WAPDA, which includes operational inefficiencies
               (high technical and non-technical losses), governance issues (including high levels of
               receivables), and the need to raise tariffs (over time) towards cost covering levels. The
               dialogue between the Government/WAPDA and the Bank on WAPDA's finances was
               handled primarily through the macro-economic and structural reform program - which was
               supported through Structural Adjustment Loans and Credits. A number of efforts were
               made by the Government, WAPDA and the Bank (e.g. a Financial Restructuring Plan was
               implemented in 1999-2000, a Financial Improvement Plan was adopted in mid-2002), to
               improve WAPDA's finances. However, for various reasons, these plans were not fully
               implemented. As discussed in Section 5.2 of the ICR, WAPDA's financial position remained
               adverse through much of the Project life, and this impacted adversely on Project
               implementation, at various times. Therefore, this DO was not achieved, and the ICR mission
               rates this outcome as Unsatisfactory.

4.1.2      The final estimated cost of the Project (about US$2,068 million, at April 2003 prices, including
contingencies and interest during construction) is slightly lower than the appraisal estimate (US$2,250
million). This estimate does not include claims submitted by the contractors (see para 5.3.1), which are
being reviewed in accordance with mechanisms set out in the contracts. Nevertheless, completion of a large
hydropower project at a cost that is close to appraisal estimates is a significant achievement.

4.1.3      The distribution of Project costs between various components did, however, vary significantly
compared to appraisal estimates. As shown in Table 2 (see Section 5.4 below), the final cost of land
acquisition and resettlement was more than three times the appraisal estimate (about US$117 million
compared to US$37 million), and the requirement for interest during construction was about 17% larger
than estimated (US$451 million, compared to US$386 million). By comparison, the cost of the civil works
and mechanical and electrical equipment was substantially lower. The final cost of these components was
about US$825 million, relative to the appraisal estimate of more than US$1,285 million. While some
leeway in the cost estimates can be expected (since the actual quantum of work depends on geological,
hydrological and other conditions, which cannot be anticipated with any level of certainty), the appraisal
estimates of the cost of various components were substantially in excess of the final/actual costs. The
appraisal estimates were, however, reviewed by a number of parties, including the consultants' joint venture
partners, the (technical) POE, WAPDA, and the Bank.




                                                      - 7 -

4.1.4      The actual implementation period was considerably longer than estimated at appraisal. The
Project was to be completed by mid-2001, and the final generating unit was expected to be commissioned in
June 2001. However, due to a number of factors (details are provided in Sections 5.1­5.3 below) the
Project was completed, and the final generating unit was commissioned, in May 2004. The major factor
accounting for the delay in project completion was the delay in land acquisition (see Section 5.2 below). At
the time of appraisal, land acquisition was expected to be completed by end-1995; however, this was not
accomplished till almost four years later.


4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1      The physical components of the Project have now been commissioned, and all five generating
units are in commercial operation. During the first 11 months of FY04, over 4,100 GWh of electricity has
been generated from the Project; this is around 16.5% of total hydropower generation, and about 7.8% of
total electricity generation in the WAPDA system, for the same period.

4.2.2      A Taking Over Certificate (TOC) for "Works Essential for Impounding" was issued under
Contract C-01 (Barrage) on June 16, 2003, and the TOC (excluding six items) for "Works not Essential for
Impounding" was issued in November 2003 - effective from August 22, 2003. Impounding of the Barrage
pond commenced in February 2003, and the maximum level was reached on May 20, 2003. For Contract
C-02 (Power Channel) the TOC for "Works Essential for Impounding" was issued on August 9, 2003 -
effective from July 30, 2003. Impounding of the Power Channel commenced on April 9, 2003. Under
Contract C-03 (Power Complex), most of the work - including the powerhouse, installation and testing of
turbines, generators, and other mechanical and electrical (M&E) equipment - has been completed.
Impounding of the Forebay and South Head-pond was started in April 2003, simultaneously with the
impounding of the Channel. The Tailrace Channel was flooded on April 18, 2003, and its downstream
cofferdam was removed.

4.2.3      Units 1 and 2 were commissioned during the summer of 2003, and the Project was formally
inaugurated on August 19, 2003. Reliability runs for these units were completed, and these units started
commercial operation, on August 28, 2003, and September 18, 2003, respectively. For Unit 3, wet testing
was initiated in September and completed in October 2003, and the unit was put into commercial operation
on November 20, 2003. These units have been in commercial operation since that time, and were generally
operated close to full load, till the reduction in water availability in mid-December 2003. For Unit 4, the
first mechanical run was conducted on December 3, 2003; reliability runs were initiated in mid-December
and completed in January 2004; and this unit started commercial operation on January 18, 2004.
Commissioning tests and reliability runs on the final unit (Unit 5) were initiated in April 2004, and the unit
was formally commissioned and started commercial operation on May 14, 2004. Progress on other M&E
equipment contracts has been commensurate with the pace of work on the turbines/generators.

4.2.4      The 500 kV Tarbela-Gatti lines (In and Out arrangements) were completed by end-February,
2003, and were fully operational during the testing and commissioning of various units. As regards the 500
kV Barotha-Rewat lines, the supply of towers, conductor, insulators and hardware, and accessories has
been completed. However, the pace of construction of these lines was slower than planned, and physical
progress of the construction work was only 48% as of end-December 2003. Completion of these two lines
by end-June 2004 is essential for ensuring the full evacuation of GBHP power, and this contract remains on
the critical path.




                                                       - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1      In the feasibility report several options for the project were considered, but the economic and
financial analysis was conducted/reported for only one option, involving an installed capacity of 1,425
MW; a 1600 cumecs power channel; head pond of 15 million cubic meters; and average annual generation
of 7,583 GWh. By comparison, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) defines the Project as: installed capacity
of 1,425 MW; a power channel capacity of 1600 cumecs, and head pond of 25 million cubic meters, and
average annual generation of 6,607 GWh. The Project (as constructed) involved the same installed
capacity, power channel and head pond configuration, and annual generation, as the SAR. The economic
and financial analysis for the ICR was therefore based on the parameters defined in the SAR, and the actual
cost (based on April 2003 prices) of the Project. The results--including a comparison with the Feasibility
Study and SAR estimates--are presented in Table 1.

4.3.2      In addition to these rate of return computations, an ex-post analysis to confirm that GBHP
remains part of the least cost expansion plan for the power sector (specifically of the WAPDA system) was
carried out for this ICR. This involved using the Wien Automatic System Planning Package (WASP), a
simulation tool developed by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and used by a large number of
utilities worldwide to develop and optimize their generation expansion plans on a least-cost basis.

                             Table 1: Summary Economic and Financial Analysis

  No:                                            Feasibility Report        Staff             Actual Project
                                                                      Appraisal Report      (as constructed)
  1.      Capacity (MW)                                  1,425               1,425                  1,425

  2.      Annual Energy (GWh)                            7,583               6,607                  6,607

  3.      Project Cost (US$ million)
  3.a        Land Cost                                      39                  37                    116
  3.b        Other Cost (including                       1,872               1,803                  1,412
                contingencies)
  3.c        Duties and Taxes                                                   24                     88
  3.d        Interest During Construction                                      386                    451
  3.e        Total Financial Cost                        1,912               2,250                  2,068
  3.f        Project Economic Costs                      1,751               1,686                  1,320

  4.      Construction Start Date                     1992/93              1994/95                1994/95

  5.      Commissioning Date                          1997/98              2001/02                2003/04

  6.      Construction Period (Years)                        6                   8                      9
          Economic and Financial Indicators

          Economic Rate of Return                     22.25%                 19.92%               22.48%

          Benefit/Cost Ratio at 10% Discount              2.78                  2.44                 2.93
          Rate

          Financial Rate of Return (w/o Duties        15.67%                 13.87%               15.56%
          and Taxes

          Financial Rate of Return (with Duties       14.90%                 13.76%               15.13%
          and Taxes)

          Financial Rate of Return (including                                12.66%               13.47%
          Duties and Taxes and IDC)




                                                       - 9 -

4.3.3      The following three cases were studied to determine whether GBHP - with its actual costs,
construction and completion dates - is part of the least cost expansion plan for the sector:

            A low-demand forecast scenario, involving only the Hub Power Project (Hubco) to be
               developed as an Independent Power Project (IPP)
            A low-demand forecast scenario, with Hubco and 11 new IPPs with a total installed capacity
               of 3,793 MW to be implemented during the construction period of GBHP
            A high-demand forecast scenario, with Hubco and 11 new IPPs with a total installed
               capacity of 3,793 MW, included in the committed system.

           Other assumptions e.g. regarding the load duration curve, fixed system, candidate options, costs
and generation characteristics, and discount rate were kept the same as the SAR. The cost and construction
schedule of GBHP was modified to conform with the actual year wise expenditure on the project. Based on
these assumptions, GBHP was selected for completion by 2003/04 in all WASP scenarios, thereby
confirming that GBHP - with its revised cost, construction schedule, and with the additional capacity
installed through IPPs--remains part of the least cost system expansion plan for WAPDA.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

           See Section 4.3 above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1      The Project provided WAPDA and the Government an opportunity for dialogue with a number
of key stakeholders - e.g. local communities and affectees - who were not extensively consulted during the
preparation and execution of hydropower projects in the past. This interaction has provided valuable
insights and lessons to both parties. These experiences and lessons are gradually being adopted, in
preparing new hydropower projects.

4.5.2      Given the close proximity of the GBHP barrage to the Tarbela reservoir, WAPDA has
established a new office, to manage for operations of the External Works of Tarbela, and the barrage (see
Section 6.2). This will not only promote more efficient use of WAPDA's human and technical resources, it
will also ensure better coordination between the operations of Tarbela and GBHP.

4.5.3      Overall, the Project has contributed positively towards enhancing WAPDA's capacity to
implement and manage large hydropower projects - though the concerns relating to the financial situation of
WAPDA (of the power sector in general) were not fully addressed.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1      Project implementation was affected by a number of events, some of which could not be
anticipated. These include a delay in the award of one civil works contract (since the original request for
bids did not comply with donor requirements); and the events of September 11, 2001--which led to a
cessation of work by the contractors, and a full year's delay in Project completion.

5.1.2      The first issue arose even before the Bank's appraisal of the Project. Procurement documents for
three civil works contracts were submitted to, and cleared by, the World Bank - on the understanding that
compliance with Bank procurement guidelines could be acceptable to other financiers. However, the



                                                     - 10 -

contract for the power house (Contract C-03) was financed by Japan Bank for International Cooperation
(JBIC--formerly Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, OECF). JBIC (OECF) guidelines require the
procurement documents to be cleared by JBIC before they are issued. Since this was not done, JBIC was
not not able to provide funding, unless the contract was re-bid. The rebidding, following JBIC/OECF
approval of the bidding documents, meant that the award of this contract was almost 12 months after the
award of the other two civil works contracts--and there was a serious risk (in the early years) that the
power house may not be completed till well after the other project facilities had been completed. This
ultimately proved to be a non-issue, given the delays experienced under the other contracts.

5.1.3      Work on the project was also severely impacted by the events of September 11, 2001 in the U.S.
Given the enhanced security risks worldwide--as also in Pakistan, particularly after the war in Afghanistan
--most of the contractors working on the Project evacuated their personnel from Pakistan in late 2001, and
work on the Project essentially stopped for the next 6-8 months. For example, the civil works contractors
for the barrage and power channel resumed work only in April-2002--following a Supplementary
Agreement between WAPDA and the contractors. While the calendar duration of this stoppage was about
8 months, in fact it led to a full year's delay in project completion, since (even after the work had resumed)
the next few months were the high flow season in the Indus, and it was not possible to work at full speed at
the barrage, till the high water flows had passed--i.e. till about October 2002. This was clearly an event
over which no party had any control.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1      Other factors affecting Project Implementation, which the Government has some leverage over,
included the Government's inability to move aggressively to resolve the outstanding compensation issues on
Tarbela, and to address the deterioration in WAPDA's finances. Finally, the Government did not take
adequate up front actions to head-off the controversies that arose following an investigation into the causes
and consequences of the substantial escalation in land prices.

5.2.2      One effectiveness condition was that "..(the Government would carry out) a survey .. to
determine the status of outstanding claims of persons affected by the Tarbela Dam, .. and an action plan
would be agreed with the Bank, to settle those claims and to redress the legitimate grievances arising from
those claims..". The Government, through WAPDA, engaged a consultant to ascertain the number of
claimants and the status of their claims. The consultant's report was submitted in time; however, the
Government and WAPDA did not endorse the consultant's proposed methodology (i.e. to provide cash in
lieu of land--which was the Government's original offer) for paying this compensation. While the Bank
accepted the consultant's report as meeting the effectiveness condition, the risk that there would be further
discussion and debate over the means of compensation had been enhanced. By end-1997, the Government
(and WAPDA) raised this issue again, and proposed a fresh survey--to confirm the number of legitimate
claimants, and verify their entitlements and claims. A special commission was established by the
Government for this purpose. The commission's report, submitted in June 1999, recommended that (as per
the original announcement) land be provided to these claimants--a second group of people were to receive
residential plots, for residential properties which were acquired for Tarbela. Since the issue originally
arose (in part) because one province did not provide sufficient land for compensating all affectees, the
commission's recommendation opened up another avenue for delay. The Government requested the
provinces to allocate land, which the provinces had been unable to do in the first place. Finally, the
Government decided to compensate these affectees in cash, and announced the amounts which the
Federal/Provincial Governments and WAPDA had to provide for this purpose. All parties deposited their
shares in mid-2003, and the compensation payments were largely completed by end-2003. For the second



                                                       - 11 -

group of 225 affectees (who were to receive residential plots) the compensation has still not been provided.
While the land has been acquired, a dispute has arisen recently over the number of persons who are entitled
to receive such plots, and over the status of the acquired land. This group of affectees had therefore not
received their full compensation by the time the Project was completed.

5.2.3      The delays in completion the compensation of the Tarbela affectees was highlighted by the QAG
panel. The Panel also termed the Bank's acceptance of the Government's decision to question the
methodology proposed in the consultant's report (to provide cash, in lieu of land) as a waiver of the
effectiveness condition. Specifically, the Panel noted:

           "..Though there may not be sufficient justification for the decision to require the residual
resettlement issues of Tarbela to be addressed as part of Ghazi Barotha, once this was indeed decided, the
Bank could have used its leverage for an early resolution of this issue. Allowing a waiver to the condition
of effectiveness was a major step in itself; not taking any remedial steps after the Borrower reneged on its
assurance regarding prompt submission of a resettlement plan may have actually contributed to the lack of
subsequent prompt attention by the borrower to this issue...".

5.2.4      The ICR mission agrees with this observation; a stronger signal by the Bank - that, in order to
meet the effectiveness condition, the Government must adopt a compensation mechanism - could have
focussed Government attention on the need to finalize the implementation mechanism at an earlier date.

5.2.5      Another key issue which delayed project implementation was the delay in land acquisition,
particularly during FY96-97. In this period, the outcome of the LVC deliberations was a substantial
escalation in land prices. This was partly a reflection of the affectees' expectations regarding the price they
would like to receive for their assets. There are also reports - documented in Bank aide memoires - of some
political intervention in the LVC deliberations. Nevertheless, due to these high land prices, the process of
land acquisition was essentially stalled for a couple of years. Both WAPDA and the affectees initiated
court proceedings against most of the announced awards. By end 1997, almost 500 such cases had been
registered in the courts. Concurrently, the civil works contractors (rightly) raised claims for idle time, since
WAPDA did not acquire (and provide to the contractor) adequate stretches of land, in a timely manner. By
end-June 1997, for example, only about 20 % of the land required for the power channel had been acquired.
As the contract was signed in December 1995, and the contractor had been on the job for more than 18
months, the lack of adequate land to work with was severely constraining the contractor's ability to work at
full pace. The issue was ultimately resolved through a consultative mechanism. WAPDA requested the
Project NGO (the Ghazi Barotha Taraqiati Idara - GBTI, whose main mandate was to mobilize the
affectees and advocate their interests at various stages of the Project) to prepare estimates of "fair market
value" for various categories of land, and to evolve a consensus among the affectees towards accepting
these estimates. GBTI submitted its report to WAPDA in early 1998. Even though the revised estimate of
land acquisition costs was significantly higher than the appraisal estimate (about Rs 4.5 billion, compared
to Rs 1.8 billion), WAPDA accepted these recommendations, since it was in WAPDA's own interest to
expedite project implementation. Land acquisition proceeded relatively smoothly after that, and there were
no major interruptions or delays in the work on this account, in subsequent years.

5.2.6      The QAG Panel also noted the delays in project implementation due to the delays in land
acquisition. However, since WAPDA's financial situation from FY97 precluded the entity from
implementing a large investment program, the Panel did not feel that the delay in land acquisition was the
only factor responsible for construction delays.




                                                     - 12 -

5.2.7      The deterioration in WAPDA's finances - particularly from FY97 onwards - also impacted
adversely on the Project. Up to FY96, WAPDA's financial performance was largely satisfactory, and it
complied with financial covenants under Bank projects - specifically, it financed 40% of its average
investment program from its own resources. However, by mid-1997, it faced a large increase in operating
costs (due to power purchases from IPPs, which were contracted by the Government under the 1994
Private Power Policy) while its revenues, particularly power tariffs, did not increase in tandem. At
appraisal, implementation of the Government's IPP policy was fairly advanced - the Government had
announced the Policy in early 1994; a large number of proposals for new capacity had been received and
were being evaluated; and the quantum of WAPDA's power purchases in future years could be projected
fairly accurately. These developments were incorporated in the financial analysis carried out at appraisal.
These projections showed that, in order to cover the increased costs, power tariffs needed to rise steeply -
by more than 30% in FY98 (the first year of large power purchases from IPPs). Implementing such a
sharp increase in tariffs was, understandably, a difficult proposition for the Government. Therefore, while
the impact of the IPP program on WAPDA's finances was assessed, the (political) risks entailed in
implementing the required tariff increases was not fully recognised by the Bank and the Government.

5.2.8      Due to the large increase in costs, WAPDA was unable to contribute its agreed share of funding
for the Project - particularly to pay for land acquisition, and to fund the local currency portions of the civil
works contracts. WAPDA therefore formally requested the Bank (through the Economic Affairs Division)
in September 1997 to enhance the percentage of expenditures to be financed from the Loan. This would
provide temporary relief to WAPDA - by reducing its shares of payments for those contracts - while the
Government and WAPDA prepared a comprehensive financial restructuring plan. The Bank agreed with
this request, and through an Amendment to the Loan Agreement dated August 13, 1998, the disbursement
percentage for Contract C-02 was enhanced (retroactively) from 70% to 90%, for expenditures incurred
between June 1996 and September 1999. Simultaneously, work was initiated on the Financial
Restructuring Plan. In evaluating the steps taken by the Government, WAPDA and the Bank to address the
financial constraints, the ICR mission is of the view that all parties acted pro-actively and positively to
develop contingency plans. However, the implementation record is quite unsatisfactory.

5.2.9      A direct result of WAPDA's financing constraints was that WAPDA did not comply with the
financial covenants that were agreed under the Loan; in fact, WAPDA's compliance with the agreed
financial covenants was rated "Unsatisfactory" during most of the implementation period.

5.2.10     The Government and WAPDA (with Bank support) prepared and implemented a Financial
Restructuring Plan in mid-1999 - this included conversion of about Rs 35 billion of WAPDA's outstanding
debt service liabilities to the Government into Government equity in WAPDA. However, other factors
which contributed to the deterioration in WAPDA's finances - including tariff adjustments to compensate
for increases in fuel and power purchase costs, reducing technical and non-technical losses, and improving
WAPDA's collection performance - were not fully implemented. Since the Government was responsible
for notifying adjustments in electricity tariffs, and as owner of WAPDA it could have ensured better
governance of the utility (including compliance with the agreed technical and commercial performance
targets), the onus for this deterioration in WAPDA's financial performance rests first with the Government.
However, this conclusion should not detract from WAPDA's responsibility to ensure compliance with
financial and other performance targets, to which it had agreed.

5.2.11     Another factor, and for the Bank perhaps the most serious issue on this Project, was the
investigations by the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) on the land acquisition process. At the
request of WAPDA, NAB initiated in mid-2001 an investigation into the causes and consequences of the



                                                      - 13 -

substantial escalation in land prices, to determine whether this was due to any illegal acts committed by
officials of WAPDA and/or the land acquisition authorities, or by the beneficiaries/affectees. While the
Bank was provided assurances that NAB was only investigating allegations of corruption in the land
acquisition process, it became apparent that the basis which NAB was using for determining "corruption"
amounted to a negation of the RAP. Specifically, NAB took historical land prices (as per land revenue
records) as an indicator of "fair market value" of the land. The consultative process (involving affectees
through LVCs, or the recommendations of the GBTI committee of 1998) for establishing values for land
and other assets which were to be acquired for the Project was, therefore, not being recognized as legally
valid. The Bank concluded that this amounted to a significant violation of the Legal Agreements. Since
this non-compliance coincided with major delays in implementing other important components of the
Environmental Management Plan, the Bank informed the Government in December 2002 that unless
corrective actions were taken immediately, these violations of the RAP would be adequate grounds for the
Bank to suspend disbursements under the Loan, and ultimately to cancel the Loan.

5.2.12     The Bank's determination of non-compliance with the RAP had two important implications:

            first, if the Bank cancelled its Loan, the Government would have to cover the financing gap
                from its own resources (given the advanced stage of implementation, it was not likely that the
                Government would terminate the Project); and

            second, in the absence of Bank financing, the other donors/financiers could also suspend, or
                cancel, their respective Loans.

5.2.13     This could have created a financing gap which the Government may not have been able to cover.
Notwithstanding these considerations, the Government took strong note of the Bank's views, and actions
were initiated immediately (the Bank was kept fully informed) to address the non-compliance. The Bank
also engaged all its resources to facilitate the Government's efforts - by advising on options which could be
considered for addressing specific concerns, highlighting key decisions that needed to be taken urgently, and
facilitating dialogue between all parties, including the affectees. The Bank agreed with the thrust and
direction of the remedial actions taken by the Government and WAPDA, and informed the Government in
May 2003 that, since the RAP was now being fully complied with, it was no longer proceeding with the
suspension of disbursements or cancellation of the Loan.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1      Physical implementation of the Project was satisfactory, and the works and equipment supply
contracts have been completed to international standards. WAPDA's relations with the civil works
contractors has, however, not been smooth. The main problems were encountered on Contracts C-01 and
C-02 which were awarded to a joint venture of five firms (Ghazi Barotha Contractors--GBC), with
Impregilo S.p.A. from Italy as the lead firm. The major impact of the delays in land acquisition was on
these two contracts. This not only slowed down the pace of work, it also affected GBC's finances, since the
contractors had mobilized their equipment and personnel, but could not proceed at a pace that would
generate adequate cash flow to cover their fixed costs. In an effort to improve the contractors' cash flow,
the parties signed a Supplementary Agreement in March 1998, where WAPDA agreed, inter alia, to
provide additional Advances to the contractors. Over time, GBC also expressed displeasure over the
process for reviewing and approving the contractors' claims, and with the functioning of the Dispute
Review Board (DRB). In fact, GBC indicated its desire to reconstitute the DRB. The evacuation of the
contractors from Pakistan in late 2001 added further urgency to the need to resolve these disputes. The
parties signed another Supplementary Agreement in April 2002, which provided for the resumption of
work, and further advances to GBC; the DRB was also reconstituted under this Agreement. The



                                                      - 14 -

reconstituted DRB held hearings in November 2002 and January 2003 on GBC's claims, and issued its
determinations; however, WAPDA objected to the conduct of the DRB Chairman, and filed a request for
Arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce(the Arbitration forum defined in the contracts)
against these DRB determinations. It also requested that the DRB, Chairman be replaced. Concurrently,
Impregilo has filed a request for Arbitration with the International Center for Settlement of Investment
Disputes (ICSID). While acknowledging that, for projects and contracts of this magnitude, resort to
Arbitration is not unusual (and recognizing that the issues are being processed in accordance with the
contracts) the Bank has highlighted to both sides the benefit of avoiding lengthy legal proceedings, and the
need to reach a mutually acceptable solution as early as possible.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1      Table 2 provides the original (appraisal) and revised estimate of Project costs of the Project.

                Table 2: Project Costs--Appraisal Estimate and Revised (Actual *)

                                                                         US$ Million
                       Item                                Original                         Revised
                                                  Local    Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign     Total
  Land Acquisition                                 36.95       0.00      36.95    116.50       0.00      116.50
  Relocation and Resettlement                      51.61       0.23      51.84      28.82      0.00       28.82
  Preparatory Works                                17.95      11.97      29.92      27.08      0.00       27.08
  Civil Works
    C-01      Barrage and Ancillary Works          51.00     119.00     170.00      54.84     78.21      133.05
    C-02      Power Channel and Ancillary Works    87.00     203.00     290.00    100.32     137.65      237.97
    C-03      Power Complex and Ancillary Works   113.97     265.94     379.91      42.07    147.76      189.83
    C-03A     Penstocks                                                              2.31     12.45       14.76
         Subtotal Civil Works                     358.48     600.14     958.62    371.94     376.07      748.01
  Mechanical and Electrical Works
    ME-01     Turbines and Auxiliaries             13.69      78.51      92.20       3.60     47.96       51.56
    ME-02     Generators and Auxiliaries           16.75      96.05     112.80       1.81     47.16       48.97
    ME-03     Transformers and Misc. Equipmnt      11.98      38.91      50.89       1.74     26.70       28.43
    ME-04     Cranes                                1.24       7.96       9.20       0.48     11.37       11.85
    ME-05     HV Switchgear, Control & Protection   7.40      49.86      57.26       0.78     22.60       23.38
    ME-08     SCADA and Telecom Equipment           0.96      14.27      15.23       0.46      8.14        8.60
    ME-09     Gate Equipment                       21.12      17.59      38.71       0.00     16.69       16.69
    ME-10     Transmission Lines                   14.45      55.05      69.50      18.20     46.69       64.90
         Subtotal Mechanical & Electrical Works    87.59     358.20     445.79      27.06    227.31      254.38
  Engineering and Administration
    Project Consultancy                            33.99      24.00      57.99      39.16     37.41       76.56
    Monitoring and Other Consultancy                1.90       3.91       5.81       1.90      4.59        6.50
    Studies and Field Investigations                1.10       0.00       1.10       1.70      0.00        1.70
    WAPDA's Engineering and Administration         21.81       0.00      21.81      66.47      0.00       66.47
         Subtotal Engineering & Administration     58.80      27.91      86.71    109.23      42.00      151.23
  Duties and Taxes                                 24.00       0.00      24.00      88.34      0.00       88.34
         Total Base Cost                          528.87     986.25   1,515.12    596.56     645.38    1,241.96
  Physical Contingencies                           55.03     114.81     169.84      73.16    189.74      262.91
  Price Contingencies                              87.44      91.13     178.57      54.90     56.66      111.56
         Total Project Cost                       671.34   1,192.19   1,863.53    724.64     891.78    1,616.43
  Interest During Construction                    175.66     210.81     386.47    343.71     107.52      451.23

         Total Financing Required                 847.00   1,403.00   2,250.00  1,068.35     999.30    2,067.66
* Estimate based on April 2003 prices.




                                                     - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1     The ICR mission rates the Sustainability of the Project as "Likely". This rating reflects the
following considerations:

           The cost of electricity generation from GBHP is very competitive, in fact well below the
               average cost of generation for WAPDA. Among the new plants in the WAPDA system, it is
               therefore at the top of the merit order. The generation units are thus expected to be
               dispatched at their full (available) capacity throughout the year. This will ensure an
               adequate revenue stream for WAPDA, to cater for operations and maintenance expenses.

           WAPDA (in coordination with the contractors and equipment suppliers) had initiated
               preparations for the transition from the construction phase to the operations phase, well in
               advance of the actual completion and commissioning of the Project. The organization
               structure, staffing levels, annual budget requirements, etc. have already been authorized, and
               staff have been posted in all key positions. These steps will ensure that the project facilities
               will be efficiently operated and maintained.

6.1.2     The commissioning of GBHP will also help to partly address the imbalance between thermal and
hydel generation capacity in the WAPDA system. Since the mid-1990s, all additions to the system were
thermal projects (largely IPPs, though some WAPDA thermal plants - e.g. Muzaffargarh - were also
commissioned during 1995-97), and the share of hydropower in total generation capacity fell from about
50% in 1994 to about 33% by 2003. This not only increased the annual cost of generation, it also made the
system (and the country's balance of payments) more vulnerable to fluctuations in international oil prices -
since the bulk of domestic oil fuel requirements are imported. The Government and WAPDA therefore
accorded (and continue to accord) a high priority to GBHP, both in allocating the resources required for
construction and operations, and in taking prompt actions to address implementation issues. These
considerations provide further justification for the rating on Sustainability of the Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1     In parallel with the commissioning of the facilities under GBHP, comprehensive Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) procedures have been prepared by WAPDA--in accordance with the O&M manuals
which have been prepared/provided by the contractors and equipment suppliers. The organizational set up
of various units responsible for O&M of the barrage, the power channel and the power complex have been
prepared; the required posts have been sanctioned by WAPDA, and staff are being appointed as per the
requirements; and funding for all O&M expenditures--including staff and other costs--will be provided
annually from WAPDA's budget.

Barrage

6.2.2     In view of the need for close coordination between the Tarbela Dam and the barrage, the external
works of Tarbela (comprising the tunnels, spillways and ancillaries) and the GBHP barrage have been
combined into one Residency - which will be responsible for the "External Works and the Barrage". This
Residency includes three sections:




                                                      - 16 -

            an Operations section, responsible for operating the Head Regulator, Standard Bays Gates,
               Undersluice gatses, and regulation of the barrage pond;
            an Electrical section, which handles preventive maintenance of the electrical equipment
               (including Control Panels, Switchgear, transformers, etc) installed at the barrage; and
            a Mechanical section, responsible for the maintenance of Standard Bays and Head Regulator
               gates, Undersluice gates, gantry cranes, etc.

Daily log sheets for operations of the barrage, and daily, weekly, and monthly log sheets for inspection of
equipment and structures have been prepared.

Power Channel

6.2.3      O&M responsibilities for the power channel involve two offices, one for the barrage structures
and upper reach of the channel, and one for the lower reaches of the channel and the power complex
structures. The monitoring regime involves Daily and Routine inspections, as well Special Inspections
after heavy rains, high winds, or an earthquake in the area. Routine maintenance requirements (e.g.
de-silting of basins, culverts, inlet and outfall structures, and escapes after each monsoon season; procedure
for inspection and repair of concrete and structures, cut slopes, embankments and spoil banks) have been
specified, and daily and routine inspection sheets have been prepared.

Power Complex

6.2.4      O&M of the power complex is headed by a Chief Engineer, and includes three sections handling
Electrical equipment, Mechanical equipment, and the Control and Protection systems.

            The Electrical Maintenance Section is further sub-divided into units responsible for the main
               plant and auxillaries (including the generators, generator transformers, and station batteries),
               and for the switchyard equipment.
            The Mechanical Maintenance Section includes separate units for the main plant - the
               turbines pit and turbines, governor, generator thrust and guide bearings, etc.; and auxillary
               plant and equipment, which covers the intake gates, tail regulator gates, cranes, etc.
            The Control and Protection Section is responsible for the instrumentation and control
               equipment at the power complex.

Daily, weekly and monthly check sheets covering the inspection of all equipment have been prepared.

6.2.5      Up-front preparation and adoption of these O&M procedures should ensure that the transition
from the construction phase to the operations phase of GBHP will be smooth, and the equipment and
structures will be operated as per design specifications. No problems were encountered during the
commissioning of various project facilities (e.g. the civil works/structures, electrical and mechanical
equipment), which provides further comfort that the transition is being managed effectively.




                                                       - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1      The Bank's contributions towards the preparation and appraisal of the Project comprised two
distinct roles. At the preparation stage, it was the executing agency for the UNDP-financed feasibility and
design study. In addition to selecting/appointing consultants and supervising the work, the Bank's role
therefore included analytical inputs to enhance the quality of work; providing international best practice
examples - e.g. to further develop the participatory and consultative process for handling environmental
and social issues; and ensuring that the consultants and WAPDA had timely access to the best available
expertise (through the POE, etc.) for review and advice on key design features of the Project. The Bank's
role during this phase was thus one of facilitation, advice, and support to the consultant team, the
Government and WAPDA.

7.1.2      During appraisal, the Bank's role shifted from preparing the technical designs of the Project, to
verifying that the Project was consistent with Government priorities (including the macro-economic and
fiscal framework); assisting the Government and WAPDA in mobilizing the required finances; and
evaluating WAPDA's (managerial, technical and financial) capacity to undertake this Project.

7.1.3      However, the Bank maintained its emphasis on ensuring that Project design was up to the
required technical, economic and financial standards, and met the Bank's environmental and social
safeguard requirements. The Project required a large financial commitment by WAPDA for a 5-6 year
period, and mobilizing the external financing was a major challenge. Therefore, the Bank initially
approached the appraisal of this Project in two phases. In the first phase, finances were to be provided to
WAPDA for key preparatory works - construction camps, approach roads, etc. This phase included a
donor conference/briefing session, to mobilize the required external financing; actions to improve
WAPDA's financial situation were to be implemented; and supplementary studies on selected
environmental and social issues were to be carried out. The second phase would involve a larger Bank Loan
- along with other donor financing - for the construction of the main Project facilities. The Bank was
expected to finance one (or more) of the civil works contracts, with other donors financing the remaining
civil works and equipment contracts. The Government and WAPDA did not agree with the two phased
approach since, in their view, project preparation activities had been completed, and the Project was ready
for appraisal. The Project was ultimately appraised by the Bank in one go, and the Bank's formal appraisal
was carried out in December 1994. However, the discussion over one or two phases meant a delay of
12-18 months in the Bank's appraisal of the Project. The Project was approved by the Bank's Board in
December 1995. While the interval between appraisal and Board approval (one year) was considerably
longer than the norm for Bank projects, the ICR mission does not classify this as a delay, since this time
was required for arranging the financing from the other lenders. As a result, the SAR was finalized in
November 1995, and only after the indicated financing from the other lenders/donors had been firmed up.

7.1.4      The ICR mission rates overall Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal
of the Project as "Satisfactory".




                                                     - 18 -

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1      The Project entailed extensive supervision by the Bank--a total of 16 supervision missions were
fielded between January 1996 and October 2003--which was also the closing date of the Loan. As there
were no missions between May 2001 and November 2002 (and a mission planned for November 2001 was
deferred/cancelled) due to restrictions on missions to Pakistan post 9/11, the average number of supervision
missions was three per year--somewhat higher than the Bank's average. In addition, these missions had an
extensive agenda--physical implementation, environmental and social components, WAPDA's financial
situation, etc.

7.2.2      Bank missions generally followed a prudent approach--by documenting the implementation
status and issues on all components of the Project, facilitating pro-active discussion of key issues and
constraints, and providing advice on measures which could be taken, to address the major constraints. The
overall quality of Bank supervision of the Project was good, and the Government and WAPDA followed up
on mission recommendations and advice fairly promptly. Mission aide memoires also provided a useful
reference for other donors, on the status of various components of the Project.

7.2.3      The QAG Panel had the following observations regarding Bank supervision of the Project:

            "..The efficacy of Bank supervision seems to have been impaired by the change of the TM
               at a critical juncture, when the local currency shortfall threatened WAPDA's ability to
               contribute to the project. Then, continuity and tight monitoring would have counted most. In
               addition, no management involvement has been recorded, and the missions to the field did not
               include reform or other network specialists. The formerly close-knit donor collaboration
               seems to have loosened, and--as importantly--the supervision of sector developments in
               conjunction with PSDP appears to have become detached from the project.

            Monitoring of WAPDA's financial performance by the Bank was quite effective but in
               March 1997 when the GOP suspended critically needed tariff increases, the Bank
               management did not act decisively. An important question is whether the Bank should have
               anticipated the financial crisis that enveloped WAPDA in 1997. The surge in fuel costs, the
               17% devaluation of the currency and the impact of power purchases from the Hub River
               project should have been anticipated. The Bank might have lessened the crisis if it had
               moved to a rate of return covenant at the outset rather than retaining the self-financing
               approach which proved ineffective when WAPDA's investment program was reduced by the
               IPP program. As WAPDA is now facing financial illiquidity, as of to-date, the handling of
               this crisis by the Bank and proposed financial support operation is necessary and timely...

            The project was set up and supervised to complement reforms in the PSDP project, which
               established the key elements for reform of WAPDA. Ghazi-Barotha did include two
               important reform conditions for WAPDA reform; completion of full corporatization of
               WAPDA and establishment of a separate transmission company by December 31, 1998.
               Evidence of progress on these changes and attention to them by supervision missions was not
               apparent, although the May 1997 aide-memoire urged WAPDA to take faster
               implementation action. The Panel feels that supervision missions should have included staff
               with specialized skills in corporate restructuring. GOP might then have paid more attention
               to them...




                                                      - 19 -

            A factor contributing to the current disarray in WAPDA's finances may have been the delay
               in revising private power policies. Under this loan, GOP had agreed to do this by December
               31, 1996. It would seem that the Bank did not pursue this target actively enough. It did
               propose a freeze on GOP issue of letters of support for IPPs and discussed the new policies
               in December 1997. However, the target date for meeting the covenant was not revised.

            Management should possibly have ensured closer links between project teams supervising
               the Private Sector Development Fund and WAPDA projects. It turned out that theses links
               have become weaker over time...".

7.2.4      The ICR mission offers the following comments on the findings of the QAG Panel:

            The mission agrees that the Bank should have had a better appreciation of the impact of
               power purchases and fuel cost increases on WAPDA's finances, and their consequential
               impact on the Project. The Bank could, for example, have taken a more aggressive stance to
               support the Project, when it became apparent that WAPDA was able to finance only a
               minimal level of investments--by insisting on a rigorous prioritization of investments, more
               aggressively pursuing the loss reduction program, etc.
            Bank supervision of the reform program and unbundling of WAPDA was not really
               separated from the supervision of GBHP. In fact, for most of the tenure of GBHP, the same
               staff were supervising both the Power Sector Development Project (PSDP) and GBHP.
               While the implementation of the reform components was discussed in supervision reports and
               aide memoires on the PSDP, critical issues that could constrain progress under this Project
               were highlighted in GBHP aide memoires and supervision reports also.
            The ICR mission agrees that closer coordination between the Private Sector Energy
               Development Projects (PSEDPs) and GBHP should have been ensured by the Bank--
               particularly given the significant impact of the PSEDP investments on the financial situation
               of WAPDA.

7.2.5      The ICR mission rates the Bank overall performance during supervision as "Satisfactory".
While, as also noted by the QAG panel, the Bank could have highlighted selected issues (e.g. the impact of
delays in land acquisition on construction activities) at an earlier stage - and pushed harder for their
resolution - in general Bank feedback to the Government and WAPDA was timely and focussed. The Bank
also monitored implementation closely to ensure compliance with the safeguard requirements.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1      Overall Bank performance is rated as "Satisfactory".

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1      GBHP was a high priority project for the Government and WAPDA--given the shortage of
generating capacity, and the cost this was imposing on the economy. Also, the very competitive price of
electricity generation from this Project made it a very attractive investment. Therefore, the Government
and WAPDA made every effort to expedite Project preparation. Towards this end, WAPDA proposed that
instead of selecting consultants for the feasibility and design study through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), a joint venture of international and local firms that had the required experience and capacity
be selected on a sole source basis. The Government supported this proposal, and provided the Bank a
strong justification for single-source selection; the Bank accepted this justification.



                                                      - 20 -

7.4.2      The feasibility/design study was of a high quality and up to international standards for
hydropower projects, and was completed within the estimated time, despite a substantially enhanced scope
of work, and disruptions due to the first Gulf war in 1991. A important highlight of the study was the
conscious effort to minimize adverse environmental and social impacts of the Project, even when these
involved higher costs relative to some alternative designs (see Section 3.3 above). Finally, the consultative
and participatory process adopted for the final selection of Project sites, valuation of land and other assets,
etc. was another positive feature and recommendation of the study.

7.4.3      The Government's processing and approval of the feasibility study was also very prompt. The
Project was thus prepared and ready for donor appraisal within about 36 months--which was very
expeditious for a large hydropower project.

7.4.4      In view of the above, the ICR team rates Borrower performance during the preparation phase of
this project as "Highly Satisfactory".


7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1      The Government did not expect to have a major role in implementation apart from mobilizing the
required foreign currency funding, since the local currency requirement was to be met by WAPDA through
internal cash generation. However, during implementation, a number of constraints and issues arose (see
Section 5 above) for which the onus rested largely with the Government. The first was the deterioration in
WAPDA's finances, following the induction of Independent Power Producers (IPPs) under the 1994 Policy.
Those projects were solicited by the Government, and it provided guarantees to the sponsors for the
performance of the public sector counterpart agencies and entities - including WAPDA. The Government
could have taken actions to insulate WAPDA from the increase in generation costs; however, it did not
raise WAPDA's tariffs to fully pass those costs to consumers (up to December 1997, when the NEPRA Act
was passed by Parliament - and the task of determining power tariffs was transferred to NEPRA - the
Government had the full mandate to approve any adjustments in power tariffs), nor did it provide other
resources to WAPDA to cover the increased costs.

7.5.2      From 1999 - when a new management team was appointed in WAPDA--the Government's
control over WAPDA's affairs was substantially reduced. Partly reflecting the strong mandate and
authority accorded to the new management team (although this mandate was mainly for addressing
governance issues and alleged corruption in the utility), WAPDA became very unresponsive to Government
directives and oversight. During this period, WAPDA continued to face a cash shortfall; at the same time,
it continued to essentially disregard Government directives to further reduce line losses, improve
collections, etc.; all of these measures would have helped in overcoming the cash crunch. The pace of
implementation therefore continued to be slower than warranted. However, by this time the Project had
already been delayed by about two years, and target dates for commissioning of the generation units had
been revised to July 2002 - June 2003 (as compared to 2000/2001 in the SAR). WAPDA's lack of
compliance with agreed financial and technical performance targets during this period, therefore, does not
appear to have contributed to further delays in completion.

7.5.3      The Government could have taken actions to maintain the focus of the NAB investigations. The
Government had approved this Project on the basis of, inter alia, the consultative and participatory process
for land valuation; it had also confirmed to the Bank (in the Legal Opinion furnished at effectiveness) that
all agreements reached under the Project were consistent with Pakistani law. Therefore, when NAB



                                                    - 21 -

questioned the acquisition of land at prices that were not (solely) based on past revenue records--and
implicitly questioned the validity of the agreement reached with the Bank--the Government should have
alerted NAB about this agreement. This could have allowed NAB to focus its investigations solely on
instances of corruption and violation of the law. It would also have prevented a number of officials and
affectees from being arrested and prosecuted solely because they performed their duties in accordance with
the agreed procedures for land acquisition.

7.5.4      WAPDA could also have facilitated the NAB investigations. Specifically, the investigations
were initiated at the request of WAPDA. It is not clear whether complete details regarding the agreements
reached with the Bank (e.g. on the participatory process for land valuation and acquisition) were provided
to NAB, when NAB was requested to investigate the reasons for the increase in land costs. Some of the
resentment and uncertainty about the Project which arose during the investigations could have been
avoided, if NAB had been provided the full background on the Project, at the outset. However, WAPDA
has informed the Bank (see Section 9 (a) on Borrower/Implementing Agency Comments) that all records
and relevant documents relating to land acquisition under this Project were provided promptly to NAB.

7.5.5      The ICR mission rates Government performance during implementation as "Unsatisfactory",
since its follow up/remedial actions on two key issues has been inadequate:

            the Tarbela compensation issues have lingered since the start of the Project, and were not
               fully addressed even at the completion date; and

            the continued deterioration in WAPDA's finances reflects, in part, the Government's failure
               to maintain fiscal discipline, or to effectively manage its ownership role as a means to
               improving the governance of the power sector entities.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1      It was in WAPDA's interest that the Project be completed successfully, and as early as possible;
conversely, it was the entity which stood to lose the most from a delay in project implementation.
Therefore, WAPDA made all the efforts it could, to expedite the Project. This included, inter alia,
allocating funds for GBHP even if this meant deferring other high priority activities; and assigning all the
required staff and resources for the Project. Despite according such a high priority to this Project, there
were a few instances where WAPDA was unable to comply (or comply on time) with the requirements of
the Project. These included delays in a number of studies on environmental issues; and delays in
constructing a number of waste water and sewerage treatment facilities which were included in this Project.

7.6.2      However, on a number of issues WAPDA could have adopted a more pro-active and positive
stance. Specifically, it could have expedited the NAB investigations if it had provided NAB the details on
the process for land acquisition which was agreed for this Project. Similarly, WAPDA did not make
aggressive efforts to comply with agreed financial performance targets, particularly during FYs99-2003;
there was significant room for improvement in WAPDA's performance in these areas.

7.6.3      Nevertheless, and considering that WAPDA was operating under some constraints over which it
had little or no direct control, the ICR mission rates WAPDA's performance during implementation as, by
and large, Satisfactory.




                                                      - 22 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1        While recognizing that Project implementation could have been more expeditious, and a number
of issues could have been avoided or resolved much earlier than they actually were, the ICR mission rates
overall Borrower performance under this Project as "Satisfactory".

8. Lessons Learned

8.1          One of the key lessons from the implementation experience under GBHP is that the funding
requirements of such large projects need to be more formally committed than was the case for GBHP. The
financing plan for the Project (including donor commitments to provide the foreign currency resources for
the various contracts) was a key element of the overall funding requirement. However, it was also
important to document the circumstances which would enable WAPDA to contribute its share of the costs
(i.e., tariff increases to offset increases in operating costs, measures to strengthen governance and improve
efficiency, etc), and the Government's commitment to undertake the policy and institutional actions that
were essential for reversing the deterioration in WAPDA's performance. The Project included an
agreement by WAPDA to finance about 40% of the cost of GBHP from its own resources--a commitment
of US$1 billion equivalent, over 6-7 years. While the financial analysis carried out at appraisal highlighted
the conditions under which WAPDA could generate this large surplus, the political and social implications
of the substantial increase in tariffs (which were implicit in those projections) were not fully analyzed.
Consequently, when the actual tariff increases were lower, WAPDA was not able to generate its share of
the finances, and implementation of the Project suffered.

8.2          Another key lesson of GBHP relates to the environmental and social impacts of large
hydropower projects. The environmental aspects of GBHP are mainly positive, in that it obviates the need
for a comparable sized (thermal) generation plant, and thereby reduces the damaging atmospheric impacts
of such plants. However, as demonstrated under GBHP, it is also possible to reduce the potential social
impacts to manageable levels, through rigorous evaluation of alternatives, public consultation and
awareness building, etc. In this context, the selection of the final power channel alignment (and the
conscious decision to avoid existing villages and settlements, even at somewhat higher costs) and locations
of the barrage and power house deserve to be highlighted. These decisions substantially reduced the scale
of the resettlement and relocation under GBHP, without adversely affecting the economic and financial
viability of the Project.

8.3          Another important lesson from this Project is the need for caution while introducing radically
new design or implementation features. The key areas where innovative approaches were pioneered under
GBHP were: (a) the involvement of affectees in the valuation of land and other assets, and (b) the retrofit of
past legacy issues onto a new Project--by attempting to address the outstanding compensation and claims
of the Tarbela Dam Project as a component of GBHP. In both cases, there was limited or no precedent in
Pakistan which could have served as a guide for the Government or WAPDA, when issues arose. This
could have been overcome, to some extent, by exposing the concerned officials to similar conditions in
other countries or other projects/sectors, which the Bank and the Government could have facilitated through
orientation visits, study tours, etc. Similarly, when disagreements over the valuation of land (resulting from
the LVC deliberations) started to emerge, focussed support could have been provided to WAPDA, for
launching public awareness and concensus building campaigns - to promote agreement with the affectees
on the "fair market value" of the land and other assets. The track record of GBHP highlights the need for
flexibility during implementation, and learing from experience while designing measures to execute such
innovative designs and policies.


                                                        - 23 -

8.4        Some of these problems may have been handled more expeditiously if the concerned officials
were exposed to similar conditions in other countries or projects, and the Bank could have taken a more
active role in providing such exposure or first hand examples.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


           The draft ICR was distributed to the Government and WAPDA, and to the co-financiers of the
Project, and all parties were requested to provide to the Bank their inputs ­ including their own assessment
of Project design and implementation experience, and any comments they would like to make on the Bank's
draft. No formal comments were provided by the co-financiers. However, WAPDA provided a detailed set
of reports to the Bank which covered, inter alia:

            the arrangements made for the operations phase (including the organizational set-up for the
               operation of project facilities, monitoring and maintenance arrangements, allocation of
               budgets, etc.); and

            the results of the surveys carried out for the ICR, which document the pre- and post-project
               status of the affectees (in terms of their income levels, asset profiles, etc.), and therefore
               provide an evaluation of the success achieved in meeting the key objective of the RAP ­ i.e.
               ".. to improve or restore the standards of living and earning capacity of all project affected
               people..".

           These reports have been summarized in the ICR, and the full reports are available in Bank files.
Section 6.2 provides a summary of the O&M arrangements which have been adopted by WAPDA, and
Section 10 (paras 10.8 ­ 10.12, and Tables 4 ­ 8) provides the key results of the income restoration and
compensation activities which were carried out under the Project.




                                                      - 24 -

           WAPDA also provided the following comments on two sections/paragraphs of the Bank's draft:




(b) Cofinanciers:




(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                               - 25 -

    10. Additional Information

    10.1         This section discusses the implementation experience in a few key areas. The procurement and
    construction schedule - planned as well as actual--for the physical components of the Project is presented
    in para. 10.2. The objectives and key components of the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
    are presented in paras. 10.3-10.6; and their achievement (or otherwise) is discussed in para. 10.7. Since a
    critical objective of the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan was to restore or improve the
    livelihoods of all project affectees, the remaining paragraphs (10.8 to 10.12) focus exclusively on the extent
    to which this has been achieved. Tables 4-7 below provide details (from surveys which were carried out by
    WAPDA specifically for the ICR) of the assets, income and expenditure patterns of a subset of affectees -
    before and after the Project. These results are used for deriving some preliminary conclusions about the
    success of the income restoration activities which carried out as part of the Project.

    10.2         Table 3 provides dates of the key implementation milestones. It is clear from this Table that in
    the preparation phase (i.e. for procuring the works and equipment contracts) Project implementation was
    fairly smooth, and the original target dates were generally met. However, during implementation, and for
    almost all of the contracts, the time required for completion was longer than initially estimated.

                                Table 3: Procurment and Construction Timetable
                                  Bidding    Bidding    Bidding    Bidding    Bid      Bid    Approval of Contract Completion Funding
                                  Documents Document Documents Documents    Opening Evaluation contract by Award   of Works   Agency
    Contract Package              Completed to funding approved by released   Date  to funding  funding
                                             agency     funding                      agency     agency
                                                         agency
                                                         Civil Works Contracts:

Barrage & Ancillary      SAR date  May 94    Jun 94      Jun 94    Aug 94   May 95    Jul 95    Aug 95     Nov 95  Jan 2000
works: C-01                                                                                                                   ADB
                         Actual    May 94    Jun 94      Jun 94    Aug 94   May 95    Jul 95    Aug 95     Dec 95  Jul 2003

Power Channel &          SAR       May 94    Jun 94      Jun 94    Aug 94   May 95    Jul 95    Aug 95     Nov 95  Jan 2000
Ancillary works: C-02                                                                                                         IBRD
                         Actual    May 94    Jun 94      Jun 94    Aug 94   May 95    Jul 95    Aug 95     Dec 95  Jul 2003

Power Complex &          SAR       May 94    Jun 94      Jun 94    Aug 94   Dec 95   Feb 95     Mar 96     Apr 96  Jun 2001   IBRD/
Ancillary works: C-03    Actual   May 94?    Jun 94?    Jun 94?   Aug 94?    Jan 96  Jun 96     Aug 96     Feb 97  Jul 2003   JBIC

Penstocks: C-03A         SAR       Dec 95                          Jan 96   Apr 96              Aug 96     Sep 96  Jan 2000   KfW
                         Actual    Sep 96    Nov 96      Dec 96    Jun 98    Jul 98  Oct 98     Nov 98     Jan 99  Mar 2003
                                                            Main Mechanical:

Turbines & Auxilliaries: SAR       Jan 95    Apr 95     Sep 94?    Jan 96   Apr 96              Aug 96     Sep 96  Jun 2001   KfW/
ME-01                    Actual    Feb 96    Feb 96      Mar 96    Mar 96    Jun 96  Nov 96     Apr 97     Nov 97  Feb 2004   JBIC

Generators &             SAR       Jan 95    Apr 95     Sep 94?    Jan 96   Apr 96              Aug 96     Sep 96  Jun 2001
Auxilliaries: ME-02                                                                                                           JBIC
                         Actual    Feb 96    Feb 96      Mar 96    Mar 96    Jun 96  Feb 97     Apr 97     Dec 97  Feb 2004

Transformers: ME-03      SAR       May 96                          Sep 96    Jan 97             Jun 97     Jul 97  Sep 2000   KfW
                         Actual    Jun 97    Sep 97      Oct 97    Oct 97   Mar 98   Nov 98     May 99     Oct 99  Apr 2004

Switchgear, Control &    SAR       Mar 96    May 96      Jul 96     Jul 96  Dec 96   Mar 97     Apr 97     May 97  Mar 2000
Protection Equipment:                                                                                                         EIB
                         Actual    Dec 97    Feb 96      Mar 98    Apr 98    Jun 98  Feb 99     Feb 99     Apr 99  Feb 2004
ME-05

SCADA/Telecom            SAR       Jan 96    Feb 96      Mar 96    Apr 96   Aug 96   Dec 96     Feb 97     Mar 97  Dec 2000
Equipment, etc: ME-08                                                                                                         KfW
                         Actual    Jan 97    Jan 97      Feb 97    Mar 97    Jun 97  Jan 98     Apr 98     Aug 98  Mar 2004
                                                           Transmission Lines:

In-Out Tarbela-Gatti     SAR       Sep 96                          Jan 97    Jun 97             Aug 97     Sep 97  Jan 2000   ADB/
                         Actual    Apr 98    May 98      Jun 98    Oct 98    Feb 99  Jun 99     Sep 99     Oct 99  Jan 2003/  IDB
                                                                                                                   Feb 2003

Barotha-Rewat            SAR                                                                                                  IDB
                         Actual                                                                           Nov 2001




                                                                - 26 -

Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan

10.3     The following were the main potential impacts of the Project, as identified in the SAR:

          Reduction in water flows in the Indus river--in the stretch between the barrage and the
             confluence of the Indus with the Kabul river--during the low-flow months;
          Impacts on flora and fauna, as well as riverain ecosystems in the barrage pond and
             downstream of the barrage;
          Acquisition of land for the barrage, power channel, and power complex;
          Relocation/resettlement of 179 families (involving 899 persons) living at the power channel
             and power complex sites, and demolition of 110 private housing units;
          Disposal of about 70 million cubic meters of excess spoil from excavation of the power
             channel;
          Variations in groundwater levels in the vicinity of the channel, due to seepage below the
             channel lining;
          Passage of a fast flowing channel through an agricultural area, which could pose safety
             hazards for inhabitants/livestock, or disrupt pedestrian, livestock and vehicular traffic; and
          Changes in health conditions of the local population due to construction activities, reduction
             in water flows during the low-flow season, etc.

10.4     Comprehensive mitigation measures were incorporated in the project, to address these potentially
adverse impacts. Specifically:

          A minimum of 28 cumecs would be released from the barrage at all times. During high-flow
             months, the Indus would receive the major portion of releases from Tarbela, and the
             diversion of water into the power channel was not expected to impact on ecosystems and
             riverain conditions downstream of the barrage during these months. A program of regular
             water quality monitoring, as well as monitoring of local flora and fauna, was to be
             implemented downstream of the barrage, and when data from this monitoring program
             indicated a need for larger flows, releases from the barrage would be enhanced.
          The Government and WAPDA were committed to improve or restore the current standard of
             living and earning capacity of all affectees. This was reflected in entitlement packages which
             clearly identified the type of land (or asset) loss, definition of entitled person, rights and
             entitlements to compensate for various categories of loss, etc. Compensation for land and
             other assets was to be provided at current market prices, include compensation for
             improvements made by the owners, and the procedures for valuation of land and other assets
             were to be transparent and participatory. The relocation of houses was to be coordinated
             with allocation of agricultural lands, to minimize "out-of-area resettlement".
          Efforts were to be made to compensate affectees through re-developed land in the same area,
             to the extent possible. This involved about 30 million cubic meters of spoil from the channel
             excavation being placed in spoil banks located along the channel, graded, covered with
             top-soil, provided with tubewell irrigation, and offered for re-sale to the affectees, at prices
             consistent with the rates at which the land was originally acquired.
          An underdrainage system was provided under the channel, to minimize seepage losses and
             adverse impacts on local groundwater levels.




                                                    - 27 -

            Safety measures for the power channel include chain-link fences near populated areas; cattle
               grids to prevent livestock from wandering on the service roads and/or accidentally falling
               into the channel; hand rails, floating booms and grab rails along points of public access; and
               public education programs to alert residents about the potential safety risks; etc. In addition,
               the Project included the construction of 46 bridges and crossings over the channel--most of
               which were located along traditionally used routes.

10.5       In addition, a comprehensive monitoring plan was adopted for the construction and operational
stages. This involved, inter alia:

            Oversight and implementation of the Environmental and Resettlement Plan by the WAPDA
               Environment Cell (WEC), and supervision of resettlement activities by WAPDA's Social
               Sciences Unit, through the Project Resettlement Organization (PRO).
            A specialized (external) Monitoring Consultant would support WEC and PRO in monitoring
               the environmental and resettlement aspects of the Project; in particular, the Monitoring
               Consultants would prepare a set of environmental and social monitoring protocols, to serve
               as the basis for monitoring by WEC.
            The Environmental and Resettlement Review Panel (ERRP) would continue to be associated
               with the Project during construction; ERRP would periodically visit the site, provide
               independent assessments and views to WAPDA, and where necessary suggest ways for
               further strengthening the implementation, monitoring and evaluation process.

10.6       Finally, the Project included provision for an Integrated Rural Development Plan (IRDP) to be
implemented by GBTI. WAPDA was to provide funding for IRDP--which aimed at facilitating the
economic development of the project area by, e.g., providing finances for establishing businesses, small
industries, and small-scale infrastructure schemes; assisting area residents in developing farmers' marketing
organizations; and providing training and other advisory services in the Project area.

10.7       The record of implementation of these mitigation measures is mixed--while some items were
implemented promptly, others were significantly delayed, and in some cases it is unlikely that the original
components will be fully implemented. Specifically:

            The monitoring/oversight components were implemented. WEC and Social Sciences Branch
               were fully associated with the Project, and prepare monthly and quarterly reports which are
               reviewed by the Project Office, and remedial actions are taken. WEC's capacity to undertake
               these tasks was substantially enhanced in recent years. Specialized consultants were
               provided to WAPDA, to prepare Environmental and Social Monitoring Protocols, and
               WEC's monitoring activities are based on these Protocols. The ERRP was retained for the
               construction phase, and visited the site twice a year, on average. WAPDA accorded high
               priority to the findings and recommendations of the ERRP, and took prompt actions to
               implement the Panel's recommendations. While ERRP did not visit the site after 9/11, this
               was entirely due to travel warnings and advisories issued by the host countries of some panel
               members.
            Implementation of agreed land acquisition procedures (including participation and
               consultation, replacement at current market value, no "out-of-area" resettlement, etc.) was
               only partly successful. As discussed above (Section 5.1), a major impediment in the Project
               was the delay in land acquisition, largely due to the high cost of land that emerged from LVC
               deliberations. While this impasse was addressed in a participatory manner by requesting



                                                      - 28 -

               GBTI to evolve a consensus on land values, the entire process was called into question by the
               NAB investigation (see Section 5.2). Since the Government and WAPDA had agreed to (and
               confirmed to the Bank the legal validity of) the participatory process for determining the
               values of land and other asset, it was surprising that NAB did not recognize this as such.
            Work on developing spoil banks--which would provide land that is in close proximity to the
               affectees' original locations, and enhance the prospects for land-for-land compensation--was
               not handled carefully. During construction, the contractors and WAPDA focussed mainly on
               completing the power channel (the spoil banks were to be prepared as part of the civil works
               under this contract), and not enough attention was paid to ensuring that the requirements of
               the spoil banks were met. These included, e.g., steps to ensure that excavated materials were
               properly graded, top soil was stored separately, and during construction of the spoil banks
               the required quantum of top soil was indeed placed on top of the banks. As a result, the
               quantum of spoil bank land is much less than projected, the quality of top-soil is not uniform
               across all the banks, and evidence that affectees really are interested in this "land-for-land"
               option is incomplete. Consequently, the program is not likely to achieve its intended
               objectives.
            Consequently, the main reason for classifying the land acquisition/compensation process as
               partly "successful" is the preliminary evidence that affectees appear to have received fair
               market for their assets, and their asset holdings etc., appear to be better now than prior to the
               Project. WAPDA is conducting surveys, covering sample sub-sets of the residents of
               resettlement villages, affectees whose land was acquired for the project, affectees who
               suffered a loss of incomes, and women in the Project area. The surveys are aimed at
               documenting the pre- and post-project situation of the affectees. The results from some of
               these surveys are discussed below.
            Measures to avoid adverse impacts due to the diversion of water into the channel were partly
               implemented. WAPDA agreed to carry out (in addition to the studies carried out at
               appraisal) a Supplementary Environmental and Social study (SES), and prepare a
               management plan for the floodplain area. Also, the Project included a number of wastewater
               and sewerage treatment facilities for the WAPDA colonies whose discharges would flow into
               the Barrage pond or into the river, below the barrage. Work on both these components was
               significantly delayed. The draft final report for the SES was provided to the Bank only in
               December 2003. The draft report is, however, not complete. A key element of the work (the
               hydraulic model) was not completed, since the expatriate specialists have not visited
               Pakistan, for security reasons. Similarly, the wastewater and sewerage treatment plants were
               completed by mid-2003; however, the facility at Ghazi-Khalo (the largest, and most
               important one) has still not been constructed.


10.8       Table 4 provides some statistics on the affectees' current and previous residences. These show
an improvement, in some cases significant, in the quality of the residences. For example, the number and
percentage of kacha houses (i.e. mud houses) declined, while those with "brick and mortar" construction
increased. The average size of houses is larger, and the number and percentage with three rooms (or less)
fell, while those with 6 or more rooms increased. Also, more houses have latrine and sewerage facilities.
An interesting finding of the survey was how the affectees had financed the construction of their houses.
About a third of the affectees had inherited (or received parental support for) their previous house. Now,
almost 90% have financed their houses from their own sources, or taken a loan. While any conclusions
about improvements in incomes should not be drawn from one statistic alone, one of the indicators that can
be used for making such judgements is the respondents' ability to pay for assets such as houses.



                                                     - 29 -

                              Table 4: Housing Characteristics

                                              Present House             Previous House
       Housing Characteristics          Frequency        Percent   Frequency       Percent
Construction Type
   Katcha                                    6             7.6        16             20.3
   Brick and cement                         49            62.0        49             62.0
   Cement plaster                           19            24.1        10             12.7
   Mosaic                                    3             3.8         2              2.5
   Others                                    2             2.5         2              2.5
Financing
   Inherited/Parental support                9            11.4        36             45.6
   Self finance                             44            55.7        36             45.6
   Loan                                      5             6.3         1              1.3
   Self and loan                            21            26.6         6              7.6
Area of House: (a) Covered (Marlas)
   < 5                                      21            26.6        20             25.3
   6 ­ 10                                   36            45.6        36             45.6
   11 ­ 15                                  12            15.2        12             15.2
   16 +                                     10            12.7        11             13.9
Area of House: (b) Covered (Marlas)
   < 5                                      13            16.5        18             22.8
   6 ­ 10                                   26            32.9        32             40.5
   11 ­ 15                                  19            24.1        14             17.7
   16 +                                     21            26.6        15             19.0
Boundary Wall
   Hedge                                     2             2.5
   Katcha                                    7             8.9        24             30.4
   Pacca                                    70            88.6        55             69.6
Rooms (No.)
   < 3                                      31            39.2        39             49.4
   4 ­ 5                                    28            35.4        28             35.4
   6 +                                      20            25.3        12             15.2
Bathrooms
   0                                         6             7.6        12             15.2
   1                                        44            55.7        50             63.3
   2                                        23            29.1        15             19.0
   3                                         6             7.6         2              2.5
Latrine Type
   Open field                               12            15.2        32             40.5
   Flush                                    53            67.1        24             30.4
   Ordinary                                 14            17.7        23             29.1
Drainage
   Yes                                      61            77.2        21             26.6
   No                                       18            22.8        58             73.5
Water Supply
   Hand pump                                14            17.7         6              7.6
   Well                                     10            12.7        54             68.4
   Tap                                      49            62.0        14             17.7
   Others                                    6             7.6         5              6.3
Electricity
   Yes                                      76            96.2        70             88.6
   No                                        3             3.8         9             11.4




                                               - 30 -

10.9       Preliminary results of the survey of women in the Project area do not depict any noticeable
trends. This survey covered 250 women (about 40% of the number who were interviewed as part of the
feasibility study/baseline survey). Some of the responses are positive, for example:

            the number of women who possess skills which can be used for income generation was
                higher than in the baseline survey;
            a larger proportion of the women are in favor of girls/females acquiring skills for income
                generation; and
            a significantly larger proportion (compared to the baseline survey) are in favor of women
                taking up some form of income-generating employment.

           However, these qualitative responses were not reinforced by other evidence regarding e.g. the
proportion of females who--in addition to performing household chores--are employed on a full- or
part-time basis. These survey results should therefore be complemented by further details on the income
and employment status of women, and WAPDA needs to accord a high priority to completing these aspects
of the survey work as soon as possible.

10.10      Some preliminary results of the survey relating to the income status of affectees are presented
below. Table 5 provides the distribution of a sub-set of the affectees, according to income levels. This
indicates a significant decline in the number and percentage of respondents who were in the lower and
middle levels of the scale; specifically, in the 1994 (baseline) survey, about 30% of respondents were in the
low and middle-income brackets. In the current survey, this proportion has dropped to about 15%, and
nearly 85% of the respondents now report their annual household incomes to be at the top end of the scale
(Rs 25-50,000 per annum, or more than Rs 50,000 per annum).

10.11      Tables 7 and 8 provide details of the affectees' weekly expenditures on food, and annual
expenditures on clothing, education and health expenses, and electricity and water supply services. One
striking result from these tables is that 40-50% of the households are now reporting "high" expenditures
(Rs 5000 or more per annum) for education, health, and electricity, whereas in 1994 the corresponding
percentages (for education and health only, since expenditures on electricity--under that survey--have not
been tabulated) were 25-30%.

10.12      These survey results need to be complemented with further work on the income-expenditure
profiles and household budgets, particularly on the savings potential of the affectees. Such analysis would
be essential for drawing conclusions as to whether incomes and standards of living of affectees have been
maintained, increased, or reduced, over the life of the Project.




                                                      - 31 -

Table 5: Percentage distribution of respondents--by annual household income from all sources


              Annual Income (Rupees)                  1994 Survey                2004 Survey
      < 5,000                                               7.4                           0.4
      5,001 ­ 10,000                                        4.4                           1.9
      10,001 ­ 15,000                                       4.8                           2.6
      15,001 ­ 20,000                                       5.8                           5.3
      20,001 ­ 25,000                                       6.8                           3.2
      25,001 ­ 50,000                                      23.9                         28.3
      50,001 +                                             46.9                         58.4
      Mean (Annual Income Per Head)                     15,579                       16,645
                          Total                           100.0                       100.0
                          N                               1,312                       2,638




                       Table 6: Percent distribution of the families of respondents
                       by the types of material goods possessed (multiples answers)

          Type of Material Possession               1994 Survey         2004 Survey (Self Reports)
                                                                     6 Years Ago          Presently
          Electric iron                                 79.3             78.1               85.5
          Sewing machine                                64.9             58.5               63.7
          Radio/Tape Recorder                           49.2             32.5               37.1
          Bicycle                                       45.6             34.1               40.2
          Television                                    43.6             36.0               46.1
          Refrigerator                                  43.1             32.9               42.8
          Washing Machine                               35.7             43.7               52.8
          Electric Water pump                           24.7             19.6               23.2
          Telephone                                     12.5             10.9               17.1
          Geyser                                        9.5              2.2                3.2
          Car                                           8.7              3.8                4.8
          Motorcycle/Scooter                            8.3              8.2                10.7
          VCR                                           7.3              2.3                3.7
          Deep Freezer                                  7.2              4.8                6.3
          Air conditioner                               5.7              1.2                1.6
          Van/Pick Up                                   3.4              0.7                1.3
          Power Generator                               2.1              0.3                0.3
          Dish Antena                                   1.0              1.0                1.2
          Rickshaw                                      0.7              0.6                1.1
          Cable Connection                               --              0.2                0.2
          Natural Gas Connection                         --              3.1                5.2
          Total                                         100              100                100
          N                                             1312             2638               2638




                                                  - 32 -

    Table 7: Percent distribution of respondents -- weekly expenditure on food items

                                         Expenses in Rupees
2004 Survey          <100    101-200   201-300  301-400 401-500 501+     Total     N
(Presently)
Food expenses on
Meat/Beef/Chicken    77.2      15.9     4.4      1.0      0.7    0.8      100     2638
Vegetable            46.2      38.2     10.9     2.5      1.4    0.7      100     2638
Fruit                86.7      10.1     2.1      0.5      0.3    0.2      100     2638
Milk                 24.9      39.7     23.5     6.1      3.6    2.1      100     2638
Eggs                 97.7      1.7      0.5       -       0.1      -      100     2638
Ghee/Butter          38.5      46.4     11.6     2.3      0.9    0.2      100     2638
Sugar                80.1      16.4     3.0      0.2      0.2    0.1      100     2638
Flour                14.6      34.0     36.5     8.2      5.0    1.7      100     2638
Rice                 90.0      8.2      1.6      0.1       -       -      100     2638
Non-food Expenses
Wash Soap/Powder     95.0      4.1      0.5       -       0.1    0.2      100     2638
Bath soap/Shampoo    97.9      1.7      0.3       -        -     0.1      100     2638
Kerosene oil         93.6      4.9      1.0      0.2      0.1    0.2      100     2638
Other (specify)      76.0      18.2     4.5      0.6      0.3    0.4      100     2638
                                       2004 Survey
                                     (Six Years Ago)
Meat/Beef/Chicken    88.2      9.0      1.5      0.3      0.3    0.7      100     2638
Vegetable            68.1      25.3     5.0      0.9      0.3    0.3      100     2638
Fruit                93.7      4.5      1.1      0.4      0.1    0.1      100     2638
Milk                 44.6      38.9     11.9     2.6      1.3    0.7      100     2638
Eggs                 99.1      0.8      0.1      0.1       -       -      100     2638
Ghee/Butter          65.0      29.3     4.5      0.7      0.3    0.1      100     2638
Sugar                91.8      7.3      0.7      0.1       -       -      100     2638
Flour                30.1      47.2     17.1     2.9      2.2    0.5      100     2638
Rice                 94.5      4.7      0.8       -        -       -      100     2638
Non-food Expenses                                                                 2638
Wash Soap/ Powder    97.8      1.8      0.2       -        -     0.2      100     2638
Bath Soap/Shampoo    99.0      0.7      0.2       -       0.1    0.1      100     2638
Kerosene oil         95.7      3.6      0.4      0.2       -     0.1      100     2638
Other (specify)      88.8      9.6      1.3      0.2      0.1    0.1      100     2638
                                       1994 Survey

Meat/Beef/Chicken    63.4      25.7     5.5      2.1      1.7    1.7      100     1262
Vegetable            72.1      22.8     2.9      0.8      0.5    0.9      100     1299
Fruit                71.9      17.6     5.3      1.5      1.5    2.3      100     1159
Milk                 36.6      35.5     17.9     4.6      2.4    2.9      100     1256
Eggs                 95.4      3.5      0.3      0.2       -     0.1      100     869
Ghee/Butter          60.3      30.1     6.2      1.5      0.6    1.3      100     1300
Sugar                87.7      9.7      1.7      0.5      0.2    0.3      100     1305
Flour                42.3      42.2     10.5     2.1      1.2    1.6      100     1287
Rice                 96.8      2.5      0.2      0.2      0.2    0.1      100     1103
Non-food Expenses
Wash Soap/ Powder    95.6      2.9      0.9      0.2      0.2    0.1      100     1303
Bath Soap/Shampoo    47.5      2.1      0.3       -        -     0.1      100     1290
Kerosene oil         92.6      6.5      0.7       -       0.1    0.1      100     1019
Other (specify)      69.0      19.5     5.0      1.7      2.9    1.9      100     477




                                          - 33 -

        Table 8: Percent distribution of respondents -- annual expenditures on clothing,
                                eductation, health and utilities

                                             Expenses in Rupees
2004 Survey          < 1000     1001-     2001-     3001-     4001-  5001+               N
(Presently)                      2000      3000     4000      5000             Total
Clothing/Shoe
Expenses
Winter                20.8       28.7      18.3      11.3      8.2    12.7      100     2638
Summer                28.7       28.3      16.9      11.2      5.2     9.7      100     2638
Other
Education expenses    44.1       4.2        5.9      4.3       3.7    37.8      100     2638
Health expenses       2.5        7.2       10.7      11.3      8.9    59.4      100     2638
Electricity Charges   3.0        7.7       14.5      12.5     12.0    50.3      100     2638
Water supply          93.6       5.4        0.3      0.2       0.1     0.3      100     2638
                                           2004 Survey
                                         (Six Years Ago)
Clothing/Shoe
Expenses
Winter                34.1       28.4      17.6      10.2      4.1     5.6      100     2638
Summer                43.1       27.7      16.2      6.7       2.2     4.0      100     2638
Other
Education expenses    50.3       6.9        8.1      4.0       4.9    25.8      100     2638
Health expenses       6.7        15.7      18.5      11.4      9.5    38.1      100     2638
Electricity Charges   10.3       19.5      23.0      11.3     10.0    25.9      100     2638
Water supply          98.5       1.3        0.1       -         -      0.1      100     2638

                                          1994 Survey
Clothing/Shoe
Expenses
Winter                17.6       28.4      18.4      9.0      11.2    15.3      100     1291
Summer                24.7       30.5      19.4      8.8       6.5     9.9      100     1289
Other
Education expenses    28.2       19.4       9.9      5.5       7.0    30.0      100     917
Health expenses       24.5       18.1      11.1      6.0       9.2    31.1      100     1258
Electricity Charges
Water supply
Utilities             94.5       3.0        1.0      1.2       1.2     0.2      100     1200




                                              - 34 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
             Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate



 Increased hydro generation.            No specific targets as hydropower    Hydro generation increased
                                        generation percentage is expected    substantially; during FY04 (July-May)
                                        to vary from year to year.           hydro was about 46% of total
                                                                             generation, compared to about 35% in
                                                                             FY03. GBHP accounted for about 16%
                                                                             of hydro generation during FY04.

 GWH load shed per annum.               Less than 0.5% total generation.     No formal load-shedding in WAPDA
                                                                             system.

 Unbundle and spearate WAPDA            Separated hydro entity               Completed
 hydro wing from other power            established.
 operations.



 Project completion date.               July 2003 (appraisal target was      Generating units 1-5 were
                                        June 2001).                          commissioned between June 2003
                                                                             and May 2004.



 Completed cost.                        US$2.25 billion.                     Final Cost estimate is
                                                                             US$ 2.067 billion.

 Establish monitoring panel and
 improve institutional capacity:

   i) Establish independent             Establish ERRP and MFG;              ERRP conducted preiodic reviews
     monitoring panels;                                                      of GBHP up to mid-2001;

  ii) Develop environmental and         Develop WEC.
     social unit in WAPDA.                                                   WEC improving performance.



 Community acceptance of project
 and adequate compensation for loss:

   i) Establish project NGO;            Establish GBTI;                      GBTI is fully functional;

  ii) Community Acceptance;             Community acceptance indices         Surveys being conducted by
                                        to be determined;                    WAPDA, to determine affectee
                                                                             views on compensation, restoration
                                                                             of income etc.;

 iii) PIC established and effective.    PIC established and effective.       PIC has been operational.



 Satisfaction of affectees:

   i) Satisfaction of affectees;        Indices to be determined;            Indices to be determined;

  ii) Number of court cases.            Targets not appropriate now.         Court Cases withdrawn by affectees
                                                                             and WAPDA, and compensation
                                                                             payments were made according to
                                                                             1998 Compensation Agreement.




                                                        - 35 -

 Community incomes and social
 satisfaction:

   i) Average income                       Indices to be determined.              Surveys being carried out.

  ii) Social acceptance                    Indices to be determined.              Indices to be determined.

 1. Extent of land in Spoil Banks          Target extent to be determined.        Soils banks under preparation.
     transferred for agricultural use by
     affectees.

 2. Acceptable treatment of effluents.     Acceptability of effluents; target     Regularly monitored by WEC.
                                           to be determined.
 3. Worker safety:
     a) number of deaths;                  Targets to be determined.              Information to be compiled.
     b) number of serious accidents.




Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
             Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate


 Power output.                             1,450 MW                               Capacity fully installed, and generating
                                                                                  units commissioned.


 Annual energy output.                     6,000 GWH                              Planned energy output will be
                                                                                  acheived. First 11 months generation
                                                                                  from the Project is about 4100 GWh,
                                                                                  about 16% of total hydel generation.




1End of project




                                                            - 36 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Land Acquisition, Relocation and Resettlement,          118.71          172.40           145.2
   and Preparatory Works

2. Civil Works                                             839.91          575.61            68.5

3. Mechanical and Electrical Equipment                     445.79          254.36            57.1

4. Engineering and Administration                           86.71          151.23           174.4
5. Taxes and Duties                                         24.00           88.34             368

Total Baseline Cost                                       1515.12         1241.94
 Physical Contingencies                                    169.84          262.91           154.8
 Price Contingencies                                       178.57          111.56            62.5
                        Total Project Costs               1863.53         1616.41
                          Interest during construction     386.47          451.23          116.80
                  Total Financing Required                2250.00         2067.64




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          882.80            4.00         0.00        316.70       1203.50
                                 (303.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (303.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         4.00        522.50        526.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.00)         (0.00)       (4.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         9.00         93.40        102.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.00)         (0.00)       (3.00)
4. Miscellaneous    -              0.00             0.00         0.00         31.10        31.10
Taxes and Duties
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous -                 0.00             0.00       386.50         0.00         386.50
Interest During Constr.           (0.00)           (0.00)      (40.00)        (0.00)      (40.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          882.80            4.00       399.50        963.70       2250.00
                                 (303.00)          (0.00)      (47.00)        (0.00)      (350.00)




                                                - 37 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               742.11              0.00              0.00            344.30           1086.41
                                      (298.78)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (298.78)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00            290.40            290.40
                                       (0.12)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.12)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00            151.20            151.20
                                       (0.99)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.99)
4. Miscellaneous       -                0.00               0.00              0.00             88.30            88.30
Taxes and Duties
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous -                      0.00               0.00            451.20             0.00             451.20
Interest During Constr.                (0.00)             (0.00)           (40.00)              ()             (40.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               742.11              0.00            451.20            874.20           2067.51
                                      (299.89)            (0.00)           (40.00)            (0.00)          (339.89)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

           The least cost analysis which was carried out for the feasibility study was based on the WASP
generation expansion planning model. WAPDA's standard practice for its generation planning exercises
includes a number of assumptions/requirements, which were retained for the feasibility studies:

            a minimum margin requirement of 10% above peak summer demand; and a maximum
               margin of 25%;

            the Loss of Load Probability (LOLP) was unconstrained; and

            the value of Energy Not Served (ENS) was taken as Rs 6.50/kWh.

           Committed plant additions (both thermal and hydro) were taken from WAPDA's investment
program. For some of the hydro plants, feasibility studies and detailed designs had been completed, while
others were only at a pre-feasibility stage. For Candidate Plants, the following were included in the
feasibility study for GBHP:

            210 MW Oil Fired Steam

            300 MW Oil Fired Steam

            500 MW Coal Fired Steam

            300 MW Combined Cycle

            50 and 100 MW Gas Turbine(s)

            100 MW Diesel plant; and

            300 MW Nuclear plant

            Number of private projects were in the planning and initial preparation phase in the early 1990s.
These were also included as candidate plants (or as committed additions, depending on the stage or
preparation or implementation) for the generation expansion program. Private (IPP) projects which were
considered by WAPDA included:




                                                    - 39 -

                           IPPs Considered under the Three Development Scenarios
                                    for GBHP Least Cost Expansion Study

                              Description              No. of Units         Unit Size     Installed Capacity
                                                                              (MW)              (MW)

           1       Hubco                                    4                   323              1,292
           2       Davis Energin                            1                     8                  8
           3       Fauji Kabir Wala                         1                   144                144
           4       Multan Power Generation                  1                   114                114
           5       Southern Electric                        1                   113                113
           6       Saba Power                               1                   102                102
           7       Kohinoor Energy                          1                   120                120
           8       Northern Electric                        1                     6                  6
           9       AES                                      1                   337                337
           10      Security Electric                        1                   285                285
           11      Walk Power                               1                   736                736
           12      Uch Power                                1                   536                536

                           Total                                                                 3,793


           The Bank's appraisal of the Project was conducted when the Government's policy for private
investments in generation had already been launched - in early 1994. Therefore, the least cost analysis
which was conducted for the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was based on a specific list of IPP
projects - specifically, for the SAR it was assumed that 2502 MW of capacity (in addition to the 1292 MW
Hub Power Project) would be added to the system through IPPs by 1998. The SAR also assumed a cost of
Energy Not Served (ENS) of USc 0.27/kWh, which is fairly close to the value used in the feasibility studies
(Rs 6.50/kWh). For the post 1998 period, the list of candidate (thermal/IPP) projects used in the SAR was:

            50-100 MW Gas Turbine
            150-600 MW Steam plant, and
            150-600 MW Combined Cycle plant

           The analysis carried out for the feasibility report as well as for the SAR confirmed the ranking of
GBHP in the least cost expansion program for the power sector - and GBHP was selected at its earliest
feasible commissioning date (1998 in the feasibility studies, and 2002 in the SAR studies). GBHP was
selected for commissioning after 2002 only in those cases where the additional capacity to be installed
through IPPs was 600-1800 MW larger than the amounts contracted under the 1994 Policy.

           For the ICR, three scenarios based on the growth in power demand during the 1990s, and the
capacity installed through IPPs were recomputed using the actual construction schedule and cost of GBHP.
These scenarios were refined to include:

            with low demand growth: (a) only the Hub Power Project as a committed addition, with other
               IPPs taken as candidate plants; and (b) all IPPs, including Hub as committed additions; and

            with a high demand growth, all IPPs (including Hub) as committed additions.

           In all three cases, GBHP was selected at it earliest feasible date - i.e. 2004. This analysis
reaffirms the feasibility study conclusions that GBHP, with its revised construction schedule and
completion date, remains part of the least cost generation expansion program for the WAPDA system. The
results of these three scenarios are presented in the following tables.




                                                      - 40 -

                              Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project
                          Least Cost Generation Expansion Schedule

CASE-1: Low Demand Forecast with Hubco only


        Peak Load    Capacity Addition (committed    Total System            ENS    Reserve
 Year     (MW)      Additions shown in parenthesis)  Capacity (MW) LOLP (%) (GWh)  Margin (%)

 1995     10534                                         11869       13.841  868.40  12.70
                 (Muzaffargarh 210MW, Bin Qasim
 1996     10972  210MW)                                 12357       11.576  698.50  12.60
                 Muzaffargarh 530MW, Kot Addu
 1997     11462  397MW, Hub 646MW                       13930       2.235    71.80  21.50
 1998     12002  2 GTS, 1 IPPS, (Hub 646MW)             15276       0.867    21.50  27.30
 1999     12592  1 IPPS, (Chashma Barrage 184MW)        15935       0.808    19.40  26.60
 2000     13098  1 IPPS, (Chashma Nuclear 300MW)        16860       0,697    14.70  28.70
 2001     14054  2 IPPS                                 17915       0.638    13.40  27.50
 2002     14569  1 IPPS                                 18430       0.658    13.70  26.50
 2003     15019  1 GT, 2 HYDRO                          18664       0.976    24.10  24.30
 2004     15382  GBHP                                   19970       0.148    1.30   29.80
 2005     15998                                         19876       0.873    20.50  24.20
 2006     16534  1 GT, 1 IPPS                           20421       0.887    20.80  23.50
 2007     17380  Kalabagh                               21810       0.536    10.20  25.50
 2008     18191  Kalagagh                               22728       0.437    8.10   24.90
 2009     19056  2 GTS, Kohala HPP                      23428       0.886    37.40  22.90
 2010     19984  1 GTS, 2 IPPS                          24728       0.882    40.60  23.70
 2011     21067  2 IPPS                                 25928       0.517    11.40  23.10
 2012     22227  3 GST, 1 IPPS                          26828       0.806    23.90  20.70
 2013     23467  3 GTS, 1 IPPS, Tarbela HPP             28688       0.622    27.20  22.20
 2014     24793  1 IPPS, 2 IPPS                         29678       0.949    48.40  19.70
 2015     26224  1 GT, 2 IPPC, 2 IPPS                   31148       0.94     40.3    18.8
 2016     27720  1 GT, 1 IPPC, 2 IPPS                   32424       0.954   35.20   17.00
 2017     29335  1 GT, 1 IPPC, 2 IPPS                   34114       1.000   39.30   16.30
 2018     31058  2 GTS, 3 IPPS                          36114       0.940   36.60   16.30
 2019     32490  10 GTS, 1 IPPS                         37714       0.949   38.00   16.10
 2020     33955  1 GT, 3 IPPS                           39614       0.944   39.10   16.70




                                             - 41 -

                               Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project
                           Least Cost Generation Expansion Schedule

CASE-2: Low Demand Forecast with all IPPS


        Peak Load    Capacity Addition (committed     Total System           ENS    Reserve
 Year    (MW)       Additions shown in parenthesis)  Capacity (MW) LOLP (%) (GWh)   Margin (%)

 1995    10534                                           11869      13.841  868.40   12.70
                 (Muzaffargarh 210MW, Bin Qasim
 1996    10972   210MW)                                  12357      11.576  698.50   12.60
                 Muzaffargarh 530MW, Kot Addu
 1997    11462   397MW, Hub 646MW                        13930      2.235    71.80   21.50

                 Private Thermal Power Plants for
 1998    12002   2502MW, (Hub 646MW)                     16977      0.025     -      41.40

 1999    12592   (Chashma Barrage 184MW)                 17036      0.101    1.00    35.30

 2000    13098   1 IPPS, (Chashma Nuclear 300MW)         17361       0.28    4.00    32.60
 2001    14054   2 IPPS                                  17816      0.715    15.10   26.80
 2002    14569   1 IPPS                                  18331       0.74    16.40   25.80
 2003    15019   4 GTS                                   18601      0.972    23.80   23.90
 2004    15382   GBHP                                    19970      0.148    1.30    29.40
 2005    15998                                           19813      0.870    19.80   23.80
 2006    16534   1 GT, 1 IPPS                            20358      0.884    20.50   23.10
 2007    17383   Kalabagh HPP                            21747      0.532    9.90    25.10
 2008    18191   Kalagagh HPP                            22665      0.431    7.80    24.60
 2009    19056   2 GTS, Kohala HPP                       23365      0.790    27.40   22.60
 2010    19984   1 GTS, 2 IPPS                           24665      0.764    28.90   23.40
 2011    21067   2 IPPS                                  25865      0.513    10.80   22.80

 2012    22227   2 GTS, 1 IPPS                           26665      0.843    25.50   20.00

 2013    23467   4 GTS, 1 IPPS, Tarbela HPP              28625      0.655    29.60   22.00
 2014    24793   1 GTS, 3 IPPS                           29715      0.788    36.50   19.90
 2015    26224   1 GT, 2 IPPC, 2 IPPS                    31148       0.94    40.3     18.8
 2016    27720   1 GT, 1 IPPC, 2 IPPS                    32361      0.958   34.90    16.70
 2017    29335   2 GTS, 1 IPPS, 2 IPPS                   34151      0.935   34.60    16.40
 2018    31058   1 GT, 3 IPPS                            36051      0.943   36.70    16.10
 2019    32490   8 GTS, 1 IPPS, 2 Hydro                  37715      0.943   37.70    16.10

 2020    33955   1 IPPC, 2 IPPS                          39515      0.997   43.10    16.40

                 Total Capacity Additions                         27,646




                                               - 42 -

                                     Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project
                                Least Cost Generation Expansion Schedule

CASE-3: High Demand Forecast with all IPPS


        Peak Load    Capacity Addition (committed Additions Total System                      Reserve
 Year      (MW)              shown in parenthesis)          Capacity (MW) LOLP (%) ENS (GWh)  Margin (%)

 1995        10,534                                               11,869     13.841   868.40        12.70
                    (Muzaffargarh 210MW, Bin Qasim
 1996        11,349 210MW)                                         12,357    18.974 1,336.20          8.90
                    Muzaffargarh 530MW, Kot Addu 397MW,
 1997        12,301 Hub 646MW                                      13,930     8.069   451.50        13.20
                    Private Thermal Power Plants for
 1998        13,452 2502MW, (Hub 646MW)                            16,977     0.604     12.70       26.20

 1999        14,761 2 IPPS (Chashma Barrage 184MW)                 18,236     0.734     17.40       23.50


 2000        16,120 1 GT, 2 IPPS (Chashma Nuclear 300MW)           19,861     0.919     22.50       23.20
 2001        18,066 4 GTS, 3 IPPS                                  21,916     0.911     22.80       21.30
 2002        19,318 3 IPPS                                         23,631     0.566     11.40       22.30
 2003        20,586 2 IPPS                                         24,701     0.778     18.50       20.00
 2004        21,895 GBHP                                           26,007     0.650     13.40       18.80
 2005      234,540 2 GTS, 3 IPPS                                   27,913     0.979     27.20       18.60

 2006        25,256 2 GTS, 3 IPPS                                  29,758     0.979     28.30       17.80

 2007        27,413 Kalabagh 1&2                                   32,347     0.759     18.20       18.00

 2008        29,672 6 GTS, 1 IPPC, 1 IPS, Kohala                   34,365     0.958     28.20       15.80

 2009        32,144 4 GTS, 2 IPPS, Tarbela Ext.                    36,925     0.938     27.20       14.90

 2010        34,854 1 IPPC, 5 IPPS                                 40,525     0.807     30.70       16.30
 2011        37,982 1 GT, 1 IPPC, 4 IPPS                           43,625     0.995     47.10       14.90

 2012        41,416 2 GTS, 2 IPPC, 4 IPPS                          47,425     0.984     50.80       14.50

 2013        45,182 4 GTS, 1 IPPC, 4 IPPS, Basha 1                 51,682     0.989     55.50       14.40

 2014        49,312 5 GTS, 3 IPPC, 5 IPPS                          56,172     0.979     58.80       13.90

 2015       53,853 3 GTS, 2 IPPC, 6 IPPS, Basha 2                 61,682      0.962    61.80         14.5
 2016       58,800 5 GTS, 3 IPPC, 6 IPPS                          66,958      0.999    69.90       13.90

 2017       64,241 6 GTS, 3 IPPC, 4 IPPS, Basha 3&3               73,228      0.977    72.90       14.00
 2018       70,204 4 IPPC, 7 IPPS                                 79,828      0.975    76.70       13.70
 2019       76,333 8 GTS, 2 IPPC, 8 IPPS                          86,628      0.977    79.80       13.50
 2020       82,996 8 GTS, 3 IPPC, 9 IPPS                          94,628       0.99    85.20       14.00

                    Total Capacity Additions                             82,759




                                                - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              Fact-finding              1    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              September 1987

              Follow-up                 1    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              December 1987

              Follow-up                 1    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              April 1988

              Preparation               1    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              September 1988

              Preparation               1    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              March 1989

              Preparation               4    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              July 1989                      Sr. Trust Fund Officer (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Pr. Environmtl Spclst (1)

              Preparation               1    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              October 1989

              Preparation               1    Sr. Trust Fund Officer (1)
              February 1990

              Preparation               4    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              March 1990                     Pr. Environmental Spclst (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Sr. Trust Fund Officer (1)

              Preparation               5    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              May 1990                       Pr. Environmental Spclst (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Sr. Trust Fund Officer (1)
                                             Power Engineer (1)

              Preparation               4    Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
              October 1990                   Sr. Trust Fund Officer (1)
                                             Pr. Environmental Spclst (1)
                                             Economist (1)

              Preparation               1    Sr. Trust Fund Officer (1)
              December 1990



                                              - 44 -

           Preparation       2  Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
           March 1991           Economist (1)

           Preparation       4  Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
           May 1991             Pr. Environmental Spclst (1)
                                Pr. Power Engineer (1)
                                Economist (1)

Appraisal/Negotiation

           Appraisal         9  Pr. Power Engr/Task Mgr (1)
           November 1994        Sr. Power Engineer (1)
                                Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
                                Financial Analyst (1)
                                Energy Economist (1)
                                Project Adviser (1)
                                Pr. Environmental Spclst (1)
                                Financial Analyst (1)
                                Consultant (1)

           Post-Appraisal    7  Pr. Power Engr/Task Mgr (1)
           Review               Financial Analyst (1)
           March 1995           Energy Economist (1)
                                Legal Counsel (1)
                                Disbursement (1)
                                Consultant (2)

           Post-Appraisal    7  Pr. Power Engr/Task Mgr (1)
           Review               Project Adviser (1)
           July 1995            Financial Analyst (1)
                                Energy Economist (1)
                                Environmental Speclst (1)
                                Consultant (2)


           Negotiations      7  Pr. Power Engr/Task Mgr (1)
           November 1995        Financial Analyst (1)
                                Energy Economist (1)
                                Legal Counsel (1)
                                Disbursement (1)
                                Consultant (2)

Supervision
                                                                S    S
           January 1996      10 Pr. Power Engineer (1)
                                Financial Analyst (1)
                                Energy Economist (1)
                                Pr. Environmental Spclst (1)
                                Pr. Dam Specialist (1)
                                Resettlement Consultant (1)
                                Project Specialist (1)
                                Environmental Spclst (1)
                                Energy Specialist (1)
                                Consultant (1)



                                - 45 -

April 1996        5 Resettlement Consultant (1)       S    S
                    Project Specialist (1)
                    Financial Analyst (1)
                    Environmental Specialist (1)
                    Pr. Power Engineer (1)

July 1996         4 Resettlement Consultant (1)       S    S
                    Project Specialist (1)
                    Financial Analyst (1)
                    Pr. Power Engineer (1)

December 1996     4 Pr Power Engineer (1)             S    S
                    Pr. Env Specialist (1)
                    Env and Resettl Specialist (1)
                    Resettlement Specialist (1)

May 1997          5 Pr. Power Engnr/TTL (1)           U    S
                    Dam Specialist (1)
                    Env and Resettl Speclst (1)
                    Resettlement Specialist (1)
                    Environmental Speclst (1)

October 1997      3 Power Engineer (1)                U    S
                    Env and Resettl Specialist (1)
                    Economist (1)

April 1998        7 Power Engineer (1)                S    S
                    Financial Analyst (2)
                    Env and Social Dev Speclst (1)
                    Dams Specialist (1)
                    Energy Specialist (1)
                    Resettlement Specialist (1)

December 1998     4 Sr. Power Engineer (1)            S    S
                    Pr. Environmental Speclst (1)
                    Social Dev Specialist (1)
                    Consult--Resettl Speclist (1)

April 1999        5 Sr. Power Engineer (1)            U    S
                    Social Dev Specialist (1)
                    Environmental Specialist (1)
                    Resettlement Specialist (1)
                    Energy Specialist (1)

September 1999    4 Sr. Power Engineer (1)            U    S
                    Social Dev Specialist (1)
                    Resettlement Specialist (1)
                    Sr. Energy Specialist (1)




                    - 46 -

      June 2000        10 Sr. Power Engineer (1)           S    S
                          Pr. Financial Analyst (1)
                          Social Scientist (1)
                          Resettlement Specialist (1)
                          Sr. Energy Specialist (1)
                          Environmental Specialist (1)
                          Disbursement (1)
                          Procurement (1)
                          Environmental Advisor (1)
                          Consultant (1)

      November 2000    5  Sr. Power Engineer (1)           S    S
                          Sr. Energy Specialist (1)
                          Social Scientist (1)
                          Social Dev Specialist (1)
                          Sr. Environmental Speclst (1)

      May 2001         8  Social Dev Specialist (2)        S    S
                          Environmental Specialist (1)
                          Private Sec Dev Speclst (1)
                          Financial Spclst (con) (1)
                          Energy Specialist (1)
                          Financial Analyst (1)
                          Power Engineer (1)

      November 2002    5  Task Team Leader (1)
                          Energy Specialist (1)
                          Environmental Speclst (1)
                          Social Dev Speclst (2)

      June 2003        5  Task Team Leader (1)             S    U
                          Sr. Social Scientist (1)
                          Social Dev Specialist (1)
                          Sr. Power Engineer (1)
                          Sr. Engineer (1)
                                                           S    S

ICR
                                                           S    S
      October 2003     5  Task Team Leader (1)
                          Sr. Social Scientist (1)
                          Social Dev Specialist (1)
                          Sr. Power Engineer (1)
                          Sr. Engineer (1)




                          - 47 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           70.30                          79.70

  Appraisal/Negotiation              193.10                          520.60
  Supervision                        581.89                        1,663.34
  ICR                                  14.93                          52.69
  Total                              860.22                        2,316.33




                                            - 48 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 14587-PAK; November 27, 1995)

2.   Memorandum of the President (MOP) (November 27, 1995)

3.   Loan Agreement, Project Agreement Loan 3965-PK (March 7, 1996)

4.   Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) (February 5, 1991)

5.   Minutes of IEPS Review Meeting (June 4, 1993)

6.   Project Information Document (PID) (updated on February 23, 1995)

7.   Environmental Data Sheet (August 21, 1995)

8.   Minutes of pre-appraisal meeting, with comments from peer reviewers (March 30, 1994)

9.   Minutes of yellow cover review meeting, with comments from peer reviewers (September 15,
     1995)

10.  Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS) (November 7, 1994)

11.  Environmental Assessment Summary (SecM94-1147; November 17, 1994)

12.  Project Information Document (PID) (updated on February 23, 1995)

13.  Environmental Data Sheet (August 21, 1995)

14.  Fact-finding mission: September 1987
     (back-to-office report 11/6/1987)

15.  Follow-up mission: December 1987
     (back-to-office report 1/20/1988)

16.  Follow-up mission: April 1988
     (back-to-office report 5/23/1988)

17.  Preparation mission: September 1988
     (back-to-office report 9/28/1988; aide-memoire 9/21/1988)

18.  Preparation mission: March 1989
     (back-to-office report 5/11/1989; aide-memoire 3/26/1989; TOR 2/23/1989)

19.  Preparation mission: July 1989
     (back-to-office report 8/1/1989; aide-memoire 7/24/1989; TOR 6/8/1989)

20.  Preparation mission: October 1989
     (back-to-office report 10/17/1989; aide-memoire 10/13/1989; TOR 9/15/1989)

21.  Preparation mission: February 1990
     (back-to-office report 2/22/1990; TOR 1/8/1990)

22.  Preparation mission: March 1990
     (back-to-office report 4/16/1990; TOR 3/15/1990)

23.  Preparation mission: May 1990
     (back-to-office report 6/15/1990; aide-memoire 5/17/1990; TOR 4/26/1990)



                                              - 51 -

24. Preparation mission: October 1990
     (back-to-office report 10/23/1990; aide-memoire 10/13/1990; TOR 10/5/1990)

25. Preparation mission: December 1990
     (back-to-office report 12/18/1990)

26. Preparation mission: March 1991
     (back-to-office report 6/7/1991; aide-memoire 5/23/1991; TORs 3/5/1991 and 4/17/1991)

27. Preparation mission: May 1991
     (back-to-office report June 7, 1991, aide-memoire May 23, 1991)

28. Appraisal mission: November 1994
     (management letter 2/9/1995; back-to-office report 2/22/1995; aide-memoire)

29. Post-appraisal review mission: March 1995
     (management letter 5/1/1995; back-to-office report 5/20/1995; aide-memoire)

30. Post-appraisal review mission: July 1995
     (TORs 6/30/1995 and 3/13/1995)

31. Negotiations: November 1995
     (agreed minutes of negotiations 11/7/1995; summary of negotiations 11/13/1995)

32. Supervision mission: January 1996
     (back-to-office report 2/13/1996; aide-memoire; TOR 12/21/1995)

33. Supervision mission: April 1996
     (back-to-office report 5/29/1996; management letter 5/17/1996; aide-memoire; TOR 4/1/1996)

34. Supervision mission: July 1996
     (back-to-office report 8/8/1996; management letter 8/8/1996; aide-memoire; TOR 7/2/1996)

35. Supervision mission: December 1996
     (back-to-office report 1/27/1997; management letter 1/14/1997; aide-memoire; TOR 12/3/1996)

36. Supervision mission: May 1997
     (back-to-office report 7/25/1997; management letter 7/22/1997; aide-memoire; TOR 5/8/1997)

37. Supervision mission: October 1997
     (back-to-office report 12/5/1997; management letter 12/3/1997; aide-memoire; SMO 9/25/1997)

38. Supervision mission: April 1998
     (back-to-office report 6/23/1998; management letter 5/25/1998; aide-memoire; SMO 4/13/1998)

39. Mid-term review: December 1998
     (back-to-office report 1/29/1999; management letter 1/28/1999; aide-memoire; mission
     announcement letter 11/17/1998)

40. Supervision mission: April 1999
     (back-to-office report 5/18/1999; management letter 5/12/1999; aide-memoire 5/4/1999; mission
     announcement 3/12/1999)




                                               - 52 -

41. Supervision mission: September 1999
     (back-to-office report 10/13/1999; aide-memoire; SMO 9/1/1999)

42. Supervision mission: June 2000
     (back-to-office report 6/26/2000; management letter 6/19/2000; aide-memoire 6/15/2000)

43. Supervision mission: November 2000
     (management letter 12/12/2000; aide-memoire; SMO 10/25/2000)

44. Supervision mission: May 2001
     (management letter 6/18/2001; aide-memoire; SMO 4/16/2001)

45. Supervision mission: November 2002
     (management letter 12/4/2002; aide-memoire)

46. Supervision mission: June 2003
     (back-to-office report 7/15/2003; management letter 6/19/2003; aide-memoire; SMO 5/28/2003)

47. ICR mission: October 2003
     (management letter 11/4/2003; aide-memoire; SMO 9/23/2003)




                                              - 53 -

Additional Annex 8. Maps




                       Map IBRD 25106          pak25106.pdf




                      Map IBRD 25107           PAK25107.pdf




                                      - 54 -

- 55 -

