Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3965 PAK
                               Loan  Agreement
                     (Ghazi-Barotha Hydropower Project)
                                   between
                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated March 7, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3965 PAK
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated  March 7, 1996, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN  acting by its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Water and
Power Development Authority of Pakistan (WAPDA) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to WAPDA the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain funds from the
following sources (the Cofinanciers) in the following amounts
or equivalent (the Cofinancing Funds) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
(the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Cofinanciers:
      Asian Development Bank (ADB)    -    $300,000,000 (the ADB Loan)
Page  2
      Overseas Economic Cooperation
        Fund (OECF)                   -    $350,000,000 (the OECF Loan)
      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau -
        (KfW)                         -    $150,000,000 (the KfW Loan)
      European Investment Bank (EIB)  -    $60,000,000 (the EIB Loan)
      Islamic Development Bank (IDB)  -    $40,000,000 (the IDB Loan) and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
WAPDA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "WAPDA" means the Water and Power Development
Authority of  Pakistan, established and existing under the
WAPDA Act, and any successor thereto;
      (b)   "WAPDA Act" means the Borrower's Water and Power
Development Authority Act, 1958, as amended by the Borrower's
Water and Power Development Authority (Amendment) Act of 1994,
and as may be further amended from time to time;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and WAPDA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political subdivision of the Borrower;
      (g)   "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower;
      (h)   "Sindh" means the Province of Sindh, a political
subdivision of the Borrower;
      (i)   "Balochistan" means the Province of Balochistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower;
      (j)   "Provinces" mean NWFP, Punjab, Sindh and Balochistan
collectively;
      (k)   "POE" means the Panel of Technical Experts, which
WAPDA has established for the purposes of the Project and will
maintain until the completion of the Project, all to the
satisfaction of the Bank;
Page  3
      (l)   "ERP" means the Environment and Resettlement Panel,
which WAPDA has established for the purposes of the Project and
will maintain until the completion of the Project, all to the
satisfaction of the Bank;
      (m)   "ADB Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and ADB providing for the ADB Loan;
      (n)   "OECF Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and OECF providing for the OECF Loan;
      (o)   "KfW Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and KfW providing for the KfW Loan;
      (p)   "EIB Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and EIB providing for the EIB Loan;
      (q)   "IDB Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and IDB providing for the IDB Loan;
      (r)   "Environment Mitigation and Monitoring Plan" means
the plan furnished by the Borrower to, and agreed with, the
Bank as of September 1995, for purposes of monitoring and
mitigating the environmental impact of the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank;
      (s)   "RAP I" means the resettlement action plan furnished
by WAPDA to, and agreed with, the Bank as of September 1994 for
purposes of Part A of the Project, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
      (t)   "RAP II" means the resettlement action plan to be
furnished by WAPDA to, and agreed with, the Bank pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement for purposes of Part B of the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank;
      (u)   "Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAPS" mean
collectively RAP I and RAP II;
      (v)   "Integrated Regional Development Plan" means the plan
to be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement for purposes of carrying out Part C (3) of the
Project;
      (w)   "km" means kilometer;
      (x)   "MW" means megawatt;
      (y)   "kV" means kilovolt;
      (z)   "FY" or "financial year" means the Borrower's or
WAPDA's financial year, as the case may be, covering the period
July 1 through June 30; and
      (aa)  "Rs" or "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred fifty million
dollars ($350,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Page  4
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to,
                   but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                   occurring thereafter, and after the initial
                   period, each period from and including an
                   Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the
                   next following Interest Payment Date.
            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                   specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
           (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for reach
                   Interest Period, the London interbank offered
                   rate for six-month deposits in dollars for
                   value the first day of such Interest Period
                   (or, in the case of the initial Interest
                   Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
                   occurring on or next preceding the first day of
                   such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
                   by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum.
            (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                   Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of
                   1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average
                   margin, for such Interest Period, below (or
                   above) the London interbank offered rates, or
                   other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
                   in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
                   or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
                   fund single currency loans or portions thereof
                   made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
                   determined by the Bank and expressed as a
Page  5
                   percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly
upon the determination thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to
in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply
a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the
Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
September 15 and March 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Chairman, WAPDA is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, cause WAPDA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
WAPDA therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable WAPDA
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend  the proceeds of the Loan
to WAPDA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WAPDA, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include
the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
Page  6
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by WAPDA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
                        Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall take all action
necessary or appropriate to enable WAPDA to implement the
Page  7
recommendations of the Borrower's ongoing domestic resource
mobilization (DRM) study insofar as it relates to WAPDA, as
agreed with the Bank, not later than December 31, 1996.
      Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take all action
necessary or appropriate to enable WAPDA to establish under
Part D.1(b) of the Project, to the satisfaction of the Bank and
not later than December 31, 1998, a subsidiary corporate entity
to assume responsibility for transmission and dispatch of
power.
      Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall take steps, satisfactory
to the Bank, to complete the reorganization and corporatization
of WAPDA into a holding company with decentralized generation,
transmission and distribution subsidiaries by December 31
1998.
      Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall, under guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, with immediate effect, authorize
WAPDA to:
      (a)   automatically adjust the fuel adjustment surcharge
            (FAS) or any other component of its electricity
            tariff as and when needed to ensure full recovery of
            fuel costs;
      (b)   from time to time, adjust its electricity tariff to
            ensure full recovery of profits payable to the
            Provinces on the bulk generation of hydroelectric
            power, and to pay out as such profits only those
            amounts as shall have been collected for payment of
            such profits; and
      (c)   from time to time, adjust its electricity tariff
            rates charged to its various consumer categories, in
            performance of its obligations under Section 4.04 of
            the Project Agreement.
      Section 4.06.  The Borrower shall cause all federal and
provincial governmental  agencies and departments to settle all
bills for the supply of electricity by WAPDA within three months
of receipt of such bills.
      Section 4.07.  (a)  The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all action necessary or appropriate to ensure that the
financing of the Project will not adversely affect the
Borrower's ability to continue to fund its Core Public Sector
Development Program and Social Action Program, as discussed and
reviewed with the Bank on an annual basis.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "Core Public Sector Development
                   Program" means a program consisting of those
                   high-priority investment projects and programs
                   to be carried out by the Borrower or any of its
                   political subdivisions, departments or agencies
                   which are protected against future budgetary
                   cuts by the Borrower resulting in reductions in
                   the allocation of funds, facilities, services
                   and other resources required for the carrying
                   out of such projects and programs.
            (ii)   The term "Social Action Program" means the
                   program which the Borrower has initiated with
                   the assistance of the International Development
                   Association and other donors, consisting of
                   high-priority projects and programs to be
                   carried out by the Borrower or any of its
                   political subdivisions, departments or agencies
                   in the primary education, primary health,
                   population welfare and rural water supply and
Page  8
                   sanitation sectors.
      Section 4.08.  The Borrower shall, not later than March 31
in each year, review with the Bank, WAPDA's updated five-year
rolling investment program covering the current year, the last
preceding year and the next three following years, with a view
to enabling the Bank to satisfy itself that the program remains
consistent with the Borrower's macro-economic targets.
      Section 4.09.  The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1996, introduce a set of policies, including an appropriate
solicitation mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, which will
ensure that new power plants are sanctioned in accordance with
the latest demand forecasts, so that power supply capacity
requirements are satisfied on a timely basis.
      Section 4.10.  The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1996, review the incentives offered by it to attract private
investment to the power sector, particularly in the form of
exemptions from income and other taxes, and, based on such
review, shall  announce and introduce, not later than December
31, 1996, a new set of such incentives, satisfactory to the
Bank, under which such exemptions will no longer be provided as
part of such incentives.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   WAPDA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that WAPDA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The WAPDA Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of WAPDA  to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of WAPDA or for the suspension of its
operations.
      (e)   The Borrower or WAPDA or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have failed to carry out, in whole or in
part, the action plan referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement.
      (f)   The KfW Loan Agreement and  the EIB Loan Agreement
shall have failed to become effective by September 30, 1996 or
the IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1997, or such later date in each case as the Bank
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
      (g)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower
                         for the financing of the Project shall
                         have been suspended, canceled or
Page  9
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor; or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that:  (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                   under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                   for the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                   under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of that
paragraph; and
      (d)   the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and WAPDA;
      (b)   the ADB Loan Agreement and the OECF Loan Agreement
have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent
to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
      (c)   a survey has been carried out to determine the status
of outstanding claims of persons affected by the Tarbela Dam
project on the Indus River, and an action plan has been agreed
with the Bank to settle those claims and to redress the
legitimate grievances, if any, arising from those claims, of
such persons on a timely basis.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by WAPDA, and is legally binding upon
WAPDA  in accordance with its terms; and
Page  10
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and WAPDA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and WAPDA  in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that Division
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad
            Pakistan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ECONOMIC                952-5634
                   Islamabad
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                   By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  11
                   By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                 South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                   Dollars)         to be Financed
(1)  Works, installation and
     erection
     (a)  for Part A.2 of      250,000,000       70%
          the Project
     (b)  for Part A.3 of       45,000,000       15%
          the Project
(2)  Equipment and               2,000,000       100% of foreign
     materials                                   expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost) and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(3)  Consultants'                3,000,000       100%
     services
(4)  Interest and               40,000,000       Amounts due
     other charges                               pursuant to
     on the Loan                                 Section 2.02 (c)
     accrued on or before                        of this Agreement
     September 14, 2002
(5)  Unallocated                10,000,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                 350,000,000
                               ===========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of  payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $35,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories
(1) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after October 1, 1995.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods and works under contracts not exceeding
$1,000,000 equivalent, and for consultants' services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, in the case of
firms, and $50,000, in the case of individuals, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
Page  12
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) develop domestic
energy resources in a cost effective and environmentally
sustainable manner; (b) provide reliable power supply at least
cost to reduce load-shedding and support the country's long-
term energy development objectives; (c) reinforce and
complement the reform program for the power sector; (d)
strengthen WAPDA's capability to address environmental and
resettlement issues related to hydropower projects; and (e)
further rationalize the use of electricity.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Power Generation Facilities
      Construction of power generation facilities comprising:
      (1)   a barrage and ancillary works, located near Ghazi
village downstream of Tarbela Dam in NWFP, including open-flume
standard bays, undersluice bays, a dividing island, and a head
regulator;
      (2)   a concrete-lined power channel, about 52 km. long and
with a capacity of 1,600 cubic meters per second (cumecs), and
ancillary works, including about 33 bridges, about 45 cross
drainage structures, and fencing along selected parts of the
channel alignment; and
      (3)   a power complex and ancillary works, located near
Barotha village at the confluence of the Indus and Haro rivers
in Punjab, with an installed generating capacity of about 1,450
MW based on 5 units of about 290 MW each.
Part B:    Power Transmission Facilities
      Construction of power transmission facilities to connect
the power complex constructed under Part A of the Project to
the interconnected grid, consisting of:
      (1)   two 500 kV transmission lines about 100 km long, from
Barotha village to Rewat village, and related substations; and
      (2)   about 140 km of 500 kV loop in and out of the
existing 500 kV Tarbela-Gatti line at Barotha village.
Part C:    Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement Management
      Carrying out by WAPDA of measures to:
      (1)   monitor and mitigate the environmental impact of the
Project in accordance with the Environment Mitigation and
Monitoring Plan;
      (2)   compensate, resettle and rehabilitate persons
affected by the Project in accordance with the Resettlement
Action Plans; and
      (3)   generally uplift the social and economic conditions
of the area affected by the Project, inter alia, through the
provision of improved social services and access to credit for
agricultural, business and industrial development, in
accordance with the Integrated Regional Development Plan.
Part D:    Institutional Development and Technical Assistance
1.    Establishment by WAPDA of:
      (a)   a Project entity, with separate
            management, operations and financial accounts,
            within the framework of WAPDA's restructuring
Page  13
            and corporatization program being implemented
            under the Power Sector Development Project
            (Loan No. 3764 PAK); and
      (b)   a subsidiary corporate entity to be
            responsible for transmission and dispatch of
            power.
2.    Provision of technical assistance to WAPDA for:
      (a)    strengthening of WAPDA's environment and
             resettlement-related capabilities;
      (b)    strengthening its demand side management
             (DSM) capabilities;
      (c)    having its accounts audited by private
             auditors; and
      (d)    having its self-insurance scheme reviewed
             by actuaries.
                               *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (Expressed in dollars)
September 15, 2001                                    7,280,000
March 15, 2002                                        7,505,000
September 15, 2002                                    7,735,000
March 15, 2003                                        7,970,000
September 15, 2003                                    8,215,000
March 15, 2004                                        8,465,000
September 15, 2004                                    8,725,000
March 15, 2005                                        8,995,000
September 15, 2005                                    9,270,000
March 15, 2006                                        9,550,000
September 15, 2006                                    9,845,000
March 15, 2007                                       10,145,000
September 15, 2007                                   10,460,000
March 15, 2008                                       10,780,000
September 15, 2008                                   11,110,000
March 15, 2009                                       11,450,000
September 15, 2009                                   11,800,000
March 15, 2010                                       12,160,000
September 15, 2010                                   12,535,000
March 15, 2011                                       12,920,000
September 15, 2011                                   13,315,000
March 15, 2012                                       13,725,000
September 15, 2012                                   14,145,000
March 15, 2013                                       14,575,000
September 15, 2013                                   15,025,000
March 15, 2014                                       15,485,000
September 15, 2014                                   15,960,000
March 15, 2015                                       16,450,000
September 15, 2015                                   16,950,000
March 15, 2016                                       17,455,000
                                 SCHEDULE 4
             Terms and Conditions of Relending of Loan Proceeds
      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and
conditions of relending of the proceeds of the Loan to WAPDA
shall be:
Page  14
      (a)   Interest rate:
            (i)  during the construction of the Project, a
                 variable rate equal to the sum of the prevailing
                 World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 150
                 basis points; and
           (ii)  after completion of construction of the
                 Project, a variable rate equal to the sum of the
                 prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread
                 of 350 basis points.
          (iii)  For the purposes of this provision,
                 "World Bank Lending Rate" shall mean the rate as
                 defined in Section 2.05 (a) of this Agreement.
      (b)   Amortization             up to 23 years
            period:                  including a grace
                                     period of up to 8 years
      (c)   Principal                the aggregate equivalent of
            be repaid:               amount to the amounts in various
                                     currencies withdrawn from the
                                     Loan Account, calculated in dollars
                                     as of the respective dates of
                                     withdrawal and expressed in rupees
                                     determined as of the respective
                                     dates of repayment
                                  SCHEDULE 5
                                Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount of $8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed  $100,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
Page  15
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and otherevidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
Page  16
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
