Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15871
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS RERABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1991-UG
June 24, 1996
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:     Uganda Shilling (Ush)
US$1.00 = Ushs. 150 ( January21, 1989)
US$1.00 = Ushs. 989 (February 19. 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
Government and UPTC: July I - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAC          -     East African Community
EAPTC        -     East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
GOU          -     Government of Uganda
MoWTC        -     Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications
UPTC         -     Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
INTELSAT   -       International Satellite Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
Table of Contents
Paye No.
Preface         ..............................................................................................        iii
Evaluation  Summary  .................................................                                                iv
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives--------------------------------------                                               1
B.  Achievement of Objectives-----------------------------------------------------                                            2
Structural Set-Up and  Policy  Statement ---------------------------------                                        2
Physical and Operational Achievements -------------------------------------                                             2
Completion  Schedule -------------------------------------------------------                                      2
Project Costs and Financing -----------------------------------------------                                       2
Operational Performance---------------------------------------------------                                        3
Institutional Achievemea  -----------------------------------------------------                                         3
Institutional Development Program   --------------------------------------                                        3
Training-----------------------------------------------------------------------                                   4
Finance and Audit ---------------------------------------------------------------                                       4
Financial Performance------------------------------------------------------                                       4
Billing-------------------------------------------------------------------------                                  5
Collection---------------------------------------------------------------------                                   6
Tariffs-------------------------------------------------------------------------                                  6
Accounts and Audits--------------------------------------------------------                                       7
C.  Major Factors Affecting  the Project--------------------------------------                                          7
Factors Not Generally subject to Government Control----------------                                               7
Factors Generally subject to Government and UPTC's Control -----                                                  7
Management Conflicts------------------------------------------------------                                        8
Procurement------------------------------------------------------------------                                     8
Lack of Computer Facilities -----------------------------------------------                                       9
Lack of sufficient Manpower----------------------------------------------                                         9
dis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
PaLye No.
D. ProjectSustainabilit --------------------------------------------------9--       -          9
E. Bank Perfomnance -----------------------------------------------------------i--             9
F.                                                                                            102rower Performance ----------------------------------------------------------  I 0
G    Assessment of Outcome--------------------------------------------------------            10
H. Futur  Operation-----------------------------------------------------------------         I11
Operational Plan-------------------------------------------------------------        11
Financial and Economic Rate of Retun --------------------------------                I I
I.  Key Lessons Learned------------------------------------------------------------           II
J.  Implementation of Sector Reforms ......................................................   12
ANNEX A          Statistical Tahles,
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Future Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIXES
Appendix 1: ICR Mission Aide Memoire of October 1994
Appendix 2: ICR Mission Aide Memoire of October 1995
Appendix 3: Borrower's Evaluation
Map of Uganda



, -                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-111 -
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Telecommunications
Project in Uganda for which Credit 1991-UG in the amount of SDR 38.3 million (US$
52.3 million) was approved on March 14, 1989, signed on December 20, 1989, and made
effective on June 5, 1990.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1993, after two extensions. Final disbursement took place on
March 14, 1996, and a balance of SDR 1.9 million was canceled on April 24, 1996.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Rogati Kayani, IENTI, and reviewed by Messrs.
Luciano Borin, Acting Chief, Public and Private Enterprise Division; Mr. Aberra
Zerabruk, Country Lawyer; Mr. Palitha Wijesinghe, Country Disbursement Officer; and
Gerhard Tschannerl, Acting Project Adviser, Eastern Africa Department.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission of
October 1994 and continued in the final supervision mission of October 1995. The
borrower's own evaluation of the project's execution is attached as Appendix 3.






-iv-
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    During the 1978-79 civil war in  Uganda, postal and telecommunications
facilities suffered extensive damage. At Government's request, under its 1982-87
Economic Recovery and Rehabilitation Program to overcome the ravages of the civil
war in major sectors, a First Posts and Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project
under Credit 1367-UG of SDR 20.4 million (US$ 22.0 million) was implemented from
1983 to 1987. Implementation was severely affected and delayed due to the resurgence
of internal civil conflicts in 1985-86. Some completed components were destroyed or
looted.
The Project
2.    The Second Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1991-UG of
SDR 38.3 million (S$ 52.3 million), was identified in 1985 during implementation of
the First Project. Appraisal took place in 1988 after substantial delays due to more
civil unrest in the country. The main thrust of the project focused on:
(a) rehabilitating or replacing/expanding telecommunications network, equipment and
plant in the high priority areas; and (b) institutional development of Uganda Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC) to provide a sound basis for future
development of the sector.
3.    Two main components were included in the project to meet the above
objectives: (a) physical component consisting of rehabilitation of the external cable
networks for Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe (60% of total funds) and purchase of essential
materials, transport facilities, and spare parts for installation of new subscribers and
maintenance of the network; and (b) institutional component consisting of consultancy
services for designing and implementing requisite management systems, twinning and
training.
Major Implementation Issue
4.    Completion of the project was delayed for more than two years because of
conflicts between the Board of Directors and the management of UPTC. This was the
single most serious issue in the project. For three years (November 1990-November
1993) the project operated under very difficult conditions. The project was proceeding
satisfactorily until November 1990 when a new Board was appointed. The new Board
decided to run the Corporation on a day to day basis leading to severe conflicts between
management and the Board. These conflicts led to long delays in processing of
procurement documents and unsubstantiated dismissal of key project implementation
personnel. In September 1992, a Commission of Inquiry was set up by the Minister of



Works, Transport and Communications (MoWTC) to investigate the problems at UPTC.
The Commission's recommendations led to replacement of most of the Board members in
November 1993 and dismissal, in March 1994, of those members of management who
had aligned themselves with the Board. The key project personnel that had been
dismissed were reinstated at the same time. The Government took almost three years to
resolve this issue and on hindsight, IDA should have suspended disbursements as soon as
the problem was identified early in 1991 to expedite resolution of this problem.
Achievement
5.    Overall, the project was satisfactory but there were a number of failures on the
institution building aspects. The most significant achievement of the project was on the
physical side. The following sub-components were successfully completed:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of the external cable networks at Kampala, Jinja and
Entebbe - this involved the complete replacement of old fault-prone paper insulated
copper cable by modern jelly filled copper cable and optical fiber cables;
(b) rehabilitation of the Mpoma Earth Station for international services; (c) installation
of Digital Multiple Access Radio rural systems; and (d) procurement of telephones,
teleprinters, fax machines, vehicles, generators, cables and postal items (date stamps, mail
bags, weighing scales, private letter boxes and safes). The completion of these sub-
components led to operational improvements in the rate of subscriber connection and
the quality of service. However, the quality of service performance targets set at
appraisal could not be achieved essentially because these were too ambitious for the
implementation capacity of UPTC.
6.    Although the profitability and cash flow of UPTC improved continuously
throughout the project, overall financial performance and management still leaves a lot
to be desired. At the beginning of the project in FY89, UPTC was incurring operating
losses but due to the implementation of requisite tariff increases recommended by the
project, UPTC has since realized annual operating surplus. At the beginning, in FYs
89, 90 and 91, foreign exchange losses turned these surpluses to operating losses. In
FYs 92, 93, 94 and 95, the UPTC made profits after taking into account foreign
exchange losses/gains. The highest net profit was realized in FY94 following foreign
exchange gains due to appreciation of the Uganda shilling relative to the dollar.
7.    There were no major achievements on the institutional side as UPTC's
management and staff remain weak. However, some modest improvements were
achieved through the project including: (a) revision and implementation of a new
commercially oriented organization structure including the creation of a new
department responsible for Corporate Planning and Management Information Systems;
(b) employment of three qualified accountants to fill senior financial management
positions of Director Finance, Chief Accountant and Principal Accountant Finance and
Revenue; (c) increase of salaries and benefits as incentives to improve productivity and



-vi-
efficiency, the UPTC is now in the process of introducing a performance related pay
structure; (d) strengthening of the critical supplies management function; and
(e) formulation of a human resource management strategy including manpower
planning, training and development and performance appraisal. Substantial training was
also undertaken through twinning and fellowships, although this was delayed by more
than two years.
Project Sustainability
8.    As a result of the project, the telecommunications network more than doubled in
size and the quality of service improved leading to increased benefits from
telecommunications services to the overall economy. This will lead to more revenue
for UPTC, not only due to the increased size of the network but also due to the
enhanced quality of service which will result in more revenue per line being generated
than before. The financial benefits to be accrued to the project will enable future
expansion and further rehabilitation of the network. The institutional capacity that has
been built during the project should lead to better management and efficient operation
of the telecommunications network. The Government is committed to the development
of the sector and is fully aware of the constraints that have hindered its operation and
its rapid development. These constraints have mainly been the lack of capital and poor
management. In order to overcome these constraints, the GOU has decided to privatize
UPTC. The management of UPTC will therefore soon be handed to the private sector.
This will enable maximum and efficient utilization of the newly installed assets.
Sustainability of the benefits accrued from the project will therefore be secured if this
policy decision is effectively implemented.
Sector Reform
9.    Although sector reform was not formally a part of this project, IDA supervision
missions started, in 1990, to discuss the impending sector reform and liberalization of the
telecommunications sector. It was emphasized at that time that a follow-on project would
be conditional on GOU's willingness to reform the sector. Policy dialogue with the GOU
started in late 1990 but was interrupted by the Board-Management conflicts which fully
occupied supervision missions in 1991 and 1992. The Commission of Inquiry which
went on between October 1992 and March 1993 exposed management weaknesses at
UPTC and this partly contributed to the GOU's decision, in May 1993, to privatize the
telecommunications part of the UPTC. IDA has assisted the GOU to formulate an
appropriate policy and strategy for restructuring and privatizing the telecommunications
sector. The policy include, inter alia, separation of UPTC into three entities for posts,
telecommunications and regulatory affairs; full liberalization of all value added services;
privatization of the telecommunications entity; and licensing of a second national
operator to compete with the privatized telecommunications entity. IDA is now working
with the GOU to implement this policy. The emergence and pursuit of this policy



-vii-
dialogue during implementation is an important project outcome which should provide
for substantial benefits to Uganda in the future.



UGANDA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Introduction
1.    Public Telecommunications services in Uganda are provided by the Uganda Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC), a fully government owned entity operating as a
monopoly under the UPTC Act of 1983. Before 1977, public telecommunications services in the
three countries of the East African Community (EAC), consisting of Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda, were provided by a single entity, the East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (EAPTC). The Bank Group had supported telecommunications development in the
EAC since 1967 through financing three projects, under Loans 493-EA, 675-EA and 914-EA
totaling US$ 55.9 million. These projects were completed in 1974, 1975 and 1977, respectively,
each including components located in Uganda. After the break-up of the EAC, in 1977, the
Government of Uganda (GOU) established the UPTC.
2.    During the 1978-79 civil war in Uganda, postal and telecommunications facilities
suffered extensive damage. At Government's request, under its 1982-87 Economic Recovery and
Rehabilitation Program to overcome the ravages of the civil war in major sectors, a First Posts
and Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project under Credit 1367-UG of SDR 20.4 million
(US$ 22.0 million) was implemented from 1983 to 1987. Implementation was severely affected
and delayed due to the resurgence of internal civil conflicts in 1985-86. Some completed
components were destroyed or looted. The Project Completion and Performance Audit Reports
stress that the physical realization took place, but the operational and organizational objectives
could not be fully met due to unforeseen effects of the civil disturbances on UPTC's staff,
operations and finances.
Objectives
3.    The Second Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1991-UG of SDR 38.3
million (US$ 52.3 million), was identified in 1985 during implementation of the First Project.
Appraisal took place in 1988 after substantial delays due to civil unrest in the country. The main
objective of the project was to provide a sound basis for future development of the sector. The
main thrust was focused towards: (a) rehabilitating or replacing/expanding telecommunications
network, equipment and plant in the high priority areas; and (b) institutional development of
UPTC. The main objective and thrust of the project were appropriate at the time the project was
designed. At that time, the upcoming worldwide trends toward sector liberalization had not yet
gathered momentum. Therefore, the institutional objectives were limited to the domain of the
operating entity; including changes in UPTC's organization and improvements in its management
and operations. The physical project components included: (a) rehabilitation of the local cable



-2-
networks and subscriber facilities in Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja; and (b) provision of
equipment, vehicles, spare parts and materials for telecommunications and postal maintenance
and operations. The technical assistance component of the project included: (a) consultancy
services for project implementation and strengthening UPTC's planning, management and
operational capacity; and (b) training through fellowships and twinning arrangements.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Structural Set-up and Policy Statement
4.    Under its enabling legislation, the Posts and Telecommunications Act of 1983, the UPTC
is required to provide all domestic and international public telecommunications services and to
operate on sound commercial and technical principles, generating sufficient revenues to meet its
expenditures and making a reasonable profit. When the second project was being prepared in
1988, GOU and UPTC adopted a Policy Statement to supplement the institutional roles and
objectives in the Act to serve as a guide to the sector's operations.
5.    During appraisal, it was considered that the Act and the Statement provided a sound basis
for UPTC's ongoing operations and future development, with suitable autonomy and authority to
satisfactorily manage its affairs. Drawing from experience under the First Project, GOU and
UPTC were asked by IDA to prepare a comprehensive institutional development strategy and
related plan of action to strengthen UPTC's institutional capability, and improve its management
and overall performance. Agreement on such a program was a condition of credit effectiveness
and the technical assistance required for its implementation was included in the project. The
project's objectives in this field were only partially met mainly due to conflicts between UPTC's
Board and the management (para 23). In addition, on hind sight, the institutional objectives were
too ambitious for the implementation capacity of UPTC.
Physical and Operational Achievements
6.    Completion Schedule. The following sub-projects were successfully completed:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of the external cable networks at Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe -
this involved the complete replacement of old fault-prone paper insulated copper cable by
modem jelly filled copper cable and optical fiber cables; (b) rehabilitation of the Mpoma Earth
Station; (c) installation of Digital Multiple Access Radio systems for rural areas; and (d)
purchase of essential materials, transport facilities, and spare parts for installation of new
subscribers and maintenance of the network including: telephones, teleprinters, fax machines,
vehicles, generators, cables and postal items (date stamps, mail bags, weighing scale, and safes).
There was one major component that was not completed and that is the installation of a
computerized subscriber's record system and provision of microcomputers. This item was not
completed due to procurement problems discussed in para 24.
7.    Project Costs and Financing. A comparison of the estimated costs of the main project
components, at appraisal and on completion, is shown in Annex A, Table 8A. At the end of the
project, the committed amount was SDR 36.4 (95.1%) of total credit of SDR 38.3. SDR 1.9
million remain uncommitted; the full amount would have been committed if the computer billing
system (para 15) had been procured. The uncommitted amount has been canceled. Generally,



-3-
due to favorable prices as a result of international competitive bidding, the unit costs were lower
than those estimated at appraisal by about 7%. UPTC took advantage of this reduction in price
by procuring additional equipment to meet the ever growing demand.
8.    Operational Performance:  The project has had substantial impact on the rate of
subscriber connection and the quality of service. However, most of the operational targets set at
appraisal (Table 5) for quality of service could not be achieved because they were highly
optimistic. For instance, an average call completion rate (success rate) for local calls was set at
60% but only 49% could be achieved; and percentage of faults cleared within 24 hours was set
at 60% but only 48% could be achieved. At the beginning of the project, the call completion rate
was 30% and the percentage of faults cleared within 24 hours was only 20%. At the completion,
in December 1993, of the external line plant rehabilitation and expansion of Kampala, Jinja and
Entebbe, subscriber verification had to be made before connecting the new network. This was
necessary because there were a lot of "ghost subscribers" in the network. All existing and
prospective subscribers were requested to re-apply/apply for service.
9.    At the beginning of the exercise records showed that there were about 32,000 working
subscribers but after verification the number dropped to 22,000 (compared to 28,000 at the
beginning of the project in 1989). Since this verification two years ago, 20,000 new subscribers
(39% annual growth) have been connected compared to an appraisal target of 18,700 for the
whole project. This high growth was purely a result of completing the external line plant
component which also led to a staff ratio of 48 staff per 1000 lines as per appraisal target. In
addition, there has also been drastic reduction in the number of faulty lines in these three cities.
Before completion of this component, there was an average of 20% of the lines faulty at any time
but this has dropped to an average of 2.1%. In Jinja, an average of 300 faults were carried over
to the next day but after completion of the cable works only about 6 faults are carried forward - a
real improvement. Progress in physical and operational performance of UPTC's network under
the project, and for future operations in accordance with UPTC's operational plan, are shown in
Tables 5 and 6 of Annex A. On the average, the physical and operational achievements were
satisfactory.
Institutional Achievements
10.   The Institutional Development Program  was focused  on restoring  discipline,
accountability and efficiency of UPTC and building capacity through training and twinning. A
number of actions were taken to satisfy the conditions of effectiveness including: (a) revision
and implementation of new organization structure including the creation of a new department
responsible for Corporate Planning and Management Information Systems; and (b) recruitment
of three qualified accountants to fill the posts of Director Finance, Chief Accountant and
Principal Accountant Finance and Revenue. Further actions were taken during the project
including: (a) doubling of salaries and benefits and initiating a process of introducing a
performance related pay structure; (b) strengthening of supplies management through the
assistance of consultants; and (c) putting in place a human resource management strategy
including manpower planning, training and development and performance appraisal. Despite
these actions, which were delayed by more than two years, there was little improvement in the
management of UPTC at the end of the project. This is one of the reasons that the GOU decided



-4-
to privatize the corporation (para 36). The status of implementation of the program's main
aspects is detailed below.
11.   Training. The short term objective of the training program was to meet present needs for
the existing network and the newly installed network. The long term objective was oriented
towards meeting future technological advancement in the sector. In order to fulfill these
objectives studies were carried out, with the assistance of consultants to: (a) determine the staff
needs - the study was completed in March 1994 and implementation of the recommendations was
completed in 1995; and (b) training needs identification and training program design - the study
was completed in December 1992. The recommendations were not implemented until 1994/95
because of conflicts between the Board of Directors and management of UPTC (para 23). Under
this program training was undertaken overseas and locally under a fellowship scheme and
twinning arrangement. The overseas training entailed attending specialized courses which could
not be conducted by local institutions because of either lack of expertise or necessary equipment.
Where a large number of staff had to be trained on the same subject, and training equipment was
available in Uganda, training was conducted in Uganda by invited lecturers from outside the
country. This was particularly true for non-technical courses. Most of the management courses
were undertaken through this arrangement. Overall, a total of 144 UPTC staff benefited from the
overseas fellowship program against a target of 50 staff set at appraisal. Training under twinning
arrangements was also satisfactory with 21 staff being trained compared to a target of 24 staff.
In addition, 265 staff were trained locally at UPTC Training Institute using experts from East and
South African Management Institute (ESAMI) based in Arusha, Tanzania, and African High
Level Training Institute (AFRALTI) based in Nairobi, Kenya.
12.   Finance and Audit: Consultants to undertake a study of the financial and audit systems
in UPTC were appointed at the beginning of the project. Their report extensively covered the
areas of finance and accounts, internal audit and corporate planning, and Management
Information Systems. It provided a comprehensive study of the organization's current situation,
procedures and controls. As required by the terms of reference (TORs), a comprehensive set of
recommendations and procedures were also presented in the report. UPTC is still implementing
these recommendations, but given UPTC's lack of adequate capable manpower, implementation
will be a lengthy and complex process unless consultants are employed to assist in the
implementation. However, this will no longer be an issue after UPTC privatization. As regards
audits, the report did a very good evaluation of needs, but did not produce documentation for the
recommended systems and internal audit programs as required by the TORs. UPTC will have to
prepare the documentation and programs themselves. UPTC has been advised to hire consultants
for assistance. The implementation of the full report is one of the major outstanding items in this
project. According to the report, for a successful implementation of recommended procedures
and controls, all aspects of the accounts and finance need to be computerized therefore requiring
computer training for all finance and accounts personnel. In hind sight, the implementation of
the recommendations should have been part of the original consultancy contract. This forms part
of UPTC's operational plan being undertaken in 1996.
13.  Financial Performance. Although the profitability and cash flow of UPTC improved
year after year, throughout the project, the overall financial performance still leaves a lot to be
desired. The increase in profitability was mainly due to massive increases in tariffs at the
beginning of the project and injection of qualified financial managers. Tariffs were well below



-5-
international rates at the beginning of the project. UPTC realized operating profits in FYs 89, 90
and 91, but foreign exchange losses turned these surpluses to operating losses. Operating profits
in these three years were UShs 1.42 billion, UShs 3.06 billion and UShs 13.24 billion
respectively. In FYs 92, 93 and 94, the UPTC made modest profits after taking into account
foreign exchange losses/gains. Operating profits in these three years were UShs 16.32 billion,
UShs 7.47 billion and UShs 21.41 respectively. The operating profits are normally adjusted
downwards in the audited statements to take into account the fact that UPTC bears the foreign
exchange losses on its foreign currency denominated debt (primarily from IDA). After taking
into account these foreign exchange losses, the audited statements show that profits amounted to
UShs 0.9 billion in FY92 and UShs 5.6 billion in FY93. UPTC enjoyed massive foreign
exchange gain in FY94 leading to a net profit of UShs. 41.4 billion. However, there remains
substantial scope for improving UPTC's financial status. There is a need for UPTC to improve
efficiency, control expenditure and enhance revenue from the expanded and improved network
due to the project.
14.   The draft accounts for FY95 are being audited but preliminary review indicates that
UPTC realized an operating profit of about UShs. 9.8 billion. The profit in FY95 was much
lower than FY94 mainly because UPTC did not enjoy as much foreign exchange gains. Other
reasons include:
(a) Government's failure to pay for services rendered (para 16);
(b) internal control weaknesses in revenue and collection; and
(c)  inadequate marketing for available services. Many would be customers are not
coming forward to apply for service because they think that the service is either not
available or too expensive. The UPTC has now established a marketing function.
(d)  Expenditures were much higher because UPTC is no longer exempted from import
and corporation taxes.
15.   Billing: Billing delays and inaccurate bills persisted throughout the project. There were
two main problems: (a) cumbersome gathering of billing data from old analog exchanges; and
(b) lack of adequate computer facilities. Digitalization and installation of a new computer billing
system are the long term solutions to these problems. Computerization was part of the project
but its implementation was delayed due to Board/Management conflicts (para 23). This item is
being implemented under UPTC's own funding and is expected to be completed before the end
of 1996. There have been a number of steps taken recently to improve billing performance.
UPTC has introduced a weekly billing system for international services for high calling
customers in Kampala such as hotels, oil companies, banks etc.. These customers make about
30% of the total billing volume. The outcome of this exercise has been very rewarding.
Experience has shown that these customers have been paying their bills within one week of
receiving them. An improvement in the accuracy of billing has also been realized due to the
introduction of automatic receptors at the bill paying points in Kampala. Despite these
improvements, average billing delays are poor at 8 weeks compared to an appraisal target of 2
weeks.



-6-
16.   Collection: Government indebtedness has been a problem throughout the project. This
indebtedness grew by 29% during FY94. Although in a commercial enviromnent telephone
service would have been disconnected, there were two reasons why UPTC could not do it.
Firstly, the accuracy of these bills were a suspect (para 15), and secondly, the UPTC was also
indebted to the Government. A number of recommendations were made by various supervision
missions including: (a) strengthening the in-house collection effort and employing external
collection agencies on a commission basis; and (b) bringing to closure, as soon as possible, the
ongoing discussions with the Treasury regarding the settlement of Government's bills. One
possibility under discussion was to offset the loan servicing amounts (on account of IDA loans
being serviced by Government on behalf of UPTC) against the outstanding receivables which the
Government owes UPTC. This would also help to reduce the debt to debt plus equity ratio of
0.94 which was considerably higher than the 0.56 ratio set at appraisal; and (c) settling debts with
other Posts and Telecommunications entities as soon as possible; at the end of June 1994 the net
outstanding was UShs 7.2 billion. UPTC management was slow to take action on all these
recommendations partly due to its weakness and partly due the conflicts with the Board.
Management is now taking actions on all the recommendations.
17.   Four reputable firms have been appointed to assist in the collection of outstanding bills.
One important requirement for such collectors is to have a Fidelity Insurance Guarantee. A
similar exercise had been initiated in 1993 but due to the absence of a Board of Directors, the
recommendations were not implemented. As regards outstanding Government debt, the long
awaited agreement to swap outstanding loan repayments by UPTC with Government telephone
debts was finalized for accounts up to June 30, 1993 but the agreement has yet to be signed. At
June 30, 1994, government indebtedness to UPTC was UShs 20.6 billion and UPTC
indebtedness to GOU was UShs. 19.3 billion. Thus if the swap had been effected for the year
ending June 30, 1994, the net payment to UPTC would have been UShs. 1.3 billion (US$ 1.3
million equivalent). GOU debt to UPTC had grown to about UShs. 23.9 billion at June 30, 1995,
which is 90% of annual revenues compared to an appraisal target of 28%. UPTC has been urged
to follow up closely with GOU so that the swap arrangements can be finalized as soon as
possible. UPTC's performance in this regard has been poor.
18.   Tariffs: Throughout the project, the Government and UPTC have been fully aware of the
importance of regular adjustment of tariffs, especially international tariffs, to compensate for
inflation, currency reform in 1987 and foreign exchange fluctuations. Tariff review became part
of the budget process. In pursuit of this objective, tariffs were increased by 50-500% in July
1988, and again by 50-500% in December 1989. In September 1991 international tariffs were
increased to compensate for exchange rate variations and at the same time these tariffs were
pegged to the US$ so that the rates could automatically vary with the exchange rate of the US$
relative to the Uganda shilling. It is after this adjustment that a net inflow of traffic into Uganda
started because tariffs for calls originating in Uganda became too high. The rationale proposed at
that time was that the tariff increase would reverse a declining trend of incoming to outgoing
calls (which stood at 0.77 at that time) and would result in reduction in debts of some $13
million owed in foreign currencies. The lack of convertibility of the USh to hard currencies was
an important consideration at that time. While the declining trend in traffic has been completely
turned around (it stood at 2.44 in April 1994), this has been achieved largely through depressing
demand. However, given the ability to convert the USh to hard currencies, this is no longer an
issue.



-7-
19.  In July 1993, IDA advised UPTC's management to review its tariff structure and the
possibility of adjusting international tariffs. UPTC made a study of the demand and revenue
estimation model that had been used by the Sultanate of Oman to reduce international tariffs
from levels comparable to those existing in Uganda at that time, to much lower levels, while still
increasing overall revenues. A study tour was made to develop in-depth knowledge of the Oman
forecasting model. The visit resulted in new tariff proposals which were implemented in May
1994, with international tariffs being decreased by about 47% and a general increase in domestic
tariffs being effected. In August 1995, international tariffs were further reduced by 25% and
domestic tariffs increased. The financial impact of these tariff adjustments has not been fully
assessed yet but international traffic has gone up. The new international rates could be
considered as reasonable for the time being, pending analysis of their impact on total revenue.
The impact of the new tariff structure and levels on service usage and revenue will be carefully
analyzed by UPTC in 1996.
20.   Accounts and Audits: The UPTC has consistently been late in finalizing its accounts
and audits due to inadequate qualified manpower and a completely manual accounting system.
The manpower situation improved substantially due to efforts made during the project; there
were only 6 staff with accounting qualifications at the beginning of the project compared to 20
now. The UPTC Act as well as the Audit Covenants stipulated in the Project Agreement require
that UPTC accounts are audited within six months of the fiscal year end. Auditing of the FY94
accounts was completed in May 1995, five months behind schedule. Although the quality of the
FY94 accounts has improved compared to those of FY92 and FY93, in the opinion of the
Auditor General, the quality still requires improvements. The FY95 draft financial statements
were completed in January 1996 and auditing was expected to be completed in April 1996 but
this is still outstanding. These delays will be eliminated only after full computerization of the
accounts function.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
21.   Devaluation. In the early period of the project when the Uganda shilling was very
volatile, the UPTC suffered heavy foreign exchange losses due to devaluations and as a result,
UPTC could not realize any operating profit in the first three years of the project. In addition,
UPTC's foreign debt in Uganda shilling soared during this period leading to the unsustainable
debt to equity ratio of 0.94. In FY94, the Uganda shilling appreciated relative to the US$ leading
to higher operating profit (para 13-14).
Factors Generally Subject to Government and UPTC's Control
22.   This project was implemented under very trying conditions. The major problem was the
conflicts between the Board of Directors and UPTC Management (para 23). The GOU took
three years to resolve this issue, which was definitely too long. Other problems included:
procurement; lack of sufficient qualified technical and financial staff; and lack of computer
facilities. The modest success realized in this project has been due to full commitment of the



-8-
Ministry of Works Transport and Communications and some of UPTC's management. IDA's
guidance, persistence and firmness during supervision also played a very important role.
23.   Management Conflicts: For three years (November 1990-November 1993) the project
operated under very difficult conditions.  The project was proceeding satisfactorily until
November 1990 when a new Board was appointed. The new Board decided to run the
Corporation on a day to day basis leading to severe conflicts between management and the
Board. These conflicts led to long delays in processing of procurement documents and
unsubstantiated dismissal of key project implementation personnel.  The contract for the
rehabilitation of the external line plant for Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe (60% of the project) was
affected most by these conflicts. The contract was supposed to have been completed 26 months
after effectiveness, i.e. October 1992. Implementation of this contract encountered serious
setbacks due to what was later found out to be deliberate frustration by the Board of Directors.
The Board was appointed three months after contract effectiveness. Firstly, it refused to approve
the revised drawings after detailed survey by the contractor because the survey led to an increase
of 3% of the contract price. Although this increase was within the range allowed in the contract
the Board rejected the revised plans. The Board also started to reject payment applications for
work already done by the contractor. Some members of management aligned themselves with
the Board and others with the Managing Director. These problems led to serious delays. In
September 1992, a Commission of Inquiry was set up by the Minister of Works, Transport and
Communications (MoWTC) to investigate the problems at UPTC. The Board was suspended
shortly thereafter. The Minister then took direct control of UPTC management. The
Commission's recommendations led to replacement of most of the Board members in November
1993 and dismissal, in March 1994, of those members of management who had aligned
themselves with the Board. The conflicts led to more than one year delay in completing the
external line plant contract. The contract was eventually completed in December 1993 and all
associated benefits from the project were equally delayed. In addition, UPTC had to pay a
penalty of about US$ 420,000, from internally generated funds, to compensate the contractor for
the delays. Implementation of the institutional development program (twinning and training,
improvement of financial management and audit) was also delayed by these conflicts.
24.   Procurement: Besides the procurement problems caused by the Board of Directors there
were procurement problems which delayed project completion. There were two main causes for
these delays. Firstly a number of bids had to be re-issued because of controversies on bid
evaluation reports. For instance bids for the external line plant cable network for Kampala,
Entebbe and Jinja had to be re-issued because the original award recommendation was queried
by IDA and the Government of Uganda. Almost a whole year was lost due to this controversy.
During the time that key implementation staff were dismissed by the Board, the quality of
procurement documents (bidding and evaluation reports) deteriorated so much that practically
every document had to be re-done. For instance, the evaluation report for rural radio systems
which were urgently required, had to be re-done, a process that took so long that the bids had to
be re-issued a year later. The evaluation report for the computer billing system was also highly
flawed. The tender for this system could not be re-issued because there was not sufficient time
available for implementation before the closing date. The billing system could not therefore be
procured under this project.



-9-
25.   Lack of Computer Facilities: The lack of computer facilities was the main cause of
delayed accounts, audits, billing and collection. All these activities had to be done manually,
leading to delays and inaccuracies. Although this problem was supposed to have been resolved
during the project, this was not achieved due to delays in project implementation caused by
management conflicts and procurement problems (paras 23 and 24). It is expected that this key
sub-component for good financial management will be substantially implemented in 1996 using
UPTC's own internal cash generation.
26.   Lack of sufficient manpower: The lack of adequate trained manpower, especially on
the finance side, was a major bottleneck to the full achievement of project objectives. The lack
of manpower was partly responsible for delays in completion of annual accounts.
D. Project Sustainability
27.   As a result of the project, the network more than doubled and the quality of service
substantially increased, leading to increased benefits from telecommunications services to the
overall economy. This will lead to more revenue for UPTC, not only due to the increased size'of
the network but also due to the enhanced quality of service which will result in more revenue per
line being generated than before. The financial benefits to be accrued to the project will enable
future expansion and further rehabilitation of the network. The institutional capacity that has
been built during the project should lead to better management and more efficient operation of
the telecommunications network. The Government is committed to the development of the
sector and is fully aware of the constraints that have hindered its operation and its rapid
development. These constraints have mainly been the lack of capital and weak management. In
order to overcome these constraints, the GOU has decided to privatize UPTC (para 36). The
management of UPTC will therefore soon be handed to the private sector. This will enable
maximum and efficient utilization of the newly installed assets. Sustainability of the benefits
accrued from the project will therefore be secured if this policy decision is effectively
implemented.
E. Bank Performance
28.  IDA identified the project at a very difficult time (in 1985) when the security situation in
Uganda was still very uncertain. Preparation and appraisal was completed when security was
restored with the assumption of power by the new Government. IDA worked closely with the
Government and UPTC to identify the main sector issues and constraints to project
implementation.  A number of actions were proposed as up-front conditionalities to ensure
timely implementation of the project including: (i) employment of project management
consultants under a Project Preparation Facility; (ii) award of the external line rehabilitation
contract (60% of the project); and (iii) preparation of an institutional development plan, as
conditions of effectiveness. These conditions were met with some delays, partly because of the
procurement problems outlined above (para 24), and due to the lack of capacity in UPTC to
prepare the necessary documents. After the above conditions were met, the Credit was effective
on June 5, 1990. On hindsight, the lack of implementation capacity was underestimated and the
targets (para 8) set were too ambitious.



-10-
29.  In the first six months the project took off very well. On appointment of the new Board
(November 1990) delays started occurring in processing procurement documents. IDA quickly
identified the cause of the problem as the Board and brought it to the attention of the Minister of
Works, Transport and Communications. IDA also met the Board at the beginning of the
conflicts and expressed its concerns about management complaints about the Board being the
cause of delays in project implementation. The Board did nothing to correct the situation which
continued until its resolution as per para 23. Fortunately most of the procurement had been done
up-front, otherwise most of the components would not have been completed by now. IDA made
regular supervision missions and provided the necessary advice during the conflicts and stood
firm against elements that were delaying the project. At one time, IDA was considering
suspending disbursement due to violation of legal covenants and unnecessary delays in
processing procurement documents. However, due to the good working relationship between
IDA and the MoWTC, this was avoided because the MoTWC moved quickly towards resolving
these specific problems. IDA and MoWTC worked closely together to resolve the above
conflicts. IDA management was kept fully aware of these problems that eventually led to the
need to request for two extensions of closing date. On hindsight, IDA should have suspended
disbursements shortly after identifying the problem; this might have speeded up its resolution by
the GOU (para 31).
30.   The above actions in project supervision were coordinated and combined with other Bank
operations in Uganda involving the telecommunications sector, such as the Northern
Reconstruction Project (NURP) and the IDA Enterprise Development Project (EDP). These two
operations were used as instruments to implement some of the covenants in the Second
Telecommunications Project. For instance, the submission of audited financial accounts was
made a condition of disbursement for the NURP project.
F. Borrower Performance
31.   The GOU and UPTC worked very closely with IDA during project preparation and
supervision. However, the performance of UPTC deteriorated in 1991 and 1992 due to
Board/management conflicts.  These conflicts were first highlighted in the April 1991
Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. IDA kept on highlighting this problem until September
1992 when the Board was suspended and the Minister of Works Transport and Communications
took over direct control of UPTC management. The performance of UPTC then improved
substantially. The matter was eventually put to rest in March 1994 when the new Board
(appointed in November 1993) re-instated the project staff that had been dismissed and
dismissing those members of management who had collaborated with the old Board. It therefore
took three years from the time the matter was highlighted by IDA, which was far too long. The
matter took so long because the problem was put in the hands of a Commission of Inquiry
(headed by a high court judge) which applied court proceedings to conduct the investigations.
G. Assessment of Outcome
32.   On the average, the Project outcome is satisfactory, though its implementation was
delayed and subject to multiple unforeseen circumstances. Most of the physical objectives had
been achieved at closing, December 31, 1995. Modest achievements were also realized in
institution building though implementation of a large part of this component was effectively



-11-
delayed by more than two years. The management studies that were carried out have assisted the
GOU  and UPTC  to re-focus on efficiency improvement.  Implementation  of the
recommendations of these studies have led to the reorganization of UPTC into a more customer
oriented commercial entity. Recently, a new organization structure was put in place and senior
positions were filled through competition within and outside the UPTC.
H. Future Operations
33.   Operational Plan. UPTC has prepared its Operational Plan for the period FY 96 to FY
2001 during which the benefits from the project would be maximized. The plan reflects the
overall delay of about 2 years in completing the project and having the new assets in operation.
The working line capacities of 47,000 subscribers initially appraised to be reached in 1994 will
be realized in 1996/97. By then, the additional capacity of the local networks from the project,
and using available and additional switching capacities, a yearly growth of 15% in the number of
customers will be maintained On the revenue side, current turnover per line is about 5% higher
than at project inception. No assumption has been made on the impact of the new tariffs but
experience shows that improved tariff structure increases usage. Given the decision of the
Government to privatize the UPTC, the operational plan prepared by UPTC is likely to 'be
completely modified by the private management which is expected to be in place within the next
one year. The management of the assets provided under this project will be undertaken by the
new private owner who will provide the necessary expertise to maximize the benefits accrued
from the project (para 36).
34.   Financial and Economic Rate of Return. With the above assumptions in network
growth and usage, the estimated Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is 14.9% compared to 10.6%
estimated at appraisal. The higher figure is mainly due to delayed investments in the non-
revenue generating items (training and twinning) and the implementation of higher tariffs than
estimated at appraisal. The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 18.1% compared to
14.3% estimated at appraisal. The ERR understates the benefits. It does not take into account
consumer surplus and external benefits to non-users of the network. The ERR is higher than IRR
because corporate and other applicable taxes have been excluded to determine benefits used in
the calculation of the ERR. This is consistent with the methodology used in the Appraisal
Report. The estimated rates of return are satisfactory though slightly lower than the average for
telecommunications projects in general because a large part of the investments were for
replacement rather than expansion. The expansion element was only about 50%.
I. Key Lessons Learned
35.   There are two lessons to be learnt from this project: (a) the sector investment
programming approach is a failure if it does not adequately take into account the underlying
implementation weaknesses (para 28). Even with the best investment, if the implementation
entity does not have the right incentives to perform, the sustainability of the investments is
questionable; and (b) the Board and Management of a public entity could have diverse objectives
(para 23). In this project, most of the Management was committed to the successful completion
of the project but the Board intentionally frustrated Management's efforts. IDA should have
suspended disbursements soon after identifying the problem. This might have accelerated
GOU's action in resolving the matter.



-12-
J. Implementation of Sector Reforms
36.   Although sector reform was not specifically stated as an objective of this project, it was
implicit in the main objective "to provide a sound basis for future development of the sector".
IDA supervision missions started to discuss the impending sector reform and liberalization of the
telecommunications sector since 1990. It was emphasized at that time that a follow-on project
would be conditional on GOU's willingness to reform the sector. Policy dialogue with the GOU
started in late 1990 but was interrupted by the Board-Management conflicts which fully occupied
supervision missions in 1991 and 1992. The Commission of Inquiry which went on between
October 1992 and March 1993 exposed management weakness at UPTC and this partly
contributed to the GOU's decision, in May 1993, to privatize the telecommunications part of the
UPTC. IDA has assisted the GOU to formulate an appropriate policy and strategy for
restructuring the sector and privatizing the teleconmmunications part. The policy included, inter
alia, separation of UPTC into three entities for posts, telecommunications, and regulatory affairs,
full liberalization of all value added services, privatization of the telecommunications entity; and
licensing of a second national operator to compete with the privatized telecommunications entity.
IDA is now working with the GOU to implement this policy. IDA is exiting financing
investments in the telecommunications sector in Uganda but sustainability of the investments
already financed by IDA is assured because these will be managed by the private sector.
Sustainability would not have been that certain if the GOU had not decided to privatize the
telecommunications entity.
37.  IDA is assisting the GOU in the sector reform process through the ongoing Enterprise
Development Project (EDP). A number of short term consultancies are being funded under this
arrangement. However, the longer term requirements such as building policy and regulatory
capacity in GOU and commercialization of the postal entity, does not have funding. There might
be a need for IDA to finance these important activities to ensure that the telecommunications
liberalization process is successful and that the postal sector, which was dependent on the
telecommunications sector for its development, would be able to stand on its own feet as soon as
possible.
WNWOA YANIMCOFFIER\UOANDA.DOC12/1 7/96]



ANNEX A
Page I of 16
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ANNEX A
Statistical Tables
Pagc No.
List of Tables ---                                                            1
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments----------                                    2
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits--                                       3
Table 3:   Project Timetable   -------------------                     -      4
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual-   -         5
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation---                        6
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Future Project Operation---                      7
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project------------                             9
Table 8A: Project Costs----                                                  10
Table 8B: Project Financing   ----- -                                        10
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits                                        11
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants --          ------                      12
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements -             -    14
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs -     ------------                   14
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions --- ----------              -            15
M:AWORDWIN\Kayani\Scofficr:jp\ANX-A-PI.DOC(2\13/951



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of obiectives         ski          Paiaigib                  Not applicable
eI      I)               ('1)             I
Macroeconomic policies              O           0            0
Sector policies                     O           d            O                O
Financial objectives                0           Ea0                           0
Institutional developments          0           0                             0f  O
Physical objectives                 0           I            0                0
Poverty reduction                   o           0            0                  '
Gender concerns
Other social objectives             0           0            0
Environmental objectives            0           0            0                G
Public sector management            n           o            o                rA
Private sector development          0           O            O
Other(specify)                      0           0            0
B.  Proect sUnainabilit               Likl              IIn1ike              Unncertain
(4)               (4)                      )
0                      0i
C.   ank _rforancfatory                                Satisfactory           Deficient
(4)               (4)                   (4)
Identification                      o                                         C]
Preparation assistance              0                                         0
Appraisal                                                                     0
Supervision                                                                   0
D.  Borwr performanre                  irt            Sifatn                  ficnL
(4)                (4)                   (4)
Preparation                       a                   t1                    0
Implementation                    0                   0                     Er
Covenant compliance               0                    0                    Ml'
Operation (if applicable)         0                   Ed                    0
E. Asessmentof o m                    alatisfactor                              eficie
(M)              (2)                     (4)
M EWORflWIN\KAYANPcfIujp>}14X.A.p2 DOC(1123951  0         u'                      0



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of   LC amount
Loan/Credit Title          Purpose       Approval  ($ millions)          Status
Preceding Operations
1. Loan 914-EA la           To extend            1973       32.5     The Ugandan portion of the
Third Telecommunications  telecommunication                        project was completed in
Project to EAPTC         services                                  1977.
2. Credit 1367-UG           To restore service   1983       22.0      Completed in December
First Telecommunications   in major centers                        1987.
following
destruction by civil
war and to improve
UPTC's
organization and
operations
Following Operation
1. Credit 2362-UG           To replace and      1992       11.5 12
Northern Uganda          expand facilities                        Conditions of disbursements
Reconstruction Project   destroyed during                         were satisfied in May 1995.
(NURP)                   the civil strife.                         The GOU has decided to
replace IDA financing of
part of the telecom
component with Belgian
bilateral assistance. The
unutilized funds have been
reallocated to other project
components
la Prior to 1977 Telecommunications services in the East African Community (EAC including
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) were managed by the East Africa Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC). Loan 914-EA was the third loan extended to
EAPTC to extend services and improve operation of the corporation, with components in
each country. The two previous loans to help finance expansion of telecommunications
services with the EAC, Loan 483-EA (US$13.0 million in 1967) and Loan 675-EA (US$10.4
million in 1970), were completed in 1974 and 1975 respectively. The EAC broke up in
January 1977. Telecommunications services in Uganda were then entrusted to a caretaker
Government Department and to UPTC when it was created in 1984.
Lb Telecommunications component only, or about 16% of the total credit amount of $71.2
million.



ANNX A
Page 4 of 16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle      Date Planned       Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification La                                5 & 7/84
Preparation Lb                                    I & 7/85
Appraisal: initial La                            9/85, 5&11/86, 7&11/87, 2/88
full Id                                5/88
Negotiations                                      12/15-19/88
Policy statement (GOU/UPTC)                       12/88
Board presentation                               03/14/89
Signing                                           12/20/89
Effectiveness Le                 03/20/90        06/05/90
Project completion               06/30/93         12/31/95
Credit closing Lf                12/31/93         1)12/31/94; 2) 12/31/95
La The Second Telecoms Rehabilitation project was identified during supervision of the First
Project under Credit 1367-UG, as a further phase of UPTC's ongoing longer term
rehabilitation program (for 1985-90) and institutional development.
Lb UPTC's second phase rehabilitation and institutional improvement programs were first
proposed with assistance from consultants under the first project, and from ITU.
LQ An initial appraisal was made in September 1985 but, due to political instability (coup in 1985)
and critical security situation, project preparation was suspended. Project status was assessed
and appraisal was updated twice each year in 1986 and 87. A PPF for detailed planning was
agreed in May 1987 to enable early start-up of the procurement process and a pre-appraisal of
the updated project was made in February 1988.
Id Following appraisal, a second tranche of the PPF was agreed to complete progress in project
planning and procurement.
La Two extensions of the date of effectiveness were required due to delays in: (i) ratifying and
obtaining legal opinion on all documents; (ii) executing a subsidiary on-lending agreement
between the Borrower and UPTC; (iii) awarding the major turn-key contract for the large
outside plant component of the project (60% of its cost); and (iv) submitting to the Association
an institutional development plan for UPTC.
Lf Two extensions, by one year each, were required to enable completion and related
disbursements of ongoing large physical items and twinning/training arrangements.



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
L ________________    FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate   2.0   14.0  26.0  40.0  48.0   52.3   52.3    52.3
Actual               0.0    1.3   16.1  27.4  39.5   45.2    48.2    51.1
Actual as % of estiinate  0%    9%    62%   69%   82%    86%   92.2%    97.7%
Date of final                                                           March
disbursement                                                             '96



ANNEXA
Page 6 of 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Actual        Estimated       Actual
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR      Performance      Appraisal     Performanc
at Beginning      Target      Decemeber
June 30, 1989    June 30,       31, 1995
1993/a
(a) Operational:
1. Additional Telephone lines connected                     18,700         20,000 /k
2. Telex lines connected                                       50             8 L
3. Telecommunications staff per 1,000         58              48             48
DELs
4. Maintenance targets (speed of fault-
clearance)
- of faults cleared within 24 hours        20              60            49
- % of faults cleared within 24 to 72
hours                                      20              25           36.0
- % of faults cleared after 72 hours       60               15           17.3
5. Average call completion rates
- Local calls %                            30              60            42
(b) Financial
6. Weeks of billing delay at year end:
- Telephone                                 6               2              8
- Telex                                     6               2              8
7. Rate of return on net revalued assets     12.8%           12.9%          -
8. Receivables outstanding as % of annual
revenues                                  114%           28%             90%
9. Annual investment ($ million)              11.2           25.0            5.0/_
La Last SAR estimated targets. The whole Project/Development Program implementation was delayed
by about three years.
Lb A much higher rate of connections was realized in FY94 and FY95 due to the availability from the
project of new outside plant networks in three main cities, which enabled a thorough
reconnection/redistribution of the existing and new connected lines. Reconnection/redistribution of
local line networks in 1993/94 enabled to clear out large numbers of "unregistered" subscribers
which are being replaced by properly registered users. Total new connections at project
completion (12/95) are estimated to be about 90% of SAR estimates. Full operation of all facilities
from the project is expected by the end of 1997.
L/  Declining use of telex due to increased use of fax.
Ld The rate of return is meaningless without a proper evaluation of assets, a task which has yet to be
done.
/c  Only very urgent investments were being encouraged because of the impending privatization
M :WINWORDKAYANI.Swfflr:ip\ANX-A-P6.DOC12\1 4/91



Annex A
Page 7 of 16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operation La
Key operating indicators            1995    1996 1 1997  |  1998         1999   |  2000  |  2001
Actual       <            OP/ICR Estimated Targets/b ----------->
A. Operational (LDc. 3L
Al. SARJndicalors:
1. Telephone lines connected during year       6,939   2,000   3,000       1,500     4,500     5,000
2.  Telex lines connected                          8        0       0         60        60         60
3.  Telecommunications staff per 1,000 DELs       48       48      45         65        55        48         45
4. Maintenance targets (speed of fault-clearance)
- % of faults cleared within 24 hours       46.7       S0      58        60         60        65         65
- % of faults cleared within 24 to 72 hours   36       35      27        25         25        25         25
- % of faults cleared after 72 hours        17.3       15      15         15        15        10         10
5. Average call completion rates
Local calls %                              49.8      50       S0        55         60        65         70
A2. Addotr
6.  Exchange capacity                         59,850  59,850  59,850    62,000    62,000    65,000        65,000
7.  Total direct exchange lines connected     42,000  44,000  47,000   48,000/_  48,000/s  48,000&   48,000 L
8.  Telephone density (per/100 population)      0.18    0.21      0.21      0.22      0.24       0.25    0.25
L/ Data obtained from UPTC's Operational Plan (OP).
&L Figures are rounded up
ls Full operation of tbe rehabilitated and new lines from the project.
M:\WORDWINM AYANI5caf:hplMd-A-.P7.DOqlI/2JSj



AN4NEX A
Page 8 of 16
Table6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operation (continued) La
Key operating indicators            1995        1996   J   1997   |   1998       1999         2000      2001
Actual               <- ------------ OP/ICR Estimated Targets l---------------
B. Financial (June 30/ea. yr.)
Bl. SARJIioaA:
1. Weeks of billing delay at year end:
- Telephone                                8           6          4          4          3           2           2
- Telex                                    8           6          4          4          3           2           2
2.  Rate of return on net revalued assets     L
3. Receivables outstanding are % of annual
revenues                                 90%         80%        60%        48%        28%         28%         28%
4.  Annual investment (S million)             11.0       12.0       16.0       25.0        17.0       22.0        12.0
B.  AddiLInt  UdicaM:
5.  Operational revenue                      39.2        24.5       26.5       28.9        32.9       38.5        42.0
6.  Operational expenditures                 34.0        20.6       21.5       22.4        23.6       24.8        25.6
La Data obtained from UPTC's Operational Plan (OP). ICR estimate for project/program related data not included in UPTC's OP.
& Figures are rounded up.
Lj The rate of return (RA) from current accounts is meaningless without proper revaluation of assets having not been done yet. The 1998 target RR is the
appraisal target.
M:IWORDWINCKAYANI\Swfr5r:jp\ANX.A-PS.DOCp/Jl44MI



ANNEX A
Page 9 of 16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study - Purpose as defined at appraisal     Status             Impact of study
1. Engineering of Local Cable            Completed.        Achievement of least
Networks: To study/prepare plans/                       cost and adequate
basic design on engineering of each                     technical solutions for
network, procurement process,                           cable networks and
implementation supervision and                          outside plant under
systems acceptance/commissioning.                       adequate standards and
construction/operation
methodology. Training
of UPTC engineering
teams and staff.
2. Staffing needs and training program:  Completed with delays,   Studies were made but
To assess staffing situation and  by end 1993 compared   implementation was
needs, determine staffing structure   to expected 1991.  impeded by managerial
and prepare detailed             Executed under a       conflicts and changes.
training programs.              twinning arrangement    Training program was
implemented.
3. Institutional development program:   Completed with delay    Implementation and
To study and prepare action plan                        imnpact delayed (see
consistent with UPTC Act (1984)                         study 2 above).
and Policy Statement (1988).
4. Tarifs: To evaluate the adequacy of Completed end 1993  In depth tariffs
tariffs and recommend appropriate   (compared to planned    restructuring and
structure and changes.            1990)                  changes were
implemented in May
1994 and August 1995
M:'WOftDWCNKAYANImfiw jp\ANX-A-P9.DOC[1(23l951



ANNEX A
Page 10 of 16
Table 8A: Project Costs
_______________________ Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual_(US$M)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Item               costs    costs    Total    costs    costs       Total
1. Local network (turnkey
contract)                   4.2      32.4     35.6       1.2      31.5     32.7
2. Telecommunications
equipment, spares, tools,
vehicles and recurrent
purchases                   1.8      11.3     13.1       1.8      10.7      12.5
3. Consultants, training and
PPF refinancing            0 .5                9J1      O 1       8         29Q
(engineering)
Total                   6.5      52.3     58.8       3.1      51.1      54.2
Table 81B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
costs    costs    Total    costs    costs       Total
IDA                                     52.3     52.3                51.1      51.1
Domestic contribution          6.5                6.5       3.1                3.1
Other external sources
Total                   6.5      52.3     58.8       3.1      51.1      54.2
M:\WINWORDIKAYANl\Scoffier:jp\ANX-A-IO.0DOC[2114/951



ANNEX A
Page 11 of 16
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into the calculation of a
re-estimated economic rate of return in achieving project objectives. These calculations
understate the overall benefits to be derived from the investment program in as much as they
did not take into account consumer surplus and external benefits to non users of the
telecommunications services provided by UPTC.
A. SAR Estimated Financial and Economic Rate of Return
The internal financial rate of return of the program was estimated to be 10.6% and the
projected economic rate of return is 14.3%.
B. Re-estimated Internal Financial and Economic Rate of Return
Incremental Costs and Benefits of the Program
(in US$ million)
C= ________             Financial Return                             Economic Retur  d
Incremental      Incremental                    Incremental operating
Program       operating      operating costs                    costs (ex-taxes)
FY       costs La     revenues lb        and taxes      Net benefits                                Net Benefits (ex-taxes)
1990        (8.0)            -                               (8.0)                                            (8.0)
1991        (7.3)           1.30             (0.4)           (6.4)              (0.3)                         (6.3)
1992        (8.5)           3.1             (0.6)            (6.0)              (0.5)                         (5.9)
1993       (12.3)           6.7             (1.5)            (7.1)              (1.4)                         (7.0)
1994        (11.7)          9.4             (6.1)            (8.4)              (5.8)                         (8.1)
1995        (5.4)           16.5            (9.2)            1.90               (6.8)                          4.3
1996        (1.0)           18.3            (9.6)             7.7               (7.1)                          10.2
1997        (-0-)          20.0             (9.6)            10.4               (7.1)                          12.9
1998                       20.3              (9.6)           10.7               (7.1)                          13.2
1999                       20.4             (9.6)            10.8               (7.1)                          13.3
2000                        21.6             (7.5)            14.1              (5.6)                          16.0
2001                        21.6             (7.5)            14.1              (5.6)                          16.0
2002                        20.9             (6.6)            14.3              (5.0)                          15.9
2003                        20.9             (6.6)            14.3              (5.0)                          15.9
2004                        20.9             (6.6)            14.3              (5.0)                          15.9
2005          -             20.9             (6.6)            14.3              (5.0)                          15.9
2006          -             20.1             (5.6)            14.6              (4.5)                          15.6
2007           -            20.1             (5.6)            14.6              (4.5)                          15.6
2008          -             20.1             (5.6)            14.6              (4.5)                          15.6
2009          -             20.1             (5.6)            14.6              (4.5)                          15.6
Interl Financial Rate of Returm              14.9                           Economic Rate of Return    18 1 
/a   Custom duties, when applicable, have been excluded from investment program costs.
/b  Incremental revenues assigned to the program are based on the service usage by additional subscribers and traffic/income
increase brought about by investrnent made during the period 1990 to 1995 and carried out until 2009. Moderate reductions
of related revenues were assumed past the year 2000 to take account of the forecast world-wide decrease in
telecommunications tariffs when facilities from the program would reach full operation.
/c Incremental operating costs include cost of personnel, material, services and taxes necessary for the operation and increase in
revenues from the program. They exclude depreciation and interest.
/d   Corporate and other applicable taxes have been excluded to determine benefits used in the calculation of the Economic Rate of
Return.
M:\WORDWI NKAYANSwoffrier:jpANX-A- 12.DOCI I/26i951



ANNEX A
Page 12 of 16
tlGANDA SECOND TELECOMIMIUNICATIONS PROJECT - CREDIT 1991-llG
Table 10: STATtUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section       Covenant   Status       Original       Revised          Description ot Covenant              Comments
Type                   Fulfillment    Fulfillment Datc
Date
A. Project -   4.01 (a)    I          C                                           UPTC shall maintain proper records   Complied
General                                                                           and accounts
4.01(b)(ii)    I         CD                                          Fumish to the Association Audited    There were delas
financial statements not later than six    every yew of the
months after the end of FY           project
4.02 (b)     4           C                                           Consult with the Association on any  Complied
proposals tfr investments estimated to
cost more than ten percent of the of the
amount established in the program for
any one year
4.03 (a)     2                      June 30.                         UPTC to earn an annual rate of return    Lack of ams
1990                            on its fixed assets in operation of not    revalufLimo disms
less than 12% starting trom the tiscal    the data
year ending on June 30, 1990
4.03 (b)     2           C                                           Before January 1. in each of its fiscal    Tariffs increudbe
years, UPTC to review whether it    local tiffs still
would meet the requirements set in   inadequa
4.03 (a)
4.03(c)      2           C                                           If any such review shows that UPTC   Complied
would not meet the requirements set
forth in para 4.03 (a), UPTC shall take
all necessary measures /including
adjustment of tariffs) in order to meet
such requirements
4.04         3           C                                           UPTC to take all mcasures to ensure  Complied
that funds from intemal sources are
adequate to cover the estimated local
currency requirements for its
investment program
4.05 (a)     2           C          January 1.                       UPTC shall scmi-annuaily beginning   Complied
1990                            January 1. 1990. and thereafter on July
1, and January I, rcview the adcquacy
of tariffs to meet the requirements set
forth in 4.03 and 4.04 above and
fumish copies of such review to IDA
4.05 (b)     2           C                                           UJPTC shall take all necessary actions    Complied
to ensure that. within three months of
the review date such adjustments in
tariff levels shall be made, based on the
findings of the review.
4.05 (c)     2           NC                                          UJPTC shall adopt a tormula.         Study mat c11
satisfactory to the Association to   due to cnficl
enable it to make automatic interim  between
adjustments to its tariff levels to  m     _tqm 
promptly cover sudden increases in its    3oud of DLuaim
operating costs
4.06         2           C           December                        UPTC shall. by December 31, 1990.    ComniWdoh
31, 1990                        undertake a study, to evaluate the   dela
adequacy of tariffs and recommend any
appropriate changes



Annex A
Paze 13 of 16
B. Schcdulc   1           5           CD         December                        UPTC shall. by December31, 1990,    Complied after
2 -Project                                       31, 1990                        carry out an assessment of its stafling    delays
Implementa                                                                       needs and refrain from hiring staff to
tion                                                                             fill middle and low-level vacancies
until such assessment is completed
2            5          C                                           UPTC shall promptly prepare and     Complied
furnish to IDA an institutional
development program, including an
action plan for its implementation
which shall be consistent with the
UPTC Act and the policy statement
3            5          CD          December                        UPTC to prepare a detailed training  Complied after
31. 1990                       program by December31, 1990          delays
4            5          CD, CP    Scptember                         UPTC shall, by September 30, 1990,    Delayed and oniv
30, 1990                       complete a twinning arrangement with   partially
a suitable telecommunications agency   implemented due b
conflicts in the
UPTC between
management and
Board
5.  5      CP         June 30.                        UPTC shall fill the positions ot     The manaaemea
1990                           Finance Director. Chief Accountant,    accountant was am
financial Accountant. Management    recruited due to
Accountant. and Systems and/Data    management
Processing Manager by June 30. 1990    problems
6(a)         5          C                                           UPTC shall engage a reputable       Complied
international accounting firm
7.           2           NC         June 30.                        UPTC shall ensure that. by June 30,    Not Complied
1990                           1990 the level of accounts receivable is
reduced to no more than the equivalent
of ninety _90) days of sale revenue
DIvelopme
nt Credit    3.04 (a)     2           NC         June 30.                        The Borrower to take all measures to  Arrangements beib
1990                           ensure that its ministries and parastatal   made to write-oflf
bodies shall pay. in iull. all arrears tbr   arrears against low
tclecommunications scrviccs by June    term debt
30. 1990
3.04 (b)     2           NC                                         Theeat'er, all charges incurred by its   Prmblems of
ministries and parastatal bodies to be    inaccurate billing
paid to UPTC within (30) days of the    has made it diffkal
billing date                        for UPTC to collec:
outstanding debt



ANNEX A
Page 14 of 16
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
(OD or OP/BP) was observed under the project. Provisional unsatisfactory practices, in
particular in the procurement process, were adequately adjusted or corrected during
supervision.
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs La
Stage of project cycle        Planned                  Actual
Weeks                   Weeks
Through appraisal               50                      60
Appraisal-Board                 20                      35
Board-effectiveness             10                       15
Supervision                     70                      80
Completion                      15                      20
Total                          165                      210
M:\WORDWINMKAYANI'&OieC:jp\ANX-A-IS.DOC[1I23/951



ANNEXA
Page 15 of 16
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating Lb
Number    Days           Specialized
Stage of project cycle               Month/        of        in           staff skills
Year      Persons     field       represented La       Implemen-      Develop-                  Types of problems
tation/        ment
.__________________________________   __________________ _   overall    status  im pact
Through appraial
- Prepuation/pre-appraisal I         1/85Lr        3          6      Eng, Fin A, Econ
- Appraisal I                       9/85&          3          12     Eng, Fin A. Econ             -
- Appraisal update I                5186/s         2          5      Eng, Fin A                   -
- Appraisal update 2                11/86/s        2          5      Eng, Fin A                   -
- Update 3 (revision of project)    7/87/i         4          6      Eng, Fin A, Econ,                                  - civil war and political unrest delayed
Manl                        -                       implementation of first project and
- Preparation, pre-appraisal II     2/88           2          10     Eng, Fin A                                          resulted in changes/revision of the
proposed second project.
Appraisal through Board Approval
- Final Appraisal II
- Negotiations                      5/88           3          12     Eng, Fin A, Econ
- Board approval                    12/88          -          -
3/89                     -
- Review of effectiveness status     3/90          2          3      Econ, Leg
- Credit effective                  6/90                             -                            -
Supervision/Completion
Supervision 1                        8/90          2          8      Eng, Fin A                   2                     - Project management to strengthen
organization and financial management of
UPTC to improve.
Supervision 2                        4/9lLd        2          8      2 x Eng                      2                     - Slow procurement procedure and weak
financial management.
Supervision 3                       9191/L         3          10     Eng, Fin A, Mngt             2                     - Same as in previous visits . Sector
reform/restructuring is recommended.
Supervision 4                       9/92           2          10     Eng, Fin A                   2                     - Conflicts between Board and
management developed at UPTC
adversely affecting project
implementation.
M: %W0DWIN\iXAYANI\SCOFFIERI:,\ANX.A.16.DOCi2\I3\951



ANNEX A
Page 16 of 16
Iable 13: Bank Resources: Missions (cont)
Performance Rating Lb
Number    Days          Specialized
Stage of project cycle            Month/        of        in          staff skills
Year     Persons    field       represented Lt      Implemen-    Develop-                 Types of problems
tation/       ment
overall status    impact
Supervision S                     12/92         3         4      Eng, Fin A, Mngt           3                    - Implementation performance continues to
deteriorate
Supervision 6                     7/93          2         10     Eng, Fin A                 2                    - Board/management problems are being
investigated. Implementation improves closing
date to be extended to enable completion of
ongoing items.
Supervision 7/Completion          10/94 Lf      3         10     Eng, Fin A, Proct          S Lg        S /g     Board and management are being
restructured/reorganized - Government has
Supervision 8/Completion          10/95/h       1          7     Eng.                       2                    decided separating posts from
telecommunications, organizing them in
independent entities, and privatizing them.
Project expected to be satisfactorily completed
by end 1995.
la Abbreviations: - Eng. Engineer; FinA, Financial Analyst; - Econ, Economist; - MmgtfProct, Management/Procurement Specialist; Leg. - Lawyer.
&   Keys to: - overall performance rating (before FY94) = I problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems - implementation/development impact status (from FY94 on)
HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly unsatisfactory.
l; These were combined missions for supervision/completion of the first project (credit 1367-UG) and preparation/revision of the proposed second project.
Ld  Combined mission for supervision of the second project (credit 1991-UG) and identification/preparation of a large telecommunications component for the proposed
Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project (NURP).
L,  Combined mission for project supervision, appraisal of NURP's telecoins component and identification ot a possible third project to support the rehabilitation and
sector/management reforms.
Lf ICR mission. Project was expected to close on December 31, 1994.
Lg  New project performance rating is introduced (revised Form 590, see Lb above).
/h ICR mission to revise draft ICR after extension of closing date to December 31, 1995.
i \WINWORD\AYANPSco@fim jp\ANX-A- 17 DOCtI/23/951



Appendix I
Page 1 of 10
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT -CREDIT 1991-UG
FINAL SUPERVISION AND ICR PREPARATION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
To: Managing Director, UPTC
1.    A World Bank Telecommunications Mission consisting of Messrs. Rogati Kayani, Senior
Telecommunications Engineer, and Kashmira Daruwalla, Procurement Analyst, visited Uganda
between October 2-24, 1994 to: (a) participate in the mid-term review of Northern Uganda
Reconstruction project; and (b) to conduct the final supervision and collection of data for the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Second Telecommunications Project. Mr. Gaiv Tata
Financial Analyst also participated in the ICR mission.
2.    The mission met with the Minister of Works, Transport and Communications and senior
officials of the Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC). The mission wishes to
thank the Government and UPTC for courtesies and cooperation extended to it throughout its stay in
Uganda. The mission would also like to thank UPTC for the comprehensive preparation it had made
for the mission. A separate Aide Memoire has been issued for item l(a) above. A summary of the
mission's findings and recommendations for the final supervision and ICR, which are subject to
approval by IDA management, are presented below.
New ICR Procedures
3.    The mission explained the new procedures for preparing the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) and the expected contents of the ICR. The mission emphasized that the main purpose
of the mission was to discuss the achievements and failures of the project and to identify reasons for
the failures. The objective of this exercise is to: provide feedback from implementation experience
and to improve country lending strategies and the design of any future operations; (b) help ensure
greater development and sustainability of projects during the operational phase; (c) reinforce self
evaluation, including development impact assessment by the Bank and borrower; (d) meet
requirements for accountability and transparency in Bank activities; and (e) maintain a record of the
implementation experience of Bank financed operations to facilitate assessment of development
impact. The timetable for preparing the ICR by IDA and UPTC was agreed. UPTC would submit
the draft ICR to IDA by January 31, 1995, and IDA would submit its evaluation to UPTC for
comments by February 3, 1995.
4.    The mission also explained and discussed the responsibilities of the Borrower including: (a)
preparing its own final evaluation report of the project; (b) adopting a plan for the operational phase
of the project, and defining, together with the mission, the performance indicators to be used to
monitor operations and development impact; and (c) assisting the Bank in ICR preparation. The
UPTC and the mission were satisfied that the discussions were sufficient for IDA and UPTC to
prepare the ICR. However, it was the opinion of the UPTC and the Minister of Works Transport and



2                                Appendix I
Page 2 of 10
Communications that the closing date for the project needs to be extended for another twelve months
to ensure that the core of the institutional building activities are completed. The Government has
prepared a letter of appeal seeking an extension of closing date to December 31, 1995. The following
paragraphs will summarize the present status of implementation of the project and discussions on the
contents of the ICR.
Summary of Overall Implementation
5.    The Credit became effective on June 5, 1990 and commitments now stand at SDR34.8
million, 91% of the total credit of SDR38.3. Total disbursements are now SDR33.9 million (89% of
total credit). The original closing date for the credit was December 31, 1993 but extension was
granted to December 31, 1994. The Government requested for another extension but IDA could not
grant it because the reasons advanced for another extension were not considered adequate. The
Government has prepared an appeal and this is currently under consideration by IDA. Since only a
few components of the project have yet to be completed, it was agreed preparation of ICR continues
regardless of whether an extension of closing date is granted or not. The objectives, achievements
and failures as discussed and agreed with UPTC are presented in the following paragraphs.
Proiect Obiectives
6.    The project's main objective as set out during appraisal was to support the 1988/89 - 1992/93
telecommunications investment program including: (a) rehabilitating telecommunications facilities
damaged during the internal disturbances and run down due to lack of maintenance; and (b) rebuilding
institutional capability within the sector. An important institutional strengthening component was to
develop UPTC to operate effectively and sustain itself as a commercially viable utility including:
designing and implementing corporate planning and a management information system; setting up
sound and operating and accounting procedures and financial control and management practices;
introducing guidelines for efficient maintenance and service standards; and implementing
comprehensive human resource development and training programs.
7.    These objectives were to be satisfied through the implementation of a number of physical and
institutional activities as follows. (a) The rehabilitation of the local cable networks and subscriber
facilities in Kampala, Entebbe, and Jinja. Due to its importance, the award of contract for this
component (about 60% of the total credit) was made one of the conditions of effectiveness of the
project; (b) equipment vehicles, spare parts and materials for telecommunications maintenance and
operations; and (c) technical assistance, training and fellowships to further strengthen UPTC's
management, planning and operational capabilities. Two conditions of effectiveness were set to
ensure that sufficient up-front actions were taken to implement the institutional development aspect of
the project: (i) submission of a comprehensive institutional development program satisfactory to IDA;
and (ii) appointment of financial consultants, and recruitment of three key financial personnel; a
financial director, chief accountant and financial and expenditure accountant.
Achievement of Objectives
8.    It was agreed that the physical objectives of the project were substantially satisfied but the
institutional aspects left much to be desired. It is in the context of this that the Government is seeking
a further extension of the closing date.



3                                Appendix 1
Page 3 of 10
Physical Achievements
9.    The following sub-projects were successfully completed: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of
the external cable networks at Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe - this involved the complete replacement of
old fault-prone paper insulated copper cable by modem jelly filled copper cable and optical fiber
cables; (b) purchase of essential materials, transport facilities, and spare parts for installation of new
subscribers and maintenance of the nd maintenance of the network including: telephones, teleprinters,
fax machines, vehicles, generators, cables and postal items (date stamps, mail bags, weighing scale,
and safes).
Institutional Achievements
10.   The Institutional Development Program was to be focused on restoring discipline,
accountability and efficiency of UPTC and building capacity through training and twinning. A number
of actions were taken to satisfy the conditions of effectiveness including: (a) revision and
implementation of new organization structure including the creation of a new department responsible
for Corporate Planning and MIS; (b) three qualified accountants were recruited to fill the posts of
Director Finance, Chief accountant and Principal Accountant Finance and Revenue; (c) salaries and
benefits have been more than doubled and the Corporation is in the process of introducing a
performance related pay structure; (d) supplies management has been strengthened through the
assistance of British Telecoms; and (e) formulation of a Human Resource Management Strategy
including Manpower Planning, Training and development and Performance Appraisal.
11.   Training: The short term objective of the training program was to meet present needs for the
existing network and the newly installed network and the long term objective is oriented to meet
future technological advancement in the sector. In order to fulfil these objectives studies were carried
by TELECOM EIREANN to: (a) determine the staff needs - the study was completed in March 1994
and implementation of its recommendations is in progress; and (b) training needs identification and
training program design - the study was completed in December 1992. The recommendations could
not be implemented because of conflicts between the Board of Directors and management of UPTC
(para 20). Under this program training was to have been undertaken overseas and locally under a
fellowship scheme. The overseas training entailed attending specialized courses which could not be
conducted by local institutions because of either lack of expertise or necessary equipment. Local
training was to be conducted by invited lecturers from outside Uganda where a large number of staff
have to be trained on the same subject and equipment is available for such training. This was
particularly true for non-technical courses. A number of courses have been undertaken since the new
Board was appointed in November 1993.
12.   Finance and Audit: Consultants (Price Waterhouse) to undertake a study of the financial
and audit systems in UPTC were appointed at the beginning of the project. The report by Price
Waterhouse extensively covered the areas of finance and accounts, internal audit and corporate
planning, and Management Information Systems. The report provided a comprehensive study of the
organization's current situation, procedures and controls. As required by the TORs, a comprehensive
set of recomnendations and procedures were also presented in the report. UPTC is currently
implementing some of the recommendations but given the current situation within UPTC especially
the lack of manpower, implementation will be a lengthy and complex process unless consultants are
employed to assist in the implementation. As regards audits, the report by Price Waterhouse did a



4                                Appendix I
Page 4 of 10
very good evaluation of needs but did not produce documentation for the recommended systems and
internal audit programs as required by the TORs. UPTC may have to prepare the documentation and
programs themselves. It is recommended that UPTC hires consultants for assistance. The
implementation of the full report is one of the major outstanding items in this project. According to
the report, for a successful implementation of recommended procedures and controls, all aspects of
the accounts and finance need to be computerized therefore requiring computer training for all finance
and accounts personnel. On hind site implementation of the recommendations should have been part
of the contract. The implementation of these systems is considered very important. This will form
part of UPTC's operational plan.
13.   Financial Performance: The financial performance of UPTC has been improving year after
year throughout the project. This was mainly due to massive increases in tariffs at the beginning of
the project. UPTC realized an operating profit in FYs 89, 90 and 91 but foreign exchange losses
turned these surpluses to operating losses. In FYs 92 and 93 the UPTC made modest profits after
taking into account foreign exchange losses. In accordance with UPTC's 1992/93 audited accounts,
UPTC's operating financial performance for the year ended June 30, 1993 improved over the
previous two fiscal years: operating profits for 1992/93 amounted to UShs 7.4 billion compared to
UShs 16.2 billion in 1991/92 and Ushs 13.2 billion in 1990/91. The operating profits are adjusted
downwards in the audited statements to take into account the fact that UPTC bears the foreign
exchange losses on its foreign currency denominated debt (primarily from IDA). After taking into
account these foreign exchange losses, the audited statements show that profits amounted to UShs 5.6
billion in 1992/93 compared to UShs 0.9 billion in 1991/92. It is too early to estimate with
reasonable accuracy the performance for the year ended June 30, 1994. Initial estimates indicate that
the operational performance has remained strong and, excluding Government billings, collection
performance has stabilized. However, there remains substantial scope for improving UPTC's
financial status. There is a need for UPTC to improve efficiency, control expenditure and enhance
revenue from the expanded and improved network due the project. The benefits of the project will be
felt during FY95. Specific recommendations were made in the last mission and these are discussed in
paras 14 - 16. The draft accounts for FY94 will not be ready until November 30. UPTC's
management expect to realize an operating profit especially considering the fact that the Corporation
enjoyed foreign exchange gains. However, the total revenue is likely to be lower and expenditure
higher than forecasted in the budget because of a number of reasons. The revenue is expected to be
lower because of following reasons:
(a)  Goverrnent's failure to pay for services rendered;
(b)  Over-estimation of revenues to be accrued from the completed external cable networks
for Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe. The completion was delayed by 16 months and the
connection rate has not been as high as expected due to UPTC's lack of capacity and
lack of exchange of capacity - the exchanges at Jinja and Entebbe are full;
(c)  internal control weaknesses in revenue billing and collection: and
(d)  inadequate marketing for available services. Many would be customers are not coming
forward to apply for service because they think that the service is either not available or
too expensive. The UPTC has proposed, and the mission agrees that a market
survey/research should be carried out in order for the corporation to keep abreast with



5                                Appendix 1
Page 5 of 10
customer needs.
Expenditures are expected to be higher because of:
(a)           UPTC is no longer exempted from import tax, about UShs 1.3 billion was
paid for customs and Excise in FY94; and
(b)          payroll went up by about 100% due to salary increases. Payroll will likely
make up more than 45% of total revenue which is high. Payroll as a
percentage of total revenues should normally be less than 30%.
14.   Billing: Delays in producing bills and inaccurate bills has been a problem throughout the
project. The situation had improved appreciably during the last mission but this seems to have
deteriorated. The July bills should have been issued by August 15, but these were not issued until
September 30. The June telex bills were issued at the end August 31. The July telex bills have not
been issued yet because of lack of printing capacity. The long term solution for this problem is to
install a new computer billing system. This item is part of the project but due to the impending
closing date, there is insufficient time left to procure the system. The mission was pleased that there
has been a number of steps taken to improve billing performance. UPTC has recently introduced a
weekly billing system for international services for high calling customers in Kampala such as hotels,
oil companies, banks etc.. These customers make about 30% of the total billing volume. The
outcome of this exercise has been very rewarding. Experience has shown that these customers have
been paying their bills within one week of receiving their bills. An improvement in the accuracy of
billing has also been realized due to the introduction of automatic receptors at the bill paying points in
Kampala. Recently a serious problem has been identified in some of the international bills. There
seems to be a software problem in the international exchange. There appears to be a problem with
data capturing equipment which leads to calls being charged to non-existent seven digit numbers. The
mission was informed that in May the problem was reported to the exchange manufacturer,
ALCATEL France, but so far nothing has been done. It is important that UPTC resolves this
problem as soon as possible. It is recommended that UPTC employs an expert to look into this
problem. It was agreed that this expert will be employed by December 31 1994.
15.   Collection: Government indebtness has been a problem throughout the project. This
indebtness grew by 29% during 1993/94. In the last mission the following recommendations were
made. "(a) An aggressive debt collection effort should be initiated to recover outstanding sums from
local non-Government debtors. The in-house collection effort should be strengthened and external
collection agencies should be employed on a commission basis; (b) Ongoing discussions with the
Treasury regarding the settlement of Government's bills should be brought to closure as soon as
possible. One possibility under discussion was to offset the loan servicing amounts (on account of
IDA loans being serviced by Government on behalf of UPTC) against the outstanding receivables
which the Government owes UPTC. This would also help to reduce the debt to debt plus equity ratio
of 0.94 in 1992/93 which is extremely high. (c) The debts with other PTTs should be settled soon; at
the end of June 1993 the net outstanding was UShs 7.2 billion". The mission was pleased that UPTC
has taken actions on all the three recommendations. A committee has been created to prepare tenders
to invite private collectors. Four reputable firms have already registered their interest. One
important requirement for such collectors is to have a Fidelity Insurance Guarantee. A similar



6                                Appendix I
Page 6 of 10
exercise was done inmediately after last year's mission but due to the absence of a Board of
Directors, the recommendations were not implemented. As regards outstanding Government debt, the
mission was pleased that the long awaited agreement to swap outstanding loan repayments by UPTC
with Governmnent telephone debts has been finalized, at least until June 30, 1993. Verified
accumulated Government indebtness to UPTC at June 30, 1993, was UShs 14.5 billion. At that date,
UPTC owed the Government UShs 16.3 billion. With debt swap the UPTC owed the Government
UShs 1.8 billion at June 30, 1993. The Government is ready to implement this swap and the
Attorney General is drafting an agreement to this effect. However, during FY93194, Governments
indebtness to UPTC went up by UShs 4.7 billion and that of UPTC to the Govermnent by UShs 2.9
billion. The net effect at June 30, 1994 was that the Government owed the UPTC UShs 1.2 billion.
The Government is not prepared to settle on this account because the accounts for FY94 have not yet
been audited. UPTC should continue with its efforts to extend the swap as at June 30, 1994.
16.   Tariffs: Throughout the project, the Government and UPTC have been fully aware of the
importance of regular adjustment of tariffs, especially international tariffs, to compensate for inflation
and foreign exchange fluctuations. Tariff review becamne part of the budget process. In pursuit of
this objective, tariffs were increased by 50-500% in July 1988, and again by 50-500% in December
1989. In September 1991 international tariffs were increased to compensate for exchange rate
variations and at the same time these tariffs were pegged to the US$ so that the rates could
automatically vary with the exchange rate of the US$ relative to the Uganda shilling. It is after this
adjustment that a net inflow of traffic into Uganda started because the tariffs in Uganda became too
high. The rationale proposed at that time was that the tariff increase would reverse a declining trend
of incoming to outgoing calls (which stood at 0.77 at that time) and would result in reduction in debts
of some $13 million owed in foreign currencies. The lack of convertibility of the USh to hard
currencies was an important consideration at that time. While the declining trend in traffic has been
completely turned around (it stood at 2.44 in April 1993), this has been achieved largely through
depressing demand. However, given the ability to convert the USh to hard currencies this is no
longer an issue. Therefore the July 1993 IDA mission proposed that UPTC's management should
review its tariff structure and the possibility of reducing international tariffs. The mission
recommended to UPTC that it should study the demand and revenue estimation model that has been
used by Oman over the last three years to reduce international tariffs from levels comparable to those
now existing in Uganda to much lower levels while still increasing overall revenues. The mission
advised UPTC to send two senior staff, one technical and one financial, to undertake a brief study
tour and develop in-depth knowledge of the Oman forecasting model. The visit was undertaken and
as a result, international tariffs have been decreased by about 47% and a general increase in domestic
tariffs was effected. The financial impact of these tariff increases have not been assessed but
international traffic has gone up. Some of the revised tariff levels are presented in Table 1.



7                               Appendix t
Page 7 of 10
Table I - Comparison of Some Tariff Rates
Tariff              April 1994 Levels (US$  May 1994   Percentage Change
equivalent per minute   levels
PTA Countries                   3.00             2.00            -33.3
East African Countries (Tanzania,        3.00             1.00           -66.7
Burundi, Rwanda, Kenya)                                                               l
Africa and rest of the world except     5.00              4.00           -20.0
the countries below.
USA, UK, Canada, Germany,                7.50             4.00           -46.7
India, Sweden, Italy, France,
Switzerland
Connection Charge                       21.25             60.00         + 182.3
Rental                                   .80              1.50           +87.5
Unit Charge                              .05               .05             0
While the new international rates could be considered as reasonable for the time being, pending
analysis of their impact on total revenue, the local tariffs are still low. For instance, the average rates
for Africa are: Connection charge is US$92.3, rental is US$5.00 and Unit charge is US$0.08
equivalent.
17.   Accounts and Audits: The UPTC has consistently been late in finalizing its accounts and
audits due to the lack of qualified manpower and a completely manual accounting. Although the
manpower situation has improved substantially during the project; there were only 6 staff with
accounting qualifications at the beginning of the project compared to 20 now.
The FY93 draft financial statements were submitted to the Auditor General in October 1993. The
UPTC Act as well as the Audit Covenants stipulated in the Project Agreement require that UPTC
accounts are audited within six months of the fiscal year end. Auditing of the FY93 accounts was
completed in June 1994, six months behind schedule. Although the quality of the FY93 accounts
have improved compared to those of FY92, in the opinion of the Auditor General, the quality still
leaves a lot to be desired. The mission was informed that the FY94 draft accounts are about 75 %
done. The mission was informed that the draft accounts are expected to be completed by November
30. Auditing is expected to commence the first week of December and completed by January 31,
1994. With this timetable, the audited accounts are expected to be submitted to IDA by February 15,
1995, one and half months behind schedule. The mission urged the UPTC to ensure that additional
resources are deployed to get the audits completed by December 31, 1994.
18.   OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE: The project has had substantial impact on the rate of
subscriber connection and the quality of service. At the completion in December 1993, of the



8                               Appendix 1
Page 8 of 10
external line plant rehabilitation and expansion of Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe subscriber verification
had to be made before connecting the new network. This was necessary because there was a lot of
"ghost subscribers" in the network. All existing and prospective subscribers were requested to re-
apply/apply for service. At the beginning of the exercise records showed that there were about
32,000 working subscribers but after verification the number dropped to 22,000. Since this
verification a year ago, 10,500 new subscribers have been connected which translates to an annual
growth of about 48%. This high growth was a result of completing the external line plant
component. Unfortunately, the external line capacity provided at Entebbe and Jinja cannot be utilized
because the exchanges are old and completely full. These exchanges were expected to be financed
from a French protocol but this did not materialize. The replacement and expansion of these
exchanges is of highest priority. There has also been drastic reduction in the number of faulty lines.
Before completion of this component, there was an average of 20% of the lines faulty at any time but
this has dropped to an average of 3 % in the last three months. In Jinja, an average of 300 faults
were carried over to the next day but after completion of the cable works only about 6 faults are
carried forward - a real drastic improvement.
Factors Affecting Implementation
19.   The successful implementation of those components that have been completed has been
achieved under very trying conditions. The major problem was the conflicts between the Board of
Directors and Management. Other factors included: procurement; lack of sufficient qualified
technical and financial staff; and lack of computer facilities. It is only because of the Minister of
Works Transport and Communications and UPTC's management resolve to successfully implement
the project that so much has been achieved.
20.   Management Conflicts: For three years (November 1990-November 1993) the project
operated under very difficult conditions. The project was proceeding satisfactorily until November
1990 when a new Board was appointed. The new Board decided to run the corporation on a day to
day basis leading to severe conflicts between management and the Board. These conflicts led to long
delays in processing of procurement documents and unsubstantiated dismissal of key project
implementation personnel. The contract for the rehabilitation of the external line plant for Kampala,
Jinja and Entebbe (60% of the project) was affected most by these conflicts. The contract was
supposed to have been completed 26 months after effectiveness, i.e. October 1992. Implementation
of this contract encountered serious setbacks due to what was found out to be deliberate frustration by
the Board of Directors. The Board was appointed three months after contract effectiveness. Firstly,
it refused to approve the revised drawings after detailed survey by the contractor because the survey
led to an increase of 3 % of the contract price. Although this increase was within the range allowed in
the contract the Board rejected to approve the revised plans. The Board also started to reject payment
applications for work already done by the contractor. These problems led to serious delays. In
September 1992, a Conmmission of Inquiry was set up by the Minister of Works, Transport and
Communications to investigate the problems at UPTC. The Commission's recommendations led to
replacement of most of the Board members in November 1993 and dismissal of some members of
management in March 1994. The conflicts led to more than one year delay in completing the
external line plant contract. The contract was eventually completed in December 1993 and all
associated benefits from the project were equally delayed. In addition, UPTC has to pay a penalty of
about US$420,000 to compensate the contractor (Marubeni) for the delays. Implementation of the
institutional development program (twinning and training) was also delayed to the extent that it



9                                Appendix 1
Page 9 of 10
became too late to implement due to the impending closing date. Most of the program has not been
implemented.
21.   Procurement: Besides the procurement problems caused by the Board of Directors there
were procurement problems which delayed project completion. There were two main causes for these
delays. Firstly a number of bids had to be re-issued because of controversies on the evaluation of
reports for bids. For instance bids for the external line plant cable network for Kampala, Entebbe
and Jinja had to be re-issued because the original award recommendation was queried by IDA and the
Government of Uganda. Almost a whole year was lost due to this controversy. During the time key
implementation staff were dismissed by the Board the quality of procurement documents (bidding and
evaluation reports) deteriorated so much that practically every document had to be re-done. For
instance the evaluation report for digital multiple access radio systems had to be re-evaluated, a
process that took so long that by time the revised evaluation report was re-submitted, it was too close
to the closing date therefore could not be cleared by IDA.
22.   Lack of Computer Facilities: The lack of computer facilities was basically the main cause of
delayed accounts and audits and billing and collection. All these had to be done manually leading to
delays and inaccuracies. Although this problem was supposed to have been resolved during the
project, this was not achieved due to delays in project implementation caused by management
conflicts and procurement problems (paras 20 and 21).
23.   Lack of sufficient manpower: The lack of adequate trained manpower especially on the
finance side was a major bottleneck to the full achievement of project objectives. The lack of
manpower was partly responsible for delays in completion of annual accounts.
Proiect Sustainability
24.    As a result the project, the network more than doubled and the quality of service substantially
increased. This will lead to more revenues not only due to the increased size of the network but also
due to the enhanced quality of service which will result in more revenue per line being generated than
before. The financial benefits to be accrued to the project will enable future expansion and further
rehabilitation of the network. The institutional capacity that has been built during the project will
lead to better management and efficient operation of the telecommunications network. The
Government is committed to the development of the sector and is fully aware of the constraints that
have hindered its rapid development. These constraints have mainly been the lack of capital and poor
management. In order to overcome these constraints, the GOU has decided to privatize UPTC. The
management of UPTC will therefore soon be handed to the private sector. This will assure maximum
utilization of the newly installed assets. Sustainability of the benefits accrued due the project are
therefore assured.
Bank Performance
25.   IDA identified the project at a very difficult time (in 1985) when the security situation was
still very uncertain. Preparation and appraisal was completed after liberation of the country by the
NRA. IDA worked closely with Government and UPTC to identify the main sector issues and
constraints to project implementation. A number of actions were proposed as up-front
conditionalities to ensure timely implementation of the project including: employment of project



10                              Appendix I
Page 10 of 10
management consultants under PPF financing; and award of the external line rehabilitation contract
(60% of the project) and preparation of an institutional development plan as conditions of
effectiveness. These conditions were met with some delays partly because of the procurement
problems outlined in para 21 and due to the lack of capacity in UPTC to prepare the necessary
documents. After the above conditions were met the Credit was effective on June 5, 1990. in the
first six months the project took-off very well. On appointment of the new Board (November 1990)
delays started occurring in processing procurement documents. IDA quickly identified the cause of
the problem as the Board and brought it to the attention of the Minister of Works, Transport and
Communications. This problem continued until its resolution as per para 20. Fortunately most of the
procurement had been done up-front otherwise most of the components would not have been
completed by now. IDA made regular supervision missions and provided the necessary advice during
the conflicts and stood firm against elements that were delaying the project. At one time IDA was
considering suspending disbursement due to violation of legal covenants and unnecessary delays in
processing procurement documents. However, due to the good working relationship between IDA
and the MoWTC, this was avoided. IDA and MoWTC worked closely together to resolve the above
conflicts. IDA management was kept fully aware of these problems that eventually led to the need to
request for extension of closing date.
Borrower Performance
26.   The GOU and UPTC worked together very closely with IDA during project preparation and
supervision. However, the performance of UPTC deteriorated in 1991 and 1992 due to
Board/management conflicts. These conflicts were first highlighted in the April 1991 Supervision
Aide Memoire. The matter was eventually put to rest in March 1994 when the new Board re-
instated the project staff that had been unfairly dismissed and dismissing those members of
management who had collaborated with the old Board. It therefore took three years from the time
the matter was highlighted by IDA mission. The matter took so long because the problem was put in
the hands of a Commission of Inquiry (headed by a high court judge) which applied court proceedings
to make the investigations.
Future Operation
27.   The UPTC has not completed preparation of the operational plan yet. The operational plan is
intended to provide a realistic picture of how the benefits of the project will be maximized during the
operational phase of the project. Given the decision of the Government to privatize the UPTC, the
operational plan prepared by UPTC is likely to be completely modified by the private management
which is expected to be in place within the next two years. The management of the assets provided
under this project will be undertaken by the new private owner who will provide the necessary
expertise to maximize the benefits accrued from the project. UPTC has undertaken to finalize the
operational plan and submit it to IDA by November 15, 1994. The plan will form part of the final
version of this Aide Memoire.
Rogati Kayani
Draft/October 28, 1994
(Revised in Washington, on November 28, 1994)



Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT -CREDIT 1991-UG
FINAL SUPERVISION AND ICR PREPARATION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
To: Managing Director, UPTC
1.    A World Bank Telecommunications Mission consisting of Mr. Rogati Kayani, Senior
Telecommunications Engineer, conducted a final supervision mission of the Second
Telecommunications Project between October 24-28, 1995. The main objective of the mission
was to collect information for revising the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that
was prepared following the October 94 supervision mission. The October 94 mission had been
planned to be the final supervision mission because the project was scheduled to close on
December 31, 1994. The closing date was extended to December 31, 1995 - hence the need for
this mission.
2.    The mission met with senior officials of the Uganda Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (UPTC). The mission wishes to thank the UPTC for courtesies and cooperation
extended to it throughout its stay in Uganda. A summary of the areas of the draft ICR that need
revision are presented below.
Summary of Overall Implementation
3.    The Credit became effective on June 5, 1990 and commitments now stand at SDR 36.8
million, 96. 1% of the total credit of SDR38.3. At the end of the project the total undisbursed
funds will be SDR 1.5 million which might have to be canceled. The GOU was at one time
considering utilizing the remaining funds to assist in the restructuring and privatization of UPTC
but so far no formal request has been submitted to IDA.
Draft ICR Revision
4.    During the October 94 mission there were three main components that had not been
completed, for which the closing date extension was granted: rehabilitation of the Mpoma earth
station; installation of digital multiple access radio systems (DMARS); and training.
Rehabilitation of the Mpoma satellite earth station has now been completed and substantial
improvement in its performance has already been realized. The DMARS equipment has already
been delivered but installation has not started due to delays in clearing the equipment from
customs. A tax of US$300,000 (originally unbudgeted for) is required to be paid on the
equipment to satisfy a recent decision by the GOU to eliminate tax exemptions for
telecommunications equipment. This amount is expected to be raised shortly and installation to



2                          Appendix 2
Page 2 of 3
start by mid November, 1995 Completion is expected at the end of January 1996 and final
payment in February 1996.
5.    During the October 94 mission, implementation of most of the training program had not
been realized. The training program was the most important element of the institutional
development component and that that is the main reason that extension of the closing date was
granted. Substantial training has been implemented over the past ten months and more is still to
be implemented before the closing date. 144 UPTC staff have benefited from the fellowship
program against a target of 50 staff specified in the appraisal report. A larger number of staff
benefited from the program because the course duration varied from 2-12 weeks against a
duration of 2-12 months proposed in the appraisal report. Local fellowship training at Nakawa
Training Institute was also a success with a total of 265 UPTC staff (about 90 person-months)
being trained. Training under twinning arrangements was also satisfactory with 21 staff (43
person-months) being trained compared to a target of 24 staff.
Operational Plan
6.    The components completed during the extension period are expected to have substantial
impact on the operations of UPTC. The UPTC has agreed to revise the operational plan and
furmish a copy to IDA by November 30, 1995. UPTC has also undertaken to provide the
Borrower's evaluation of the project objectives and achievements by January 31, 1996.
Accounts and Audits
7.    Auditing of the FY94 was completed in March 1995, a delay of about three months. The
draft accounts for FY95 are expected to be submitted to the auditors by December 31,1995 and
audited by February 29, 1996. The Credit Agreement stipulates that auditing of financial
accounts should be completed by December 31, that is six months after end of financial year.
The UPTC will furnish copies of the draft and audited accounts to IDA by December 31, 1995
and March 15, 1996 respectively.
Billing and Collection
8.    The most pressing problem in the UPTC at the moment is the lack of a reliable billing
system. There are wide spread complaints of lack of bills and over-billing by UPTC which has
lead to serious problems in the collection of receivables. The receivable figures indicated in the
UPTC books do not reflect the true situation because most of these receivables are under
dispute. A billing system was supposed to be financed under this project but due to delays
caused by the conflicts between management and the Board during 1991-1993, the system could
not be procured. This is the only physical component that was not purchased under the project
and the results have been devastating. The UPTC is now evaluating tenders for a billing system



3                       Appendix 2
Page 3 of 3
to be financed under its own internally generated funds. The UPTC is urged to speed up this
process.
Future Operations
9.    The GOU has decided to privatize the telecommunications part of the UPTC and to
commercialize postal services, after separation of Posts and Telecommunications expected by
June 1996. Postal services have benefited from the two telecommunications projects that have
been extended to UPTC over the last 12 years. The development of postal services have relied
heavily on IDA financing. With privatization of the telecommunications sector, the GOU is
planning to approach IDA with a request to continue funding of the postal sector until such time
that this sector can be privatized. A study to lay down a postal development strategy that will
ensure GOU's exit from supporting the sector in the medium term will be carried out. The GOU
will use the recommendations of the study to decide on the type of assistance the GOU would
require from IDA to achieve its objectives.
10.   With the liberalization of the posts and telecommunications sectors and the privatization
of the telecommunications sector, the regulatory aspects of the UPTC will be vested on
regulatory body which will include, inter alia, the frequency management section of the UPTC.
The mission was informed that this section will require substantial technical assistance to build
the capacity that is required to manage the frequency spectrum in a fully liberalized and dynamic
environment. The requirements will be submitted to IDA together with other requirements for
establishing the regulatory body.
Next Steps
11.   The plan is to finalize the ICR in the next three months. In order to do so, the UPTC and
the mission have agreed to take the following actions:
*  UPTC to revise its operational plan and submit to IDA by November 30, 1995
*  UPTC to complete the Borrowers evaluation of the project and submit a copy to IDA
under the signature of the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning by January 31,
1996.
*  IDA to submit draft revised ICR to GOU for comments before January 15, 1996.
Rogati Kayani
October 30, 1995
cc:   Minister of Works, Transport and Communications



I
. I



APPENDIX 3
BORROWER' S EVALUATION
,.11






Appendix 3
Page. 1 of 11
Ttlephones: Minister;                          Ministry of Finance and
Kampala 243054 & 232370                   Economic Planning,
KaznpaIa234700l9 (10 Lines)             P.O. Box 8147,
Telfem:  67NSEC0                                Karmpala,
EC. 76/158                         Uganda.     4
hf sa pny qon i           TM  REPI,8J OF UGANDA,
ubX - l -4jg No.__         lic                      MCG O UM
18th January, 1996
Mr. L. Borin,
Ag. Division Chief
Public and Private Enterprises,
The World Bank,
1818H Street N.W.                                   'g6
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Borin,                       ,
RE:  THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATION REHABILITATION
PROJECT. IDA CR. NO. 1991 UG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I am writing with reference to the Development Credit Agreement
dated December 20, 1989 and concluded between IDA and the
Government of the Republic of Uganda for SDR 38.3 million towards
funding the Second Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project
Credit under Uganda Posts and Telecommunications (UPTC). As you
are aware, this credit which became effective on June 5, 1990 was
initially set to close on December 31, 1993, but through various
extensions, it eventually closed on December, 31, 1993.
I am happy to report that this project has been satisfactorily
completed, except for one component on the computerisation of
subscriber records and consultancy services associated with it.
The UPTC is proposed to meet this component by procuring a new
computerised billing system and subscriber and weal network
record computerisation using its won funds.



Appendix 3
2                        P4ge 2 of 11
As required under the DCA, I am officially forwarding herewith
the Implementation Completion Report(ICR) which has been prepared
by the  UPTC  in liaison  with the  Government.   I take this
opportunity to express the Government sincere thanks to IDA for
the assistance rendered to Government to successfully complete
the project.
Yours sincerely,
E. Tumusiime-Mutebile
PERMANENT SECRETARY/SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
c.c. The Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication,
ENTEBBE
The Managing Director,
Uganda Posts and Telecommunications
KAMPALA



Appendix 3
3                                   Page 3 of II
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLMON REPORT
A.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.     Posts and Telecommunications services within Uganda and outside Uganda is provided by the
Uganda Posts and Telecommunication Corporation (UPTC) which was established by UPTC
Act of 1983 and which replaced the formner East Africa Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation(EAPTC). The EAPTC served the three countries of East Africa namely
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda . The World Bank supported Telecommunication development
projects during the East Africa community days by giving Loans 493-EA, 675-EA and 914-EA
which were completed 1974, 1975 and 1977.
2.     Immediately after the 1978-9 civil war in Uganda, the Government embarked on the 1982-87
Economic Recovery and Rehabilitation program to overcome the ravages of the wars including
postal and Telecommunication sectors. The first Posts and Telecommunications Rehabilitation
project under IDA credit No. 1367- UG of SDR 20.4 million (US $ 22.0 millions) was
implemented from 1983 to 1987. During the implementation more civil conflicts occurred
during 1985 - 86 and a number of completed components were destroyed and/or looted. This
caused losses and the operational and organizational objectives were not fully met.
3.     The Second Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project under IDA Credit No. 1991-UG of
SDR 38.3 millions (US $ 52.3 million) was identified in 1985 during the implementation of the
first project but it could not be appraised until 1988 due to civil wars in the country. The
project was approved by the Bank's Board of directors on 14th March, 1989, signed on 12th
December, 1989 and became effective on 5th June, 1990. The original closing date of 31st
Dec. 1993 was extended to 31st Dec. 1994 and then 31st Dec, 1995.
4.     The main objectives of the project were:-
(a)    Develop UPTC along commercial lines through improvement in its management, fina
ncial and operating performance, with emphasis on institutional development.
(b)    Rehabilitate the telecommunications network, equipment and improve quality of
services, and
(c)    Enhance revenue generation from assets through impmvement in operating efficiency,
elimination of critical bottlenecks and appropriate tariff levels.
B.     ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Stnucural Set-up and Pollk, Statement
5.     The UPTC Act of 1983, requires UPTC to provide all domestic and international public
telecommunications services and to operate on sound commercial and technical principles,
generate enough revenue to meet the expenditures and make a reasonable profit for fuxtue
investment. During the project preparation Uganda Government and UPTC adopted a policy
statement to supplement the institutional roles and objectives in the Act and to serve as a guide
to the management. However, the monopoly given to UPTC has been lifted in certain service
areas so as to allow liberation such that other agencies/companies can operate specified
Postal and Telecommunications services.



Appendix 3
4                                    Page 4 of 11
6.     During the appraisal ,Government of Uganda (GOU) and UPTC prepared a comprehensive
institutional development strategy and related plan of action to strengthen UPTC's institutional
capability and improve its management. At that time the strategy did not anticipate the
liberation policy which GOU later followed from 1993 and which has now created
competition. The delay in achieving the project's aims were mainly due to the conflicts
between UPTC Board of Directors and Management during the period Sept. 1991 to late
1992, and this forced the project's closing date to be extended twice to 31st December, 1995
from the original date of 31st December, 1993.
Institutional Achievements
7.     The institutional Development Program was focused on restoring discipline, accountability and
efficiency of UPTC and building capacity through training and twinning. UPTC organization
structure was reorganized during the early project implementation and there was a complete
restructuring of UPTC between 1994 and 1995.
(a)    The posts of Deputy Managing Director/Telecomms Services and Deputy Managing
Director/Postal services were introduced and filled.
(b)     Qualified Accountants for the levels of Chief Accountants, Principal Accountants
were recruited.
(c)    Supplies and stores management was strengthened through the assistance of British
Telecoms. At the same time there has been significant improvement in Human
Resources Management area through introduction of manpower planning, further staff
training and development as well as introduction of performance appraisals. The
status of implementation of the program and its main aspects is detailed below.
8.     Training
The short term objective of the training program was to meet present needs for the existing
network and the newly installed network. The long term objective was oriented to meet future
technological advancement in the sector. In order to fulfill these objectives studies were
carried out by TELECOM EIREAN SERVICES INTERNATIONAL (TESI) to:
(a)    determine the necessary staffing levels. The study was completed in March 1994
and most of the recommendations have been implemented, and
(b)    identify training needs and carry out a training program design. The study was
completed in December, 1992. The recommendations could not be implemented due
to the conflicts between UPTC's Board of Directors and UPTC management. When
the Board was replaced and a new Board put in place in November, 1993, the
fellowship training programme was given a go ahead.
Under the program, training was undertaken overseas and locally at UPTC Training
Institute under a fellowship scheme. Overseas training was for specialized courses
which could not be conducted locally because of either lack of expertise or the
necessary equipment. The Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
(ESAMI) conducted tailor made management development workshops for UPTC's
top, upper and middle managers. AFRALTI conducted Advanced External plant for
Managers, Total Quality Management in Telecommns, Marketing of Telecomms



Appendix 3
5                                   Page 5 of 11
services and application of Market Research, Common Channel Signalling No. 7 and
Telecomms Equipment Protection .
In all, training was a success considering that 144 UPTC staff were sent for
fellowship training for various courses ranging 2-12 weeks giving a total 220 person
months compared to the original target of 50 UPTC staff for courses ranging from 2
to 12 months. Local training covered 265 UPTC staff i.e. 90 person months. Equally
well, training under twinning was also a success with 21 UPTC staff (43 person
months) being trained in the program, although this was less than the original target
of 24.
9.     Finance and Audit
M/s Price Water House was appointed at the beginning of the project to undertake a study of
the financial and audit systems in UPTC. They covered the areas of fmnance and accounts,
internal audit, corporate planning and management information systems (MIS) and a
comprehensive report covering thc current situation ,and recommending new procedures and
control was produced. UPTC was not completely satisfied with the report on the Internal
Audit because they did not produce some of the documentation for the recommended
systems and internal audit programs as required by the TORs. UPTC implemented most of
the recommendations with the exception of the major recommendation of computerisation of
all aspects of the accounts and finance. UPTC is in the process of acquiring a new billing
system using its own resources. In the mean time some computers have been acquired and
computer training for all finance and accounts personnel is going on. Unfortunately the
consultancy service in the finance, audit and MIS Departments of UPTC which was to
concentrate on:
(a)    implementation of Price Waterhouse recommendation.
(b)    Design and implementation of an integrated MIS to cover all departments, and
(c)    Provision of training for UPTC staff;
was left out of the project because of the delays in awarding the contract. UPTC will cover it
during the operational plan.
10     Financial Performance:
The financial performance of UPTC improved year after year during the project. This is
pardy due to the proper revisions of tariffs at the beginning of the project and during the
project and also due to the intensive efforts in collecting the receivables. UPTC realised an
operating profit in Financial Years 89, 90, 91 but foreign exchange losses turned these profits
to operating losses. In Financial Years 92,.93 and 94, UPTC made modest profits after taking
into account foreign exchange losses/gains. The operating profits are adjusted in the audited
statements to take into account the fact that UPTC bears the foreign exchange losses on its
foreign currency denominated debts (mainly from IDA). After taking into account these
foreign exchange losses, the audited statements show profits of Shs. 19.4 billions for Financial
Year 94, Ug. Shs. 5.6 billion for Financial Year 93 and Ug. Sh. 0.9 billion for Financial Year
92.



Appendix 3
6                                   Page 6 of 1I
11.    Bihlina
Before the project, bills were some times as late as five months but now bills come out within
6 weeks after the end of the billing period. The accuracy of bills has also improved due to the
introduction of automatic receptors at the bill paying points in Kampala, and introduction of
computer terminals in Sales Office/Kampala to enter proper subscriber particulars immediately
the telephone connection is completed. Computerisation was part of the project but its
implementation was delayed due to Board/Management conflicts. It is being implemented
through use of UPTC' own funds and is expected to be completed in 1996 .  UPTC has also
introduced a weekly billing system for high users for international services in Kampala such as
hotels, oil companies, banks, etc. These customers form about 30% of the total billing
volume. The outcome of this exercise has been rewarding.
12.    Collection
Due to the continued increase in Government indebtedness UPTC and the Government
decided that the government indebtedness be offset by the debt swap through which UPTC
loan from Government (IDA) is offset against outstanding telephone bills owed by
government. Other efforts made to improve collection include:-
(a)    Strengthening the in-house collection efforts and use of external firms for debt
collection as well as employing external legal agencies to take legal action for
subscribers refusing to pay,
(b)    issuing bills on time, and
(c)    Intensive exercise of disconnection of subscribers in debt and a fine for reconnection
13.    Tariffs
Throughout the project, the Government and UPTC have been fully aware of the importance
of regular adjustment of tariffs, to take account of inflation and foreign exchange fluctuations.
In pursuit of this objective, tariffs were increased by 50 - 500% July 1988, and by a similar
percentage in December 1989. In September 1991, the international tariffs were increased to
compensate for exchange rate variations and at the same time these tariffs were pegged to the
US dollar rates. It was after this adjustment that a net inflow of traffic into Uganda started
and the ratio of incoming to outgoing calls which was 0.77 by then had reversed to 2.44 by
April 1994. In July 1993,on the advice of IDA,UPTC made a study of the demand and
revenue estimation model that had been used by the Sultanate of Ornan to reduce international
tariffs. After the study tour by 2 UPTC staff, the international tariffs were reduced by about
47% and a general increase in domestic tariffs was effected in May 1994. In August 1995,
the international tariffs were again reduced by 25 % but the domestic tariffs increased,
especially the local calls. International traffic has in general been increasing and domestic
traffic will be carefully analysed by UPTC in 1996.
14.    Accounts and Audits:
Prior to implementation of this project, UPTC used to be late in fmalising its accounts and
audit and the delays were in the range of 12 months behind schedule. This was due to lack of
qualified manpower and a completely manual accounting system by then. The manpower
position has greatly improved and now UPTC has 20 staff with accounting qualifications as
compared to 6 at the beginning of the project. The FY93 draft financial statements were
submitted to the Auditor General in October 1993 though the UPTC Act and Agreement
require UPTC accounts to be audited within six months of the financial year end. The FY93



Appendix 3
7                                 Page7ofll
accounts were completed in June 1994, six months behind schedule but that of FY94 were
completed in March 1995, about 3 months behind schedule. There has been continuous
improvement.
Physical and Operational Achievements
15.    Completion Schedule:
The following sub-projects were successfully completed:
(a)    Rehabilitation and expansion of the Outside Cable Networks at Kampala, Entebbe and
Jinja which involved the complete replacement of the old fault prone paper insulated
copper cable by modem jelly filled copper cable, PCM cables and optical fibre cables.
The total cable pairs was 84,000.
(b)    Purchase of essential materials, vehicle and spare parts for installation of new
subscribers and maintenance of the network. These included teleprinters (200), fax
machines (100), telephone sets (30,000) , payphones (200), modems (100), motor
cycles (100), vehicles (118), bicycles (700), telephone cables and drop wire, cable
jointing materials, tools and test equipment, generators , switchboards, training school
equipment, postal items(Date stamps, private letter boxes, mail bags, weighing scales,
unit safes, aerogrammes) Rehabilitation of the Mpoma Earth Station and the
installation of Digital Multiple Access Radio Systems (DMARS) in the Central and
South Western Uganda.
16.    Proiect Costs and Financing
A comparison of the estimated costs of the main project components, at appraisal and on
completion, is shown in Annex A table 8A. At the closing date, the committed amount is US
$ 5.1 million and the whole amount will be disburse by February 1996.
There is a balance of US $ 2.0 million which will not be committed and disbursed. The
balance is due to the cancellation of the sub project on consultancy services in the Finance,
Audit and MIS Department of UPTC. Due to the fluctuation of the dollars to SDR, the total
project comes to US $ 53.1 compared to the original amount of US $ 52.3. Generally the cost
of the project at completion is about 7% lower than initially estimated due to favourable prices
as result of international competitive bidding which was used on most of the components.
17.    Operational Performance:
The project has had substantial impact on the rate of subscriber connections and quality of
service. At the completion in December 1993, of the outside plant rehabilitation and
expansion of Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja, a verification exercise had to be carried out to get
rid of 'ghost subscribers'. All existing and prospective subscribers were requested to verify/
apply for the services. At the beginning of the exercise, records showed that there were
about 32,000 working subscribers but after the verification the number dropped to 22,000.
Since then the number has grown to 41277 as at 30th Sept, 1995. This means an increase of
19,227 new subscribers in 21 months representing an annual growth of about 50%.
Unfortunately this rate of gwoth will be affected because all the telephone exchanges such as
Kampala Central, Nsambya, Makerere, Mbuya, Kyambogo, Mengo, Lubowa, Entebbe and
Jinja are full to capacity. The replacement and expansion of these exchanges remains a
matter of highest priority. There has also been drastic reduction in the number of faulty lines.
Before completion of this component there was an average of 20% of lines faulty at any one



Appendix 3
8                                 Page 8 of II
im but this dropped to an average of 2.1 % (September 95 figure). Progress in physical and
operatioda performance of UPTC's network under the project and for the future operation in
accordance with UPTC's operational plan are shown in tables 5 and 6 of Annex A as per
available data and estimates.
C      MAJOR FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control:
18     Devaluation:
In the early period of the project when the Uganda Shilling was unstable, the UPTC suffered
heavy foreign exchange losses due to devaluation and as a result UPITC could not realise any
operating profit in the first three years of the project. In addition, UPTC's foreign debt soared
during this period leading to the Unsustainable debt to equity ratio of 0.94. In FY 94 and FY
95 the Uganda Shilling appreciated relative to the US dollar and the Uganda Shilling is now
fairly stable.              I
Factors Generally Subject to Government and UPTC's Control
19     Management Conflicts:
For three years (November 1990-November 1993) the project operated under very difficult
conditons. The project started very well until in November 1990 when a new Board of
Directors was appointed. The new Board decided to ran UPTC   on a day to day basis
which caused conflicts with UPTC management. Procurement of materials became a problem
and was delayed. Eventually the Board suspended key project implementation staff in
September 1991. The contract for the rehabilitation of the outside plant networks for
Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja (60% of the project) suffered most. This Board which was
appointed three months after effectiveness of the contract refused to approve the revised
drawings after detailed survey by the contractor because the survey led to an increase of 3%
of the contract price. The Board refused to pay for the local civil works for about 14
months. The contract was supposed to have been completed 26 months after effectiveness i.e
October 1992 but it was not completed until December 1993 due to the Board bad attitude to
this component of the project. In September 1992, a commission of inquiry was set up by the
Minister of Works, Transport and Communications to investigate the problems at UPTC. The
recommendations of the commission led to replacement of the Board in November 1993,
dismissal of some members of management in March 1994, and reinstatement of the key
project implementation staff who had been suspended. The conflict led to 14 months delay and
in addition UPTC paid a penalty of US $ 420,000 to compensate the contractor for the delays.
The same conflict delayed the implementation of twinning and fellowship training until 1994
and 1995.
20     Procurement:
Besides the procurement problems caused by the Board, there were other procurement
problems which delayed completion. The bids for the Outside Plant Networks for Kampala,
Entebbe and Jinja had to be reissued because the original UPTC recommedation for award
was queried by the bidders, IDA and Government and this caused a delay of about one year.
Again during the period of over a year when the key project implementation staff were
suspended by the Board the preparation of bidding documents and evaluaton reports were not
of the required standards and almost all documents had to be redone.



Appendix 3
9                                 Page 9 of 11
21.    Lack of Computer Facilities:
The lack of appropriate computer facilities was the main cause of delayed accounts, audit,
billing and collection. All these activities had inaccuracies. The problem was not olved in
the project because the computerisation and billing system was not implemented due to the
Board/Management conflicts which caused the delay in procurement. UPTC has undertaken
to finance this component and it will be completed in 1996.
22.    Lack of sufficient Manpower:
The lack of adequate trained manpower, especially on the finance side, was a major bottleneck
at the beginning of the project to the full achievement of the project objectives. Through
proper recruitment, fellowship training and other training, trained manpower is no longer a
major problem to UPTC.
D      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
As a result of the project, the network more than doubled, the telephone connections increased
from 12,000 to 41,277 and the quality of service substantially improved from 20% to 2.1%
faulty lines over total connections at any given time. This lead to increased benefits from
telecommunication services to the overall economy and thus more revenue to UPTC. The
financial benefits accruing from the project will enable future expansion and further
rehabilitation of the network. The institutional capacity that has been built during the project
will lead to better management and efficient operation of the telecommunication network. The
Government is committed to the development of the sector and is aware of the constraints that
have hindered its operation and its rapid development. These constraints have mainly been the
lack of capital. In order to overcome this, the Government decided to privatise UPTC. The
management of UPTC will therefore be handed to the private sector. This will enable
maximum and efficient utilisation of the newly installed assets and ensure the sustainabilility of
the project.
E    BANK PERFORMANCE
24     IDA's performance was satisfactory from the start of the project. Identification of the project
was done when Uganda had a lot of insecurities due to civil wars, and preparation and
appraisal were completed when Uganda was secure under NRM Govermment. IDA worked
closely with GOU and UPTC to identify the components of the project. To ensure timely
implementation a number of conditionalities were given to GOU and UPTC which were to be
fulfilled before effectiveness of the credit. Some conditions were met with some delays but
eventually the credit became effective on 5th June 1990. When the problems of conflicts
between the UPTC Board of Directors and the Management surfaced IDA stood firm agaist
elements that were delaying the project and discussed the issue with the Ministries concerned.
Due to the IDA's good understanding, the project closing date was extended twice to ensure
proper implementation and many World Bank Supervision missions to Uganda were made
which greatly assisted GOU and UPTC to resolve several issues.
F    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.    The GOU and UPTC worked very closely with IDA during the project identification,
preparation and implementation. In the first six months, the project took off very well and
procurement was fast but when new Board of Directors was appointed in November 1990



Appendix 3
10                                 Page lOofIl
delays started occurring in processing of procurement document. The revised bills of quantity
and drawings for the Outside Plant Networks for Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja were not
approved until after 14 months. The conflicts between UPTC Board and Management
continued until November 1993 when that Board was replaced by the a new one, the project
staff reinstated and some UPTC staff on Management who had collaborated with the old Board
dismissed/retired. From then on the GOU and UPTC continued to work closely until the
project was completed in December 1995.
G    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.    The project outcome is satisfactory though its implementation was delayed by two years. The
physical objectives were achieved except for the computerisation. Concrete progress has
already been made in institution building in terms of consultancy services, fellowship training,
local training and twinning of trainers. The Management studies that were carried out have
assisted the GOU and UPTC to re-focus on efficiency improvement. Implementation of the
recommendations of these studies have led to the reorganisation of UPTC into a more
customer oriented commercial entity. A new organization structure is now in place and senior
positions were filled through competition within and outside the UPTC.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.    Onerational Plan.
UPTC has prepared its Operational Plan for the period FY 96 to FY 2001 during which. the
benefits from the project would be maximized. The plan reflects the overall delay of about 2
years in completing the project and having the new assets in operation. The working line
capacities of 47, 000 subscribers initially appraised to be reached in 1994 will be realized in
1996/7. By then, the additional capacity of the local networks from the project, also using
available and some additional switching capacities, will enable the establishment and
maintenance of a yearly 15% growth of the number of customers. On the revenue side,
current turnover per line is about 5% higher than at project inception. No assumption is made
on the impact of the new tariffs but experience shows that improved tariffs structure increases
usage. An improved and more efficient entity should then be ready for the proposed sector
reforms, given the decision of the Govenmment to privatize management is expected to be in
place within the next two years. The management of the assets provided under this project
will be undertaken by the new private owner who will provide the necessary expertise to
maximize the benefits accrued from the project.
28.    Finaneial and Economic Rate of Return.
With the above assumptions in network growth and usage, the estimated intemal rate of return
(IRR) is 14.9% compared to 10.6% estimated at appraisal. This is mainly due to delayed
investments in the non-revenue generating iterns (training and twinning) and the
implementation of higher tariffs than estimated at appraisal. The economic rate of return
(ERR) is estimated at 18.1% compared to 14.3% estimated at appraisal. The ERR understates
the benefits. It does not take into amcount consumer surplus and external benefits to non-users
of the network. The estimated rates of return are satisfactory though slightly lower than the
average for telecommunications projects in general because the bulk of the investments were
for replacement rather than expansion.The expansion element was only about 50%.



Appendix 3
11                               Page 11 of 11
I      KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.    It is evident from the above tht despite numerous implementation problems, with persistence
and firmness it is possible to achieve satisfactory results. The implementadon of both projects
was slow and difficult but at the end all of the objectives were achieved. One rnajor lesson of
this project is that the Board and Management of a public entity could have diverse objectives.
In this project, the Management was committed to the succsful completion of the project but
the previous Board intentionally frusted Management's efforts. It is therefore ssential that
project objectives and targets are clearly defined during prepartion and IDA has to ensure that
the borrower remains on course during implementation to reduce domination by self interest.
30.    Despite the achievements of this project, the available facilities are still far below the demand
in terms of quantity and quality. The major problem remains to be Lack of capital and
management capacity. In order to solve these problems in the long term, the GOU has
decided to privatize UPTC by selling 51S if its stake to a strategic investor. The GOU has
also decided to license another operator to compete with the privatized UPTC. IDA and IFC
are misting the GOU to implaemnt these decisions.






_________________________________________                                                                                                  BED 28044~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 204
N                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32"                                 P
-''' SUDAN N           ErHIOPA A 
ZAIRE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISUDAN
ZIE /K-n6 /                                                                                                                                                                KENYA*%. 
KENYAt,r.,-                                                      ....    \ -                                    -- -.KEY
Rwir        -                                               -.                     oo                  
BU*O   TAZAI                 (iA                              t'1                        '           -_                                                         . ,
WRP41,/   >  ,L,4,,                            o'                   /                     ''~~~ IL
TANZANLA           erzo                            .                   e                                         Kilgum                                        I
30                                       ?
UGANDA
TELEPHONE NETWORK                                  ,.01
EXISTING EXCHANGES AND TRUNKS                            1
E    NATIONAL SWITCHING CENTER                               .                                              - -  -[i--  ./
. AREA SWITCHiNrG CENTERS                                                                     ,
GROUP SWITCHING CENTERS                              _
0    AUTOMAllC EXCHANGES                                      f   )                                      Apoc          \
f#   MANUAL EXCHANGES (DEPARTMENTAL)               ,                                     A'    Pr '
St   MANUAL EXCHANGES (AGENCY)                                                 Mosindi                                       74-_     \  -  t Y_
-  TRUK lINES,.                                                                                                            -/                                          <
'   RIVERS                                                  H.- Hoim  '             '
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                /                                              N ,  a6 -.                                                              - -
O 10 20 30 10 50 60 F                               2                                                    oI-       :     x,    IKml
'    I    '    '   2 ~ ~  ~     -Kiag                                                                           I        '
O 10 20 3 0 O Mi K rs M-iL,
Foil             _Kumiro                                                 3o
^   ,,,                   Mulod    "_
ZAIRE                 ,                              7<Z-~-:                          =                     sanIa K--- -jpa6   7/                                KENYA
                                       '-                  -                  E                                                                   -
--   A ip.gh K   -                      '       ; _ _               I BuLob | i 1 ,__ 7-7
n. ~ ~    ~     ~    - Eaton -do  J                                                                  Ezw/ Mbm,f  F   -   aiiotuo ik    
D.Wb^G~~~ -......                                                                                                     ( ','.".,,__________,......-''-'-'-'-'-So6
Dl- ord                                   um                                                                      B qwn \u/ /.-k.
/                                         -cc  od0 ,,langal1 kK K _,i%
S  /                                 - EuLoo       I                     Buk&a~~F  Lok
', .   ~,  /  IMbororo    cTANZANIA
t    i.s0'tRWANDA   '                                           : 3i2 --73-
b/ce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN "












