Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7437-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
UGANDA POSTS AND T.ELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
FEBRUARY 21, 1989
Africa Country Department II
Africa Technical Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Uganda shilling (U Sh)
US$1.00 - U Sh 150
U Sh 1,000 = US$6.67
FISCAL YEAR
Government and UPTC: July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB          -     African Development Bank
DEL           -     Direct Exchange Line
EAPTC         -     East Africa Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
INTELSAT      -     International Satellite Organization
ISD           -     International Subscriber Dialling
NTC           -     Nippon Telecommunications Consultants
PANAFTEL      -     Pan African Telecommunication (Network)
POSB          -     Post Office Savings Bank
STD           -     Subscriber Trunk Dialling
UPTC          -     Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
VFT           -      Voice Frequency Telegraph
VHF/UHF       -      Very High Frequency/Ultra High Frequency



FOR  FMCIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PaRe No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .... ..      ............ ................ . i-iii
I.      INTRODUCTION ...................  .........  ............ 1
Project History   . .......................... .    1
Economic Context. ... ..... ...................I  1
II.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR .......................  2
A. Background     ............... .............   .    2
Use and Quality of Service ...................   2
Existing Facilities . . ........................  3
Demand for Service . . .........................  4
B. The Sector .   .      ...................................   4
Sector Goals ................. ............... .  4
Sector Constraints ........... ............... .   4
C. IDA Strategy ..........            ..    . .5
Experiene with Past Lending .................n   5
Project Focus .............       ..     .......  6
III.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT .........................    6
A. Description  .     .    . .................... .   6
The Projict ..................................   7
Telecommunications Rehabilitation .....ao....n    7
Institutional Development       ...     .      8
Recurrent Purchases of Spares, Materials
and Tools for Maintenance ...............  8
B. Costs and Financing ......................... .  9
Program Costs   .     ........................ .   9
Project Costs              . .... 9
Contingencies ............................... .  10
Project Financing .............  11
C. Procurement and Implementation         .....  12
Procurement .......... ........   12
Disbursements  . ..... 13
Project Implementation ....................... 14
Performance Monitoring     ...... ....... 15
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs.
Gerald Buttex, Task Manager; Asaf Malik, Senior Financial Analyst; and
Jerry Silverman, Senior Public Sector Management Officer who visited Uganda
in May 1988.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.  THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ..............           ...............  15
A. Origin, Objectives and Ro ee                                15
B. Organization and Management...    16
Board of Directors.......................               16
Management and Organizational Structure   16
C. Operating Policies and Procedures. .                        17
Policy Statement ..... .                   . ...        17
Operating Procedures            ....                    17
D. Institutional Issues               ...17
Staff and Training    ...17
Billing and Collection. .                               19
Accounting and Auditing. .                              19
Institutional Development    .              ..          20
Corporate Planning a         n    n    i     ng.........    21
Management Information System   ...                     22
Financial Planning and Management  ...                  22
Post Office Savings Bank..                              23
Technical Assistance for Institutional.
Development                ...23
V. FINAUJCIAL ANALYSIS                   .....25
Past Financial Performance    ...25
Future Financial Performance   ...27
Financial Arrangements    ...28
VI.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....................                 .....    29
Benefnits ...... 29
Tariffs ..*..................... 29
Least Cost Solution.......         .                        30
Return on Investment              ..             .31
Riss.............                      ks.........   31
Environmental and Health Aspects ........   .....  31
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION. ....  32



List of Annexes
Page No.
1.  Regional Distribution of Telephone Service ...........  35
2.  Economic Activities of Telephone Subscribers .........  36
3.  Existing Telephone Facilities ........................  37
4.  Basic Statistics ............................. ...... 39
5.  Telephone Demand ................................ .. .  40
6.  Program and Project Costs ............................  41
7.  Schedule of Disbursements ............................  42
8. Terms of References for Consultancy Services for the.
Local Cable Networks Rehabilitation ................  44
9.  Implementation Schedule ..............................  53
10. Performance Indicators ...............................  54
11. UPTC Organization Chart ..............................  55
12. Statement of Policy ..................................  56
13. Institutional Development ............................  59
14. TOR for Institutional Development ....................  77
15. UPTC - Number of Staff Positions .....................  85
16. Twinning Arrangements ................................  86
17. Income Statements - Histor:'cal and Forecast ..........  89
18. Balance Sheets - Historicai and Forecast .............  90
19. Fun- .-low Statements - Historical and Forecast ......  91
20. Assumptions used in Financial Statements .............  92
21. UPTC Tariffs .........................................  94
22. Return on Investment ................. I ...............  97
MAP:    IBRD No. 16688 - UGANDA



UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Government of Uganda
Beneficiary:             Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(UPTC)
Amount:                  SDR 38.3 million (US$52.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with a 40 years repayment period
Relending Terms:         The Government of Uganda will relend SDR 33.5
million (US$45.7 million) of the IDA credit to UPTC
at an annual rate of 8? to be repaid over 15 years
after 4 years of grace, with UPTC assuming foreign
exchange risk. The balance of the IDA credit of
SDR 4.8 million (US$6.6 million) allocated to
finance institutional strengthening and development
will be passed on by the Government to UPTC as
equity contribution.
Project Description:    The project is an essential part of IDA's strategy
for assisting Uganda in implementing its economic
recovery program and would be implemented during
1989-93. It would, as a part of UPTC overall
investment plan, pursue the rehabilitation of the
essential telecommunications infrastructure and
rebuilding of UPTC into an operationally efficient
and financially viable organization started under
the First Rehabilitation Project. The project
would finance: (i) technical assistance, training
and fellowships to further strengthen UPTC's
management, planning and operational capabilities;
(ii) the rehabilitation of the local cable networks
and subscriber facilities in Kampala, Entebbe and
Jinja, which is a first priority component of UPTC
rehabilitation and development pregram; and, (iii)
equipmer.t, vehicles, spare parts and materials for
telecommunications naintenance and operations.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:      Benefits.  The project woald help rehabilitate an
essential infrastructure sector which was seriously
damaged by the civil war and years of lack of
suitable maintenance. Benefits from the proposed
project will reach most sectors of Uganda's economy
and will be fplt throughout private business and
Government administration. A direct benefit would
be the increased efficiency and productivity of
UPTC activities, achieved through UPTC's
institutional development. In addition, revenues
that would be generated from the project would
mobilize substantial domestic resources for
Government at a time of severe budgetary
constraints.
Risks. The main risks revolve around the overall
uncertain country situation and UPTC's ability to
attract, motivate, train and retain qualified
people and to operate efficiently and on a
commercially viable basis. Given the Government's
commitment to the speedy rehabilitation of key
sectors of the economy and, Government and UPTC
efforts and project emphasis on upgrading UPTC
operations and financial performance, these are
acceptable risks.
Estimated costs:
Item                            Local      Foreign   Total    Z of Total
-(US$ million)------
Kampala-Entebbe-Jinja                  3.4        28.4      31.8        54
Network Rehabilitation
Computerization                        -           0.6       0.6         1
Rural Call Stations                    0.5         1.3       1.8         3
Subscriber Terminal                    0.5         2.0       2.5         4
Equipment
Cable Material                         0.9         1.5       2.4         4
Vehicles                               -           1.8       1.8         3
Engineering Consultants                            1.7*/     1.7         3
Institutional Development              -           5.8       5.8        10
Total Base Cost                        5.3        43.1      48.4        82
Physical Contingencies             0.3        2.2        2.5         4
Price Contingencies                0.9        4.0        4.9         9
Total Investment                   6.5       49.3       55.8        95
Recurrent Purchases                    _           3.0        3.0        5
Total Cost                         6.5       52.3       58.8       100
*/ Includes PPF of US$1.0 million disbursed prior to 1988.



- L iA.  -
Financing Sources:
Local           Foreign           Total           2 of Total
----   US$ million Equivalent-------
IDA               -                52.3             52.3              89
UPTC              6.5                -               6.5              11
Total             6.5              52.3             58.8             100
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY:             1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
---------US$ million Equivalent-----------------
Annual              2.0        12.0       12.0       14.0        8.0        4.3
Cumulative          2.0        14.0       26.0       40.0       48.0       52.3
Economic Rate of Return: 14.32
Map: IBRD No. 16688 - UGANDA



I. INTRODUCTION
Project History
1.0J.    Originally appraised in September 1985, the processing of the
Second Telecommunications Project has been impeded by the resurgence of the
civil war and the subsequent inability of the sector's institution to meet
the conditions required to complete appraisal. IDA, however, closely
followed up the development of the situation during the supervision
missions of *Fhe first project in June and November 1986 and in July 1987 a
preparation mission for a possible project reappraisal went to Uganda to
assess the status of the project, and establish a plan of action for
further processing.
1.02     The request of the Government of Uganda for an advance of US$1.0
million under the Project Preparation Facili   (PPF) was approved by IDA in
May 1987. The advance covered the cost of preparatory engineering
assistance for the project. This work is now completed and has resulted in
the issuance of bids for the main project component. Preappraisal mission
took place in January 1988 and the appraisal mission in May 1988. Although
significant progress has been made since the July 1987 mission in
convincing the Government of Uganda and the management of Uganda Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC) to address the major institutional
problems, difficulties that UPTC encountered to engage senior financial
staff or technical assistance personnel to prepare reliable financial
statements has been a major obstacle to finalize project processing. A
second PPF request of US$500,000 which includes the funding of the
essential technical assistance personnel was approved in October 1988.
Economic Context
1.03     The Ugandan economy faces formidable short-term challenges and
continuing difficulties well into the 1990s. In the short run, Uganda must
take steps to reduce inflation and achieve stability while at the same time
mounting a major recovery effort to address the devastation caused by war,
insecurity and mismanagement. Rehabilitation is the key short-term
objective for the industry to substantially increase capacity utilization.
In the transport and communications sectors, the immediate challenge is to
repair damaged infrastructure, remove existing bottlenecks in order to
facilitate the flow of goods and information within the country and with
the outside world, which is essential to economic recovery and growth.
Institutional strengthening is also a major objective of the Government
Economic Recovery Program, the first priority being to restore discipline,
accountability and efficiency in the public sector with a view to improve
resource mobilization and allocation.
1.04     The project is expected to make a significant contribution toward
the achievement of these objectives. It would support the 1988/89-1992/93
telecommunications investment program, which has been carefully tailored
within the framework of the overall Public Investment Program. The project
would focus on: (i) rehabilitating telecommunications facilities damaged
during the internal disturbances and run down due to lack of maintenance,



- 2 -
and (ii) rebuilding institutional capability within the sector. An
important institution strengthening component will put emphasis on
developing UPTC to effectively operate and sustain itself as a commercially
viable utilityt designing and implementing corporate planning, and a
management information system; setting up sound operating and accounting
procedures and financial control and management practices; introducing
guidelines for efficient maintenance and service standards; and
implementing comprehensive human resource development and training
programs.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
A. Background
2.01     With the exception of limited telecommunication networks operated
by the military, police, civil aviation and railways to meet their
specialized requirements, UPTC provides all domestic and international
telecommunications services. All the equipment and materials required for
telecommunications facilities are imported.
2.02     As of December 31, 1987, Uganda had an installed capacity of
57,700 telephone exchange lines, 27,900 connected subscriber lines or
direct erchange lines (DELs), and a telephone density of 0.18 DELs per 100
persons. This density is comparable to Sudan (0.2) and Tanzania (0.2) but
considerably lower than Kenya (0.6) and the average for developing
countries in Africa (0.4). The service is heavily concentrated in main
towns (Annex 1). Kampala, with only about 4Z of the population, has 43% of
DELs. Telephone density is 0.65 per 100 persons in Kampala but drops to
0.10 in provincial towns (district headquarters) and to 0.04 in county and
subcounty towns and villages. There are only two public telephone call
offices (Kampala and Jinja). The first public call boxes were instay ed in
Kampala in early 1986. Overall, the majority of Uganda's population does
not have access to telephone service.
2.03     There are about 890 telex subscribers in Kampala, Jinja and five
other towns, 902 of which are in Kampala alone. Telegrams are accepted and
received in the post offices, and transmitted using telex or telephone.
Use and Quality of Service
2.04     In Kampala about 70Z of DELs are connected to business and
government subscribers and 30Z to residential subscribers. Most of the
former are in the communications intensive sectors of the economy, mainly
wholesale and retail trade (22Z), services (19Z), and government
administration (152). A breakdown of telephone subscribers is given in
Annex 2.
2.05     During implementation of the first IDA-financed project, UPTC to
some extent had succeeded in arresting the decline in telephone service in
some areas and managed to restore it in others. However, during the last
disturbances (1985-86), the rehabilitation work was severely disrupted.
Consequently, the quality of service deteriorated and now is extremely
poor, although efforts are being made by UPTC's new management to improve
it. Call completion rates average only 30Z for local service compared to



the 65-752 typical of good local networks. In the Kampala zone, where the
outside plant would be rehabilitated under the proposed project, on average
about 4,000 DELs or 23? of total ins.alled lines are out of service at any
given time, 632 of the faults are due to t1-- local cable networks, and 37Z
to subscriber facilities. Detailed prepara. on of the major rehabilitation
component of the proposed project has shown that damage to the local cable
network and subscr1uer plant during the war was so extensive and their
neglect since then so pervasive that in Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja, over
80? of the facilities are beyond repair and must be replaced. At present
the fault rate is 2.7 per DEL per annum, the highest ever recorded
anywhere, when a reasonable target would be 0.5. By comparison, the long
distance subscriber trunk dialling (STD) service to neighboring Kenya and
Tanzania and to other areas rehabilitated under the first IDA-financed
project is fair. Elsewhere, the service is heavily congested, with
domestic trunk call compietion rates averaging 10-20Z. Waiting time for
telephone calls through operators to many areas in the country,
particularly to the northern regions, is several hours or even days. On
the average it takes about three minutes to get operator response to book
long-distance calls within the country and twice as long to place an
international call. Waiting time between one to three hours is normal for
placing overseas calls. The extremely poor and unreliable service
seriously impedes all economic activities, particularly domestic and
foreign trade.
Existing Facilities
2.06     As of December 1987, there were 21 automatic telephone exchanges
in Uganda. Out of the total of about 27,900 connected subscriber lines
(para. 2.02), 82? were connected to automatic exchanges. These are either
crossbar exchanges, commissioned in the early 1970's and rehabilitated
dur.ng the first project or digital, installed in mid-1985 during the first
project and financed through a French loan. These exchanges are in
relatively good working condition. However, the local cable network
feeding these exchanges, most of which was installed in the 1950's and
1960's, requires extensive rehabilitation (para. 2.05). The poor working
condition of the outside facilities limits the utilization of existing
telephone and telex exchange capacity to only 47Z.
2.07     A microwave system links Kampala, Jinja and Nairobi as a part of
the Pan African Telecommunications (PANAFTEL) network and carries domestic
traffic along the Pan African Highway and international traffic to Kenya
and Tanzania. The domestic trunk network also consists of microwave links
between Kampala and Entebbe, and Kampala, Masaka and Mbarara, and of
VHF/UHF links and overhead lines with carrier equipment in the rest of the
country. Overseas international telecommunications are provided through a
standard INTELSAT earth station located at Mpoma (between Kampala and
Jinja). Eight hundred and ninety telex subscribers (para. 2.03) are
connected to a 30C line crossbar telex exchange and a 720 lines digital
telex exchange in Kampala. Teleprinters, linked to the telex exchanges b;V
VFT systems, provide public telegraph and telex services outside Kampala.
The existing telecommunications facilities are summarized in Annex 4 and
Map IBRD 16688.



-4-
Demand for Service
2.08     As of end of 1987, with about 27,900 DELs, the waiting list for
telephone service totalled about 25,400 registered applicants; indicating
that only 52? of expressed d&.aand was satisfied. In the Kampala zone, with
17,300 DELs and total expressed demand for some 17,900 R.ditional lines,
the satisfaction rate was about 492 (Annex 5). These figures, hcwever,
underestimate the potential demand to the extent that there is a
significant unregistered demand which probably would oilv eamerge when the
public perception of availability of new connections and reliable service
changes. In the absence of reliable information on historical growth in
expressed d-mand, a conservative assumption of 82 growth per annum in
Kampala and IOZ elsewhere has been made during the project period. Based
on this assumption and the magnitude of the Investment Program as discussed
in paras. 3.03 and 3.06, telecommunications services would remain supply-
constrained for the foreseeable future with no improvement in demand
satisfaction (Annex 5). This supply constraint is primarily linked to the
shortage of investment capital.
B. The Sector
Sector Goals
2.09     As a part of its overall reconstruction program the Government
emphasizes rehabilitation of war damaged telecommunications facilities as
well as a modest expansion in high priority areas. These objectives were
supported and partially met under the first IDA Credit (para. 2.12) and
need to be further pursued. In the framework of the proposed project, the
sector goals are to:
(a) develop the sector institution (UPTC) along commercial lines
throuxgh improvement in its management, financial and operating
performance, with emphasis on human resource development and
training;
(b) rehabilitate the telecommunications network and improve quality of
local, long distance and international telecommunications servicE3
with first priority in the areas where lack of reliable service
impedes growth of economic activities; and
(c) enhance revenue generation from assets through improvement in
operating efficiency, elimination of critical bottlenecks and
appropriate tariff levels.
Sector Constraints
2.10     The main constraints to sector development are:
(a) lack of qualified staff at all levels within UPTC;
(b) lack of staff motivation due to low salaries and benefits - the
legacy of war and insecurity and mininal job satisfaction - which



to a considerable extent, are a consequence of the difficult
macro-economic situation in Uganda, non-availability of operating
and maintenance materials and inadequate training;
(c) lack of foreign exchange, which limits procurement of equipment,
spare parts and vehicles for mai..tenance and expansion; and
(d) lack of effective management systems for maintenance, operations
and planning. In particular, the financial, planning, engineering
and personnel management systems are inadequate and have resulted
in a considerable waste of resources in the past.
C. IDA Strategy
Experience with Past Lending
2.11     The World Bank Group has been associated with telecommunications
in the East Africa Community since 1966. In February 1967, the Bank
approved a US$13.0 million loan (483-EA) to East Africa Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC) to help finance a project designed
to expand local and long distance telecommunications facilities. A second
loan (675-EA) for US$10.4 million was approved in May 1970 to assist in
further expansion of telecommunication services. These projects were
satisfactorily completed in 1974 and 1975 respectively. Proceeds of a
third loan of US$32.5 million approved in May 1973 were partially applied
in Uganda. The performance audit report on the first two projects, while
generally positive on the Bank's role, concluded that long delays in
project implementation were caused by inadequate planning and project
management, and procurement problems.1 A proposed fourth project was
aborted at appraisal because EAPTC was replaced in 1977 by three
independent telecommunications corporations in Kenya, Tanzania arnd Uganda.
2.12     For Uganda, the first IDA credit (Credit 1367) of US$20.4 million
equivalent was approved in May 1983 with the planned closing date in June
1987.2 It focussed attention on telecommunications system rehabilitation in
major population and business centers damaged during the 1977178 war and/or
badly maintained since then, with limited expansion to meet urgent needs,
improve postal services and introduce a program of institutional
development. Implementation of the project was generally satisfactory
during the first two years. The UPTC Act ensuring UPTC autonomy was
enacted, a commercial accounting system was introduced, subscribers'
billing and collection functions were computerized and significantly
improved, and rehabilitation of some strategic facilities was implemented.
However, prolonged absence of stable management and leadership resulting
from the resurgence of the civil war seriously eroded UPTC performance and
productivity. UPTC could not meet the financial performance targets under
the credit due mainly to tariffs too inadequate to compensate for the
rampant in'_ation. UPTC has also not complied with the audit covenants and
1/ Operations Evaluation Department report 1893 dated October 21, 1975.
2/ The project was closed ir. December 1987.



not fully implemented its training programs. New subscriber connections
have been slower than anticipated and service quality deteriorated during
and after the internal disturbances in 1985-86 (para. 2.05). The second
proposed project is designed to assist in the resolution of outstanding
institutional issues, as well as improving the low service level which
impedes communications and frustrates economic recovery.
Project Focus
2.13     The proposed project would focus on (i) rehabilitating or
replacing telecommunications network, equipment and plant in the high
priority areas, with some limited expansion to maximize the utilization of
existing assets, and (ii) institutional development of UPTC. Given the
country situation, this project alone cannot be expected to and is not
intended to resolve all present and future communications needs of the
country but should merely be considered as providing a sound basis on which
future development should be possible.  The proposed project would restore
confidence in the sector and thus be catalytic in attracting other sources
of financing for the components of the UPTC investment program not covered
by the project. Institutional development will be focussed at restoring
discipline, accountability and efficiency of UPTC. The proposed project
would provide for periodic tariff adjustments as needed to maintain UPTC's
financial integrity (para. 6.06), foreign exchange for equipment, materials
and services needed for network rehabilitation and its expansion on a
limited scale, and technical assistance, training and equipment needed to
improve performance. Since inadequate financial incentives on a country-
wide basis are a major constraint in effectively dealing with the human
resource problem, this issue, in addition to the proposed project, (para.
4.09), would also be dealt with on a cross-sectoral basis within the
context of the recently approved Public Enterprise Project (Credit 1962-UG)
and the proposed Second Economic Recovery Credit.
III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01     UPTC's 1988/89-1992/93 Investment Program is a continuation of the
1982-87 Recovery and Rehabilitation Program, under which UPTC has made a
start in rehabilitating the sector. During 1982-87 it has (i) increased
the telephone exchange capacity from 37,000 lines to about 57,700, (ii)
installed new digital exchanges in Kampala, Masaka and Mbarara and
rehabilitated the crossbar exchanges in Jinja, Entebbe, Fort Portal and
three other towns, (iii) almost doubled the capacity of telex exchanges
from 520 to 1,020 lines, (iv) established microwave links from Kampala to
Entebbe, Mbarara and Masaka, (v) initiated a limited program to improve its
management and operations, and (vi) rehabilitated and expanded a
substantial number of radio systems in the rural areas, thus improving this
important service in key agricultural regions. Financing for the Kampala
digital exchanges project was provided by a French loan (para. 2.06), for
the microwave links by EEC and UNDP and other investments were funded under
the first IDA credit.



- 7 -
3.02     Several projects included in the 1982-87 Programs were shelved
because of the severe macro-economic situation in the country and limited
UPTC implementation capacity. Some of these projects, with other
investment proposals now form the 1988-1993 Investment Program which can
broadly be described as:
(i)  the proposed IDA-financed project (paras. 3e04 and 3.05);
(ii) extension of the microwave routes to the borders of Tanzania
and Rwanda and reconstruction of some VHF/UHF transmission
links;
(iii) extension of the telephone switching capacity in Entebbe and
Jinja;
(iv)  extension of tele: switching capacity; and
(v) expansion of international telecommunications and
introduction of international subscriber dialing (ISD).
3.03     The proposed program has been put together in the framework of the
country Public Investment Program and reflects the investment limitations
imposed by the present status of Uganda's overall macro-economic situation.
UPTC's original investment program presented to IDA, which included large
development schemes to the North and the West, was three times the size and
cost of the one presented here. This reduced program which has been
discussed and agreed with the Ministry of Planning, meets the sector's high
priority needs and complemeiits priorities in other sectors. The program is
also consistent with the likely resource availabilitys financial
(particularly foreign exchange) as well as human. The program details, its
phasing and estimated annual expenditure are given in Annex 6. During
negotiations, it was agreed that UPTC will consult with IDA on any proposal
for investment estimated to cost more than 1O of the amount established in
the investment program for any one year (para. 7.01 (a)].
The Project
3.04     The proposed project is a self-contained, balanced and integrated
package of high priority components within the overall investment program.
Its major emphasis is on institutional development and rehabilitation of
the economically critical local cable networks and subscriber facilities in
the key centers of Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja to increase the utilization
of existing exchange facilities and to partly meet the current unmet
demand.
3.05     The main components of the project are:
I. Telecommunications Rehabilitation
(a) Rehabilitation of the local cable networks in Kampala, Entebbe and
jinja including supply and installation of about 180,000 pair
kilometers of primary and secondary telephone cables, to replace
about 26,000 MDF pairs in Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja and to expand



- 8 -
the cable network in the three cities by about 10,000 MDF pairs;
installation of about 1,613 pair kilometers of PCM cables and 82
kilometers of 4 cores optical fiber cables, including PCM and
optical fiber transmission systems for the Kampala inter-exchanges
junction network;
(b) Provision of telephone instruments, PBX, teleprinters, facsimile
and data equipment for the rehabilitation of the subscriber
facilities;
(c) Provision of 100 subscriber units of rural radiocall equipment,
operation consoles, and a transmitter to rehabilitate the existing
radio call network;
(d) Provision of cables and associated equipment for the local
networks rehabilitation in provincial towns;
(e) Installation of a computerized subscriber's record system and
provision of microcomputers;
(f) Provision of vehicles and tools; and
(g) 120 person/months of engineering consultants for the design,
preparation of bid documents, bid evaluation and supervision of
the turnkey contract.
II. Institutional Development
(h) 144 person/months of expatriate staff to meet the immediate need
for senior and intermediate managers in the Finance Department;
(i) 24 person/months of long-term technical assistance to strengthen
UPTC's planning, management and operational capacity;
(j) 110 person/months of short-term consultant services to assist UPTC
in implementing its medium-term institutional development
strategy;
(k) On-the-job and formal training, within Uganda and abroad, directly
linked to UPTC's institutional development strategy which
comprises 36 person/months of trainers, 50 fellowships and
provision for travel and subsistence for twinning arrangements;
and
(1) Provision of laboratory equipment and training aids for the
training school.
III. Recurrent Purchases of Spares, Materials and Tools for Maintenance
Three year's consumption of spare parts and material for UPTC maintenance
and operations.



B. Costs and Financing
Program Costs
3.06     The total program costs are estimated at US$97.2 million including
a foreign exchange component of US$88.0 million.  Besides Lhe project
proposed for IDA financing, the program includes the ongoing works (US$13.5
million) financed by AfDB and France and other urgent investments totalling
US$27.3 million for which some interest, particularly by Japan, has been
shown by the donor community. Annual expenditures under UPTC's
telecommunications Investment Program are given in Annex 6. On average,
annual investment expenditures for telecommunications for the next three
years represent about 6Z of the total Uganda Public Investment Program.
This ratio of telecommunications investment to the overall country
investment program is consistent with the ratio experienced in other
developing countries. In addition, UPTC has embarked on expanding the Post
Office Building in Kampala to accommodate its staff currently occupying
rented offices. Total cost of the expansion, which will be financed by
UPTC, is estimated at about US$9.5 million equivalent.
Prolect Costs
3.07     The total cost of the project. is estimated at US$58.8 million 3
with a foreign exchange component of US$52.3 million. Project base costs
reflect UPTC's experience with contracts under the first IDA project and in
other countries in the region adjusted to December 1988 prices. Project
costs are summarized below:
3/ Due to the large divergence between the local and international
inflation the project costs are calculated in U.S. dollars and the price
contingencies for both the local and foreign costs are calculated based on
the expected increases in world prices.



- 10 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(in US$ million)
Item                             Local      Foreign   Total      Z of Total
Kampala-Entebbe-Jinja                  3.4        28.4       31.8        54
Network Rehabilitation
Computerization                         -          0.6        0.6         1
Rural Call Stations                    0.5         1.3        1.8         3
Subscriber Terminal                    0.5         2.0        2.5         4
Equipment
Cable Material                         0.9         1.5        2.4         4
Vehicles                                -          1.8        1.8         3
Engineering Consultants                -           1.7*/      1.7         3
Institutional Development              -           5.8        5.8        10
Total Base Cost                        5.3        43.1       68.4        82
Physical Contingencies             0.3         2.2        2.5         4
Price Contingencies                0.9         4.0        4.9         9
Total In-estment                   6.5        49.3       55.8       95
Recurrent Purchases                    -           3.0        3.0         5
Total Cost                         6.5        52.3       58.8      100
*-| Includes PPF of US$1.0 million disbursed prior to 1988.
Contingencies
3.08     As the final design of the project major component has been
completed, physical contingencies are only 5Z on local and foreign costs.
Price contingencies are based on estimated annual foreign costs and local
costs expressed in dollars increasing by 3.OZ p.a. from 1989 to 1990 and
4.OZ thereafter.



- 11 -
Project Financing
3.09     The IDA credit would finance 100? of the foreign costs (US$52.3
million) and UPTC would provide funds for 1OOZ of the local costs (US$6.5
million) from internally generated resources.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ Million)
Local               Foreign           Total          Z of total
IDA          -                    52.3            52.3              89
UPTC         6.5                   -                6.5             11
Total        6.5                  52.3             58.8            100
Because of the urgency of network rehabilitation, no effort has been made
to arrange cofinancing for the project; however, IDA's involvement in the
sector through the project is likely to attract other donors for the
remainder of the investment program. UPTC will be the beneficiary of the
entire IDA credit. The Government will onlend to UPTC the proceeds of the
credit to be used for financing telecommunications equipment, plant and
associated services (US$45.7 million) at annual rate of 8? to be repaid
over a period of 15 years, including four years of grace, with UPTC bearing
the foreign exchange risk. The remainder of credit funds (Us$6.6 million)
would be transferred by the Government to UPTC as equity contribution
(para. 7.01 (b)]. Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.02 (a)].



J;L. -
C. Procurement and Implementation
Procurement
3.10        Procurement  arrangements  are  summarized in Table  3.3.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent) a/
Project Component                   ICB           Neg            LIB E/        Other J            Total.
Contr.b/
1.  Network Rehabilitation   38.6 ([2.4)   -             -      -      -        -       -    38.8  (32.4)
2.  Computerization              -     -       -         -      0.7   (0.7)    -        -      0.7   (0.7)
3.  Rural Call Stations          1.6  (1. )   -          -      -      -        -       -      1.6   (1. 5)
4.  Subscribers Torminal         2.1  (2.1)   -          -      0.2   (0.2)    -        -      2.3   (2.3)
Equipment
6.  Cable Material               1.7  (1.7)   -          -      -      -        -       -      1.7   (1.7)
S.  Vehicles                     2.1  (2.1)   -          -      -       -       -       -      2.1   (2.1)
7.  Engineering Consultants   -        -       -         -      -      -        2.0   (2.0)  2.0   (2.0)
8.  Institutional Development -        -       -         -      0.2   (0.2)    6.4   (6.4)  8.8   (8.8)
9.  Recurrent Purchases          1.0  (1.0)   2.0       (2.0)  )-               .-      -      3.0   (3.0)
Total                  46.0 (40.8)   2.0       (2.0)  1.1   (1.1)    8.4   (8.4) 656.  (62.3)e/
Percent                79.8%          3.6X      -      2.0%   -       14.9%  -    100%
Note:
f/ Costs include proportionate contingancy provisions, excluding UPTC work
force and force account.
6/ Negotiated contracts.
sl Limited International Bidding.
Other includes Bank's Cuidelines for tho use of consultants.
o/ IDA financing in parenthesis



- 13 -
3.11     The procurement procedures are consistent with IDA guidelines.
The wsupply and erect" contract for the reha1ilitation of the local cable
networks (US$36.6 million including local expenditures and contingencies)
will be awarded and the equipment for subscriber facilities (telephone
instruments, dropwire and accessories US$4.8 million) will be procured
under ICB following IDA guidelines. Supply of spare parts for switching
and transmission (US$2.0 million) which are proprietary in character and
obtainable only from specified manufacturers will be procured through
negotiated contracts, subject to IDA approval to ensure that the prices
obtained are comparable to world market prices for similar equipment.
Tools, mini computers and miscellaneous materials that cannot be grouped to
form packages of more than US$100,000 equivalent, (US$1.1 million), will be
procured through limited international tendering (LIB). Nippon
Telecommunications Consultants (NTC) have been selected as engineering
consultants. Consultants and technical assistance personnel for the
implementation of Institutional Development Program will be selected in
accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The training
disciplines and fellowship assignments for UPTC staff will be selected by
UPTC in consultation with IDA. All IDA-financed contracts over US$100,000
will be subject to IDA's prior review. These will cover about 95Z of the
total value of all contracts under the project. Other contracts in
packages of less than US$100,000 will be subject to selective post-award
IDA review.
Disbursements
3.12     Except for payment against contracts of less than US$100,000
equivalent, which will be disbursed against statements of expenditure, the
IDA credit of US$52.3 million would be disbursed against full standard
documentation for 10OZ of foreign expenditures for the turnkey contract,
technical assistance and training, and 1002 of foreign expenditures or 80S
of local expenditures for supply of telecommunications equipment, spares,
tools, vehicles and miscellaneous equipment. To facilitate rapid
disbursements, a Special Account of approximately US$2.0 million will be
established in U.S. dollars in a commercial bank through the Bank of Uganda
and maintained on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The US$2.0
million special account represents about four months of estimated
disbursements during the peak disbursement period of 1992. The Special
Account would be used for disbursements against all expenditures.
Application for replenishment will be submitted on a monthly basis promptly
after reconciliation of the monthly bank statement.



- 14 -
Table 3.4 Disbursement of IDA ^.redit
Category               Amount $ Million       Percentage Financed
1.   Local network               32.4               100Z of foreign
.turnkey contract)                            expenditures
2.   Telecommunications          11.3               10OZ of foreign
equipment, spares,                            expenditures, 802 of
tools, vehicles and                           local expenditures
recurrent purchases
3.   Consultants and Training    7.1                1002 of foreign
expenditures
4.   PPF refinancing               1.5
52.3
3.13     The disbursement schedule for the project is given in Annex 7.
Under the standard disbursement profile for IDA telecommunications
projects, the credit closing date would be June 30, 1996. However, a
better than standard performance is expected because (a) advanced
procurement for US$36.6 million will be a condition of credit effectiveness
(paras. 3.16 and 7.02), (b) use of a "supply and erect" contract for the
major project component, (c) requirement under the project that most of the
technical assistance be in place at the beginning of project
implementation, and (d) IDA's good experience under the first project with
UPTC with regard to procurement and disbursements. Due to the advanced
state of procurement and other reasons mentioned above, disbursements for
this credit are expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
Project Implementation
3.14     The project will be implemented by UPTC, assisted by consultants
and contractors. The basic design and preparation of bidding documents for
the local network rehabilitation have been prepared by NTC, engineering
consultants, who were selected and financed under an initial PPF (paras.
3.07 and 3.11). The same consultants have assisted UPTC in bid evaluation
and also will assist UPTC in supervising and commissioning this major
project component. Terms of reference of the engineering consultants are
given in Annex 8. The UPTC staff will install the subscriber plant, radio
call equipment and rehabilitate the outside plant in some provincial towns.
The use of a "supply and erect" contractor for the major physical



- 15 -
rehabilitation component [para. 3.05 I (a)] is both necessary and
appropriate because of the size, complexity and urgency of the works and
the lack of current managerial and technical capacity within the UPTC to
undertake the major rehabilitation work proposed; including the lack of
UPTC engineers and technicians trained in erection of outside plant.
3.15     An important feature of the project is the opportunity provided by
the local networks contractor's assumption of responsibility for physical
rehabilitation works to focus attention and energy on the parallel
development of UPTC's institutional capacity. That program is described in
Chapter IV (paras. 4.15 - 4.23). Although the local networks contractor
will be required to utilize UPTC staff and, thus, contribute to the
development of UPTC's capacity for operating and maintaining the
rehabilitated networks, primary responsibility for assisting UPTC to
develop its institutional capability will be assigned to UPTC management
assisted by consultants other than the engineering consultants who will be
directly involved in the supervision of this major contract. This approach
would be used to ensure that the institution-building program is not de-
emphasized in the face of pressures to complete physical rehabilitation.
3.16     Given the above arrangements and the technical assistance built
therein for a major part of the project, UPTC's current management and
manpower (para. 4.08) are adequate to implement the project. A qualified
UPTC senior staff member has been designated as Project Coordinator. His
duties include day-to-day follow-up of project preparation and
implementation within UPTC and liaison with consultants and contractors.
The tender documents for the supply and installation of local cable
networks have been cleared by IDA and bids were invited in May 1988, and
are being evaluated. The award of the contract for the network
rehabilitation will be a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 7.02
(b)]. The implementation schedule for major project components is in Annex
9. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.13).
Performance Monitoring
3.17     UPTC's overall performance during the project implementation
period (1989-1993) will be monitored against performance indicators (Annex
10). This program contains the standard technical and financial
performance indicators and the targets for investments, subscriber
connections, staffing, institutional improvements, and procurement.
Monitoring of these indicators will assist UPTC in upgrading its management
systems and will allow timely corrective actions to be taken. During
negotiations, targets for 1989 and 1990 were agreed upon as representing
desirable and feasible levels; the targets for later years are indicative
and will be reviewed and established jointly by IDA and UPTC by September
30 of the preceeding year [para. 7.01 (c)].
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
A. Origin, Objectives and Role
4.01     The UPTC, which under the direction of its Board of Directors will
have overall responsibility for project management, became operational on
December 1, 1984 and, effective the same day, replaced the former caretaker



- 16 -
corporation established in '977. The broad objectives and functions of
UPTC are to provide postal and telecommunications services within Uganda,
between Uganda and the rest of the world, and to regulate and control radio
communications operated from and received in Uganda. The Corporation also
manages and controls, on behalf of the Government of Uganda, a Savings
Bank. In the conduct of its affairs, the UPTC is required, by its Act, to
operate on sound commercial principles and generate sufficient revenue to
meet its expenditures and make a reasonable profit.
B. Organization and Management
Board of Directors
4.02     UPTC is managed by its Board of Directors through the Managing
Director in accordance with the UPTC Act. The number of Directors at any
time cannot be less than eight nor more than ten, including the Chairman
and the Managing Director. All Board members are appointed for a three-
year period by the Minister of Transport and Communications, who is
responsible for general guidance and control of UPTC. There are currently
nine Directors including the Chairman, the Managing Director and seven
other members, who were appointed at various times; some members have
served since the inception of the former caretaker organization in 1977.
The present Board represents a balanced representation of technical,
financial and legal expertise. Three members are from the private sector:
a lawyer (the Chairman), an accountant, and a telecommunications engineer.
Management and Organizational Structure
4.03     The Managing Director is the Chief Executive of UPTC.  He is
nominated by the President of Uganda and his appointment is ratified by the
Board. Below the Managing Director there are nine director level positions
responsible for specified functions distributed among the same number of
major departments. These departments are: (i) Postal, (ii) Savings Bank,
(iii) Personnel and Training, (iv) Finance, (v) Corporate Services, (vi)
Corporate Planning, Marketing, and Information Systems, (vii) Engineering
Planning and Construction, Cviii) Corporation Secretariat, and (ix)
Telecommunications Operations and Maintenance. Of these, the first two
departments are responsible for functions without direct impact on the
Corporation's telecommunications operations, the last department is
exclusively concerned with telecommunications operations, and the six
remaining Departments service all three of the major functions of the
Corporation: postal, savings, and telecommunications. UPTC's organization
chart and summary descriptions of each department, are given in Annex 11.
4.04    The present organizational structure is to some extent based on the
report submitted by two experts from British Telecoms in 1907. The report
focussed primarily on organizational structure issues and job descriptions
for senior planning and management staff. After incorporating several
modifications recommended by UPTC management, the Board of Directors
approved the consultant's recommendations. The process of reorganization
has started. The newly adopted organization and management structure
represents a vast improvement over the previous organization and would
adequately meet the corporation's immediate and medium-term requirements.



- 17 -
The major problem affecting UPTC op2rations at present is its inability to
attract qualified staff. This issue to a large extent is a reflection of
the broader country-wide human resource problem as discussed in paras. 4.08
to 4.10.
4.05     The Managing Director is both the Chief Executive Officer and the
Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation   At present he directly
supervises nine department directors and four other senior level staff
i.e., Chief Internal Auditor, Executive Assistant, Principal Public
Relations Officer and Senior Internal Relations Officer. Considering the
extent of work being performed by the Managing Director, UPTC will conduct
a review of its organizational structure and develop proposals aimed at
reducing the workload of the Managing Director. During negotiations it was
agreed that such proposals will be reviewed with IDA and implemented by
December 31, 1989 [para 7.01 (d)].
C.    Operating Policies and Procedures
Policy Statement
4.06     To supplement the institutional objectives and roles outlined in
its enabling legislation, UPTC has adopted a Policy Statement to serve as a
guide to its operations (Annex 12). The Statement of Policy elaborates and
builds on the key features of the UPTC Act, which provides a suitable
framework for an administratively independent, financially responsible and
commercially oriented institution with adequate authority and flexibility
in managing its affairs, including determination of tariffs and
compensation for employees. It provides a sound basis for UPTC's current
operations and future development, reflecting sound operating policies and
procedures, and a balanced approach to its development and growth.
Adherence to this policy would be in the long-term interest of both the
institution and its clients. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
this policy would not be changed without consultation with IDA [para. 7.01
(e)].
Operating Procedures
4.07     In order to realize its overall corporate objectives, UPTC would
need to modify existing procedures and practices and develop new procedures
where necessary to conform to its new organizational structure and Policy
Statement. In the context of its institutional development strategy (para.
4.15 and 4.22 and Annex 13), assistance would be provided under the project
to enable UPTC to develop and improve its systems and procedures and, where
needed, to prepare comprehensive Operations Manuals [para. 4.22 (d)].
D. Institutional Issues
Staff and Training
4.08     As of December 31, 1987, UPTC had about 2,140 staff with about
1,820 staff employed for telecommunications, or about 63 staff per 1,000
DELs (Annex 15), which is comparable to the staffing levels in the other
East African countries (Ethiopia 66, Tanzania 68). This staff ratio
however, does not reveal that UPTC suffers from a lack of skilled managers



and quali.tid technicians and accountants. Also, only 1,453 or 682 of
approved positions of UPTC's new organizational structure are currently
filled; The remaining 687 persons (321 of currently employed staff) are
employed in redundant positions carried over from the previous organization
structure. Up to now, no assessment has been made to determiiLe if all the
employees are suitable for training and continued employment in UPTC.
4.09     While a number of UPTC's senior staff have received a high level
of education in Uganda and abroad and have proven capable of operating
modern sophisticated equipment, th^ performance of most mid and lower-level
staff has been poor due to a lack of motivation resulting from low
salaries, difficult country situation and poor working conditions. In many
respects, the UPTC situation reflects the countrywide problem of inability
to attract qualified staff and of poorly trained staff, ill-equipped to
handle their functions effectively. In order to improve staff motivation,
UPTC is ready to and would review annually its remuneration package to
ensure its competitiveness with the general salary structure in the private
sector and in other parastatals in Uganda - such as Uganda Electricity
Board, Uganda Railways - with which it competes for recruitment of
technical staff and, if necessary, make appropriate adjustments. UPTC
would also design and establish with the assistance of consultants an
appropriate incentive system by June 30, 1989 ((Annex 13 para. 3 (g)].
Assurances from UPTC and the Government to this effect were obtained during
negotiations [para. 7.01 (f)].
4.10     At the present level UPTC may be overstaffed but distribution of
experience and qualifications of its staff, in many cases, does not
correspond to its requirements. Therefore, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that an initial review of the staffing requirements and the
determination of both staffing gaps and redundancies would be comspleted by
December 31, 1989. UPTC has agreed and during negotiations the
Government's agreement was also obtained that until the results of the
staffing assessment are made available, with the exception of filling some
critical vacant positions, a hiring freeze for mid and low-level staff will
be instituted. UPTC has agreed to retain consultants for this purpose and
review their recommendations with IDA (para. 7.01 (g)]. To assist UPTC in
the conduct of the staffing study, the project would finance three person-
months of consultant services.
4.11     For several years there was no formal training of new staff or
refresher courses for existing personnel. Limited technical training is
presently given in the new training center completed under the first IDA
financed project. Technical training needs to be expanded and training in
other areas such as: (i) planning and management; (ii) accounting and
financial control functions; (iii) operations maintenance; and (iv)
engineering management, project planning, design, and implementation needs
to be introduced. Therefore, in conjunction with the staffing assessment
(para. 4.10), staff training needs would be identified and a detailed
training program would be prepared for the entire organization by December
31, 1989 [para. 7.01 (h)]. The training program will emphasize: (i) on-
the-job training through working with consultants; (ii) the offering of
courses in Uganda organized and conducted by foreign and local trainers and
professors; and (iii) establishment of an effective twinning arrangement
for in-service training and exchange of professional knowledge and



- 19 -
&:!perLenca.  Scn'e teL:antCe wculd be placea on formal trZLnLng abroad for
staff in key technical areas. An estimated 24 UPTC staff (96
person/months) would participate directly in the in-service twinning
program (Annex 16), although others would also benefit from working with
the exchange staff from the 'sister" institution; 50 staff would receive
fellowships for foreign training ranging in dura.tion from 3-12 months (480
person/months); and 960 staff would benefit from short courses offered in
Uganda (960 person/months). UPTC has contacted the postal and
telecommurications authorities of the Republic of Ireland and would invite
proposals from other similar organizations and there are good prospects for
finalizing a satisfactory twinning arrangement. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that a satisfactory twinning arrangement along the
lines described in Annex 16 would be in place by September 30, 1989 [para.
7.01 (i)].
Billing and Collection
4.12     UPTC bills its telephone subscribers monthly through a
computerized billing system. Computer installation problems resulted in a
backlog of nine months in 1985 but as of now the system is running
satisfactorily, the backlog has been significantly reduced and bills are
now issued within 45 days. Further improvement is required to issue the
bills within 15 days and will be achieved through provision cf technical
assistance under the project (para. 4.22). Telex billing is still manual
and is one to two months late. At negotiations assurances were obtained
that from June 30, 1989 bills for telephone and telex services will be
issued within 15 days (para. 7.01 (j)].
4.13     As of June 30, 1988 UPTC accounts receivable, other than from
foreign telephone companies, are estimated at about US$29.9 million or
equal to 392 days sales revenue for the 1987/88 financial year. Both the
Government and UPTC have, therefore, agreed that urgent action would be
taken to accelerate the process of reduction. The Government, on its part,
has agreed that all its ministries and parastatal bodies would pay in full
all arrears for telecommunications services by June 30, 1990 and
thereafter, all charges incurred by its ministries and parastatal bodies
would be paid to UPTC within 30 days of the billing date. UPTC is also in
the process of strengthening its billing and collection procedures to
reduce its receivables from the private sector. Prior to negotiations
Government and UPTC prepared an outline plan of action to reduce accounts
receivable to no.more than 90 days of sales by June 30, 1990 and maintain
them during project implementation period at levels shown in the
performance indicators (Annex 10). The outline action plan specifically
reflects the Government's agreement to deal urgently with overdue payments
in respect of services provided to the Government and Parastatals. The
action plan was agreed at negotiations [para. 7.01 (k)].
Accounting and Auditing
4.14     The appraisal team encountered extreme difficulty in collecting
accurate and reliable actual and forecast financial information. Since
then UPTC, with the help of external auditors, has updated its accounts in



- 20 -
as much as that audited accounts through FY874 have been provided and draft
accounts for FY88 have been prepared. A set of revised financial
projections through FY93 has also been made available. The latest figures
in the draft accounts and projections are grossly inconsistent with
revenues and expenditures of telephone entities elsewhere in developing
world 'nd thus have been revised to reflect a realisdic scenario. The
Government's Auditor General has selected a private firm as UPTC's external
auditors. The external auditors have ideniified several weaknesses in
UPTC's accounting and internal control systems. This is not surprising
considering that until recently there was virtually nobody adequately
qualified working in the accounting and internal audit departments. The
proposed technical assistance in the accounting and finance areas under the
project (para. 4.20) would enable strengthening of the accounting
department and reassignment to their regular positions of some audit
personnel who were taken away from their regular jobs to act in various
accounting functions. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the Government's Auditor General would continue to appoint independent
auditors to audit UPTC accounts and that beginning with FY89 audited
accounts together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of the fiscal year and the auditors would be
requested to submit reports to IDA certifying that the documents and
procedures supporting the statements of expenditures are in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the credit [para. 7.01 (1)].
Institutional Development
4.15     Improvement in the quality of service and the efficient
utilization of both the existing and projected physical facilities will not
result from major investment alone; strengthening of UPTC's overall
institutional capability is also crucial to improved performance.
Fundamental organizational and managerial deficiencies have been
identified: (i) technical skill deficiencies among executive, technical,
financial, and administrative support staff; (ii) inadequate availability
of qualified middle managers and supervisory personnel (especially at
levels below Head of Department); (iii) lack of qualified and skilled
personnel available for employment within UPTC as well as in Uganda due
mainly to grossly inadequate financial incentives;5 (iv) inadequate
financial and material resources; (v) absence of medium and long-term
corporate planning and any system linking corporate planning, budgetting,
and management information; (vi) lack of established and systematic
procedures for coordination and information sharing among and between
departments and between divisions in departments; (vii) low staff morale
and discipline; (viii) low awareness of the business objectives of the
institution, especially among the lower-level staff; (ix) ineffective
procurement, stock control/inventory management and internal supply; and
(x) an insufficient commercial orientation and lack of procedures directed
toward enhanced customer service.   UPTC's management is committed to
4/ Effective 1987 UPTC's accounting year was changed from December 31 to
June 30.
51 UPTC's compensation package compares favorably with most parastatals but
is grossly inadequate in absolute terms as well as in comparison with
organizations such as the Uganda Commercial Bank and the private sector.



- 21 -
improving UPTC's performance and is expected to prepare an institutional
development policy program (Annex 13), including an action-plan for
implementation.   The program would, amongst other things, reemphasize
commercialization of UPTC operations and its financial and administrative
autonomy as envisaged in the enabling legislation and reflected in UPTC's
Policy Statement. Given the present human resource constraints, however,
it is unrealistic to expect UPTC to put together a meaningful program on
its own. To assist UPTC in this task a second PPF has been provided.
During negotiations it was agreed that submission of a comprehensive
institutional development program satisfactory to IDA would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (para. 7.02 (c)l.
Oorporate Planning
4.16     UPTC will, for several years, be operating in a situation in which
its needs will substantially exceed financial, managerial, and staffing
resources. In order to avoid inefficient utilization of effort and
resources through ad-hoc decision making, an Annual Corporate Plan
establishing medium-term five-year business objectives and financial
projections as well as annual budget will be prepared and updated on a
yearly basis. The Annual Corporate Plan would specifically reflect the
objectives of UPTC as set out in its Statement of Policy adopted by the
Board of Directors (para 4.06). The plan will be based on estimated (i)
customer demand by type of service required; (ii) distribution of demand
among categories of potential customers and their locations; (iii)
financial, human and fixed physical resources available to UPTC; (iv)
proposed capital expenditure on rehabilitation and/or improvement of
existing infrastructure and new facilities; and (v) manpower development
and training programs. Based on these estimates the plan would establish:
(i) priorities among clients by type and/or geographical locations; (ii)
aggregate investment targets linked to those priorities; (iii) sources of
funds (internally generated cash, government contribution and loan
capital); (iv) non-financial resource requirements (e.g. personnel by
number and their distribution among various functions, facilities, and
equipment); and (v) assignment of responFibilities to specified departments
and units within the organization. The Annual Corporate Plan would also
include a discussion of assumptions used and strategies built into the
operating and investment programs and amalgamation of yearly plans into
five-year projections, and critique performance in key areas such as
customer service, bill collection, write-offs, administrative costs,
staffing, performance evaluations, manpower development, and training
activities.
4.17     To give practical effect to the corporate five-year and annual
plans, they will need to be disaggregated into annual departmental and sub-
departmental work plans. Each department, work unit and field office
within UPTC would be directly responsible for preparing their own specific
work plans according to guidelines issued by the Department of Corporate
Planning and Management Information Systems.
4.18     The Department of Corporate Planning and Management Information
Systems would have specific responsibility for developing UPTC's Annual
Corporate Plan and Financial Objectives as a framework for preparation and
updating of five-year projections. N,evertheless, the planning process



- 22 -
would require inputs from UPTC managers at all levels. In order to ensure
effective and timely participation in the process, the Department of
Corporate Planning and Management Information Systems would develop a
"planning cycle". Detailed instructions and guidelines would be issued
explaining the corporate objectives, outlining the kind of information
required and its format, designating responsibility for its preparation and
timing for submission. These instructions would also set out a process for
reviewing the performance of income and cost control at appropriate levels
within UPTC. To assist the Corporation in the design and implementation
of a new corporate planning system, the project would finance approximately
six person/months of short-term consulting services (para. 4.23).
Management Information System
4.19     The various Management Teams within the UPTC will require timely
information regarding their performance and the repercussions of their
performance on the operational and financial performance of other units
within the institution. The provision of such information will be well
targetted to specific managers so as not to overwhelm the system nor the
managers themselves. A comprehensive management information system (MIS)
which integrates such information would therefore be established within
UPTC. Although the HIS has not yet been designed in detail, its key
features and clients are indicated in Annex 13. The project would finance
a total of 15 person months of short-term consultant services (para. 4.23)
to assist the Corporation to assess its specific management information
needs, design an overall system and computer software, train staff,
evaluate and review the first phase operation of the new system and
redesign the software, as necessary.
Financial Planning and Management
4.20     UPTC intends to staff the management positions from among the pool
of suitably experienced persons in Uganda. Senior managers have already
been selected to head technical and other line functions. However, the
majority of financial and accounting management positions are vacant, and
because the available pool of such persons is very limited in Uganda,
meeting the immediate need for senior and some intermediate managers from
either within the organization or through local recruitment could prove
extremely difficult in the short and medium-term. As the positions of
Finance Director, Chief Accountant, Financial and Expenditure Accountant,
Management Accountant and Systems and Procedures cum Data Processing
Manager are crucial to efficient business operations, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that these positions would be filled by June 30,
1989 and would remain filled throughout the life of the project with
qualified and experienced staff. In view of the shortage of qualified
financial staff in Uganda, funds are provided under the project to cover
the cost of 144 person-months (para. 3.05) of expatriate staff. In the
event that any of the above positions are financed out of the proceeds of
the credit, the terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to
IDA (para. 7.01 (m)]. Pending the filling of the key positions in the
Finance and Accounting Department, UPTC urgently needs short-term technical
assistance to review and suggest appropriate modifications to its existing
financial, accounting, planning and control systems and procedures and
management information systems to enable provision of reliable financial



- 23 -
informatiLn in a current basis. During negotiations, it was agreed that
appointment of outside consultants and recruitment of a Financial and
Expenditure Accountant and a Management Accountant under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of effectiveness (para. 7.02 (d)].
An amended second PPF request for this purpose and recruitment of short-
term consultants to assist UPTC in institutional development program (para.
4.15) has been approved. Since the cost of expatriate staff is several
times the cost of local recruits, UPTC would ensure that the TORs of short-
term consultants and long-term technical assistance personnel will include
specific programs for training suitable Ugandan replacements, to avoid
retention of expatriate staff longer than absolutely necessary.
Post Office Savings Bank
4.21     The Uganda Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) was established in
1935. In 1937, under the Savings Bank Act, the Managing Director of UPTC
was entrusted with the management and control of the Savings Bank on behalf
of the Government. POSB operates through a network of 120 Post Offices and
Sub-Post Offices and Agencies and thus is well placed vis-&-vis other
financial intermediaries to mobilize savings and provide basic financial
services on a country-wide basis. This advantage, however, is not
reflected in the volume of business handled by POSB. In 1987, 340,000
saving accounts with about U Sh 19 million were maintained with POSB. In
consequence, the Savings Bank had a large number of very small accounts:
the average balance was U Sh 55. The main reason for POSB's poor
performance appears to be a much lower interest rate, which it is allowed
to offer by law. Compared with 18 to 22 per cent given by the commercial
banks, interest on POSB deposits is only 8 per cent.  There is, however, a
proposal under consideration for increasing the interest rate to 12
percent.   Other factors contributing to POSB's poor results are: limited
number of withdrawals (only one per week); and no credit facilities to its
customers. POSB's main source of income is through its mandatory
investment of half of its surplus funds in Government securities. However,
despite the legal requirement, often the Government has refused to accept
these funds, resulting in considerable loss of income to POSB. These
problems have been compounded by a severe lack of commercial approach by
POSB to its business and failure to attract large depositors. POSB is also
lacking in qualified staff and support facilities.
4.22     Assessment of POSB's financial performance is impossible, since it
was in 1977 that.its financial statements were last prepared. However, it
can be safely assumed that with limited income and large overheads POSB has
not operated on a financially viable basis. Under the project, technical
assistance of up to six person-months would be provided to address the
problems and difficulties facing POSB and propose measures which would
equip POSB to operate as a commercially oriented financial institution.
Technical Assistance for Institutional Development
4.23     With reference to assistance for the implementation of UPTC's
institutional development strategy, 144 person months of long-term



- 74 -
technical assistance would be provided to staff critical positions in
UPTC's Finance Department,6 24 person-months to assist the UPTC to improve
billing and collection, and an additional 110 person months of short-term
consultant services would be provided to:
(a) review and redesign of a new corporate planning system (6
person/months);
(b) prepare planning guidelines (7 person/months);
(c) design and conduct annual action-planning workshops and train
local trainers/facilitators (32 person/months);
(d) design systems and coach middle managers in appropriate staff
and materials management techniques and prepare operations
manuals (12 person/months);
(e) provide direct consultant servJces to the various management
teams within UPTC on a recurrent, but non-residential, basis
(person/months);
(f) assess UPTC's management information needs (3 person/months);
(g) design a management information system - MIS (3 person/
months);
(h) design appropriate computer software for the MIS, train staff
in its use, and evaluate, review, and redesign software
followl.g initial operations (10 person/months);
'i) assist UPTC in the conduct of a staffing study (3 person/
months);
(j) conduct a training needs assessment (4 person/months);
(k) design a comprehensive training program (6 person/months);
(1) identify and describe career paths for key occupational
specialities (12 person/months); and
(m) design of an appropriate incentive package and system for the
management of it (6 person/months).
Broad terms of references for the above consultancy services will be
prepared and reflected in Annex 14. These were reviewed and agreed during
negotiations.
6/ A part of the funds provided would be utilized to finance short-term
consultants to update UPTC accounts (para 4.20).



- 25 -
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Financial Performance
5.01     As indicated in Annexes 17 to 19 prior to 1986 the financial
performance of UPTC was not satisfactory. In 1985, UPTC incurred an
operating loss of about U Sh 2.63 billion, equal to about US$1.88
million.a/ In October 1986 UPTC was allowed a massive tariff increase,
followed by another significant tariff adjustment in May 1987. As a
result, during the last two years UPTC's operations, excluding an exchange
loss equivalent to US$41.82 million in 1987, have been reasonably
profitable as indicated below. In 1986 and 1987 UPTC's self-generated
funds were 55? and 29Z respectively of the capital investment requirements.
UPTC tariffs prior to the adjustments made after the latest devaluation of
Uganda Shilling are given in Annex 21).
1985       1986       1987 b/
(US$ millions) C/
Operating Revenues                      2.23       17.67      14.70
Operating Costs                        (4.11)    (11.80)      (8.19)
Operating Profit/(Loss)                (1.88)       5.87       6.51
Interest                               (1.53)      (1.78)     (0.06)
Exchange loss                          (5.04)       -        (41.82)
Net Income                           (8.45)       4.09     (35.37)
Operating Ratio                          184         67         56
Rate of Return on Book Value (Z)        -          76.4       50.0
Current Ratio (times)                   0.75        1.81       0.89
Debt/Equity Ratio                       -          90/10      70/30
Debt Service Coverage (times)           -           5.2       88.8
a/       At the exchange rate of U Sh 1,400 = US$1
b/       Results for six months of 1987.
c/       At the exchange rate of U Sh 60 = US$1



- 26 -
A summary of UPTC balance sheet as at June 30, 1987 is given below:
(US$ millions)    Percent
Net Fixed Assets                                  45.43         28
Work in Progress                                   0.67           1
Current Assets                                  115.21           71
TOTAL ASSETS                                    161.31         100
Government Contribution                            0.47           -
Reserves and Retained Earnings                     8.92           6
Long Term Debt                                    22.20         14
Current Liabilities                             129.72          80
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               161.31         100
Nearly 98Z of the current assets are represented by accounts receivable
(US$112.61 million). The problem of accounts receivable stems from large
amounts due by foreign telephone companies to whom UPTC owes equally large
or greater amounts and also from errors in processing the bills and in
meter reading, the latter not having been carried out on a regular basis.
In addition, the Government departments and parastatals have been chronic
defaulters. Steps would be taken under the project to reduce the overdue
accounts to an acceptable level; 90 days of sales (para. 4.13).



- 27 -
Future Financial Performance
5.02     UPTC forecast financial statements for 1988-1993 are given in
Annexes 17 through Annex 19 and are summarized below:
FY ending June 30      1988a/   1989      1990      1991     1992      1993
(US$ millions)
Operating Revenue      27.82      24.76    27.60    33.10    38.89    44.66
Operating Expenses    10.65       14.23    16.29    20.86    24.38    27.50
Operating Income       17.17      10.53    11.31    12.24    14.51    17.16
Interest                2.36       2.97     4.16      5.76     7.41      8.80
Income Tax               -          -        -        0.41     4.26      5.01
Net Income             14.81       7.56     7.15      6.07     2.84      3.35
Operating Ratio           38         61       59        63        63       62
Rate of Return (Z)bM   27.0        13.2     13.3      11.6     11.6      12.4
Current Ratio (times)  0.98        0.99     0.96      1.13     1.62      3.54
Debt Equity Ratio      33/67      37/63    44/56    49/51    54/46    56/44
Debt Service Coverage   8.3         3.8      2.0       2.3      1.8       1.9
Net Internal Cash
Generation as a
percentage of new
Investments             44         60       37        56       48        77
Note: Assumptions used in Financial Projections are given in Annex 20.
a/   Since the data for 1988 is tentative it is grouped together with
forecast statements.
b/   UPTC's assets were revalued in 1987.  Since then UPTC has not acquired
assets of significant value. The current book value thus reflects the
market value cf assets in operation.
UPTC's financial performance over the project period is satisfactory and
will enable UPTC to meet the agreed performance indicators (See Annex 10).
During negotiations, agreement was reached with both Government and UPTC
that UPTC's tariffs will be adjusted so that net cash flow in any one year
will meet or exceed the local funds requirement of the agreed investment
program in the following year and that the rate of return on its net
revalued assets would not be less than 121 (para 7.01 (n)]. UPTC's
financial projections are based on the assumption that adequate adjustments
in its tariffs would be allowed to enable the Corporation to maintain its
revenue constant in dollar terms. All of the future increases in UPTC's
revenues are assumed to come from increased business activity e.g., project
and other investments.



- 28 -
Financial Arrangements
5.03     Following is the summary of the UPTC's financing plan for 1988-93:
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Amount           Percent
Sources
Net Income Before Interest               73.24              33
Depreciation                             30.86              14
Internal Cash Generation                104.10              47
Government Contribution                  29.56              13
Borrowing                                90.36              40
Total Sources                       224.02             100
Applications
Proposed Project                         49.30              22
Other Investments                        94.88              42
Total Investment Program                144.18              64
Debt Service                             41.69              19
Increase/(Decrease) in Working
Capital                                38.15              17
Total Applications                  224.02             100
UPTC's net internal cash generation (after debt service) would be equal to
about 431 of total investment program over the 1988-93 period. The average
debt service coverage over the same period is projected to be 2.5 times.
UPTC's projected rate of return on net revalued fixed telecommunications
assets in operation would be at least 12 percent. This is mainly due to
nearly doubling of the net average working telephone lines during the
program period and to an increased utilization of the services. The
Projected Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1988 is given below:
US$ millions           Percent
Net fixed Assets                         81.83              39
Work in progress                          0.67               0
Current Assets                          127.54              61
Total Assets                          210.04             100
Government Contributions                 30.03              14
Reserves and Retained Earnings           23.73              11
Long Term Debt                           26.56              13
Current Liabilities                     129.72              62
Total Liabilities                     210.04             100



- 29 -
About 94? of the current assets are represented by accounts receivable
(US$119.33 million). However, about 772 of total receivables represent
amounts due from foreign telephone companies. Conversely, nearly 1002 of
the creditors (US$129.72 million) are represented by accounts payable by
UPTC to foreign telephone companies. Government contributions consist
mainly of assets directly paid for by the Government transferred to UPTC in
1987 (ElO B Exchange, Fourth Satellite Station, Microwave/TV channel and a
telex exchange). Long-term debt includes IDA Credit 1367-UG (US$22
million) and french protocol (US$4.36 million). Reserves and retained
earnings include approximately US$36 million of assets revaluation reserve.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Benefits
6.01     Benefits from the proposed project will reach most sectors of
Uganda's economy and will be felt throughout private business and
Government. A direct benefit would be the increased efficiency and
productivity of UPTC's activities, achieved through institutional
development, which should increase resource transfer to the Government.
6.02     For business, improved telecommunications will enhance management
efficiency, improve coordination of economic activities and thus facilitate
increased business productivity and growth. Compared with alternate means
of communications, reliable telecommunications generally are more efficient
in terms of capital, energy consumption and user time. For rural
communities, improved access to service would facilitate integration of
rural areas with the rest of the economy, improve the efficiency of
production and marketing of agricultural produce, and support the creation
of small business. Telecommunications would also support the extension and
enhancement of health, education, government administration and other
services to rural areas. For the Government itself, the proposed project
would facilitate improvements in the efficiency of Government
administration and parastatals in a way similar to improvement in private
business efficiency. In addition, revenues generated from investments
included in the project would mobilize substantial domestic resources for
Government at a time of severe budgetary constraints. The Government would
share in UPTC's profits through taxing (60Z) of UPTC's overall income. It
is estimated that during the project period, the Government would receive
about US$10 million by way of tax on UPTC's profits. In addition, UPTC
would pay interest (8Z) on IDA credit funds (about US$46 million) onlent by
the Government. Annual payments to the Government after the credit is
fully drawn down would amount to some US$4 million.  Additional payments to
the Government may result by way of distribution of UPTC net profits
depending on UPTC's needs for funds for investment and other purposes as
determined by its Board of Directors.
Tariffs
6.03     UPTC's latest available tariffs are summarized in Annex 21.  They
mainly follow the structure of the former EAPTC tariffs, with some
adju3tments to reflect devaluation of the Uganda Shilling. The



- 3o -
Government's policy is for UPTC to be financially self-sufficient and meet
the financial obligations of its investment programs. This is demonstrated
by the two massive tariff increases in the past two years (para. 5.01)
which enabled UPTC to turn in reasonable operating profits in 1986 and
1987. Although large tariff increases require approval of the Government,
UPTC's Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the management,
determines the size and timing of such adjustments. In the case of last
two changes, UPTC Board was instrumental in deciding their magnitude, and
the revised tariffs more or less reflect the Board's decision.
6.04     UPTC's telecommunications tariffs have been among the lowest in
the world. However in October 1986, following Government approval, UPTC's
tariffs were increased manyfold followed by another adjustment in May 1987
(para. 5.01). Following the U Shilling devaluation which occurred after
appraisal UPTC has readjustes its postal and telecommunications tariffs.
These increases mostly offso t the devaluation of the U Shilling, therefore
the adjusted domestic and international tariffs at present are at
reasonable levels.
6.05     Given the high level of inflation (currently about 70X p.a.) and
the pressure on the value of U Shilling, it is imperative that a mechanism
for regular tariff adjustments to offset at least inflation-related cost
increases be established. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that UPTC would review the adequacy of its tariffs every six months on the
basis of financial forecasts prepared by UPTC and satisfactory to IDA to
meet the rate of return covenant, and submit to the Government and IDA a
report on this review within one month of the review date. Assurances were
also obtained that based on the review, if tariff adjustments are
necessary, UPTC and the Government would take all necessary actions to
adjust the tariffs within three months of the review date [para. 7.01 (o)].
6.06     The Government has agreed for UPTC to apply some automatic
adjustment formula to ensure, as an interim measure, at least a partial
adjustment of tariffs without Government's clearance, particularly for
international services to account for high cost increases or currency
depreciation in the period between the formal reviews. One possibility is
to tie both the international and domestic tariffs at least partially to
the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Uganda Shilling and make the
adjustments as a surcharge on a monthly bill based on the average value of
the Uganda Shilling during the billed month. In addition. at negotiations
agreement was reached with UPTC to undertake prior to December 31, 1989
with the help of consultants a full-scale study under TORs acceptable to
IDA, to evaluate the adequacy of its existing tariff levels and structure
and, if warranted, recommend appropriate changes and establish an automatic
tariff adjustment formula acceptable to IDA tpara 7.01 (p)].
Least Cost Solution
6.07     The project design is based on standard engineeringfeconomic
techniques for minimizing capital and recurrent costs. Appropriate
provisioning periods for different types of plant will be adopted and
international competitive bidding will be used for the majority of
procurement. Turnkey contract installation for the key project component
will ensure the earliest possible utilization of plant for revenue
generation.



-391 -
Return on Investment
6.08     The proposed project is an integral part of UPTC 1988-1993
investment program. Since costs and benefits of all components of the
program are interrelated, the financial rate of return is calculated on all
of the investment during the period rather than on the specific items
included in the proposed project. On the basis of projected incremental
expenditures and revenues generated from the investment program the
financial internal rate of return is 10.6Z (Annex 22).
6.09     The financial rate of return understates the economic benefits of
the investment program. It does not take into account all indirect and
external benefits (e.g. transport substitution, administrative efficiency)
derived by non-users of the service. Given the present country situation
and lack of even rudimentary data, no effort has been made to quantify
indirect benefits. After adjusting the financial rate of return for taxes,
the economic rate of return is 14.32.
6.10     A sensitivity analysis has been carried out (Annex 22) which
establishes that the rates of return are highly sensitive to fluctuation in
the revenue. It indicates that a 102 increase in program and operating
costs, combined with a 102 decrease in revenues, would result in a negative
financial rate of return and would reduce the economic rate of return to
less than 12. However, as indicated in para. 5.02 and Annex 20 both the
revenue and expenditure estimates are based on very conservative
assumptions. During the project period while revenues are projected to
remair. constant in dollar terms, the expenditures during the same period
are assumed to increase by at least 52 p.a.. Also a major part of the
project costs i.e. (network rehabilitation) would be incurred on a turnkey
basis and hence there is little likelihood of a significant variations
between actual and estimated capital expenditures.
Risks
6.11     The main project risks relate to the country situation.
Considerable institutional risks in terms of poor financial performance or
inadequate management controls also exist, but will be covered through the
financial and tariff covenants (paras. 5.02 and 6.06), use of technical
assistance (para. 4.23), and performance monitoring (para. 3.17). The
focus on training is also expected to reduce the institutional risks.
Physical implementation and the commercial or market risks are small due to
requirements on advanced procurement (para 6.03), large demand for
services, and implementation performance under the first project.
Environmental and Health Aspects
6.12     The project is expected to have no adverse environmental or health
impacts. The plant is mostly unseen and it consumes little energy.
Improved telecommunications services have the potential to conserve energy,
reduce environmental pollution, and facilitate improved services including
health delivery and emergency care.



- 32 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a) UPTC will consult with IDA on any proposal fcr investment
estimated to cost more than 102 of the amount established in the
investment program for any one year (para. 3.03);
(b) Proceeds of the credit used for financing telecommunications
equipment, plant and associated services (US$45.7 million) would
be onlent by the Government to UPTC at annual rate of 82 to be
repaid over a period of 15 years including 4 years of grace, with
UPTC bearing the foreign exchange risk and the remainder of credit
funds (US$6.6 million) would be given to UPTC as equity
contribution (para. 3.09);
(c) Performance indicators for FY 88/89 and FY89/90 would be as given
in Annex 10 and that for subsequent years, every year during the
pruiect implementation period, UPTC will: (i) prepare for IDA a
review and analysis of its performance vis-&-vis agreed
indicators; and (ii) reach an agreement with IDA on targets,
monitoring and necessary corrective actions for the subsequent
years (para. 3.17);
(d) UPTC will conduct a review of its organizational structure and
develop proposals aimed at reducing the workload of the Managing
Director. Such proposals will be reviewed with IDA and
implemented by December 31, 1989 (para. 4.05);
Ce) UPTC will not change its policy statement without consultation
with IDA (para. 4.06);
(f) UPTC will annually review its remuneration package to ensure its
competitiveness with the general salary structure in the private
sector and other parastatals in Uganda and if necessary make
appropriate adjustments, and design and establish an appropriate
incentive system by June 30, 1989 (para. 4.09);
(g) UPTC, with the help of the consultants, will conduct an initial
assessment of its staffing needs and the initial revision of the
staffing requirements and the determination of both staffing gaps
and redundancies would be completed by December 31, 1989 and until
the results of staffing assessment are made available, with the
exception of filling some critical vacant positions, a hiring
freeze for mid and low-level staff will be instituted (para.
4.10);
(h) UPTC will prepare a detailed training program to be agreed with
IDA by December 31, 1989 (para. 4.11);
(i) Prior to September 30, 1989 UPTC will have finalized twinning
arrangement satisfactory to IDA for in service training and
exchange of professional knowledge and experience (para. 4.11);



- 33 -
(j) Starting June 30, 1989 telephone and telex bills would be issued
within 15 days (para. 4.12);
(k) Government ministries and parastatal bodies would settle by June
30, 1990 all the arrears for telecommunications services provided
and UPTC would reduce its accounts receivable to no more than 90
days of sales by June 30, 1990 and maintain them thereafter at
that level (para. 4.13).
(1) Government's Auditor General would continue to appoint independent
auditors to audit UPTC accounts and that beginning with FY89
audited accounts together with the auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the fiscal year. The
auditors would be requested to submit reports to IDA certifying
that the docurants and procedures supporting the statements of
expenditures are in accordance with the terms and conditions of
the credit (para. 4.14);
(m) The positions of Finance Director, Chief Accountant, Financial and
Expenditure Accountant, Management Accountant and Systems and
Procedure/Data Processing Manager would be filled throughout the
life of the project with qualified and experienced staff; and in
the event that any of the above positions are financed out of the
proceeds of the credit, the terms and conditions of employment
would be acceptable to IDA (para. 4.20);
(n) UPTC's retained earnings each year (after debt service, transfer
to Government, etc.) will cover the estimated local currency
requirements of the following year's investment program, and the
rate of return on its net revalued assets would not be less than
122 (para. 5.02);
(o) UPTC would review the adequacy of its tariffs every six months to
meet the rate of return covenant and based on the review, make
tariff adjustments if necessary. UPTC and the Government would
take all necessary actions to adjust the tariffs within three
months of the review date (para. 6.05); and
(p) prior to December 31, 1989 UPTC, with the help of consultants,
would undertake a study under TORs acceptable to IDA to evaluate
the adequacy of its existing tariff levels and structure, and, ir
warranted, recommend appropriate changes and establish an
automatic tariff adjustment formula acceptable to IDA (para.
6.06).
7.02     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower and UPTC (para. 3.09);



- 34 -
(b) award of the turnkey contract for the network rehabilitation
(para. 3.16);
.z) submission of a comprehensive institutional development program
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.15); and
(d) appointment of financial consultants and recruitment of a
Financial and Expenditure Accountant and a Management Accountant
(para. 4.20);
7.03     Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit to the Government of
Uganda of SDR 38.3 million (US$52.3 million equivalent) on standard terms,
with a 40 years repayment period.



- 3. -
ANNEX 1
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Telephone Service
(December 31, 1987)
ZONE              Number of   Proportion  Population  TELEPHONE: (DELS) PER
DELS        of DELS Z   millions        100 Population
Kampala             17294         62           2.642              0.65
Jinja                3510         12.6        1.501               0.23
Mbalp                2883         10.4         2.907              0.10
Masaka               1850          6.6         3.512              0.05
Fort Portal          1468          5.3        2.380               0.06
Gulu                  850          3.1        2.546               0.03
TOTAL               27855        100         15.488               0.18
March 1988



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Activities of Telephone Subscribers
(December 31, 1987)
Kampala
(including
Entebbe        Jinja
(percent)     (percent)
Residences                                  31            33
Commerce (retail and wholesale)             30            22
Services:
Banking (including insurance)              3             4
Communication and transport                3             2
Education (including state)                5             4
Professionals                              4             4
Water and electricity                      4             1
other services                             1             4
Subtotal               20            19
Government administration (including
defence and police                          11            15
Industry                                     6            10
Other a/                                     2             1
Subtotal              100           100
Number of Subscribers                    17,294         3,510
Z of Total DELs                          64             12
a/       Churches, political party offices, embassies, conference center,
etc.
Source: UPTC, Telephone Sales Office, Kampala.
March 1988



37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Existing Telephone Facilities
(December 31, 1987)
Installed   Installed   Lines
Exchange              Switching      Cable       in    Exchange
Zone              Type            Capacity (lines)  Pairs    Service   Fill Z
Kampala
Central          ElOB                 15,000
C400 Xbar             5,000
Subtotal                            20,000       21,814     9,486       47
Lugazi           C23 Xbar                100          115         90      90
Nsambya          E10 B Rlu             3,000        1,600      1,038      34
Kawemjee         EWE Rlu               1,500          405        337      22
Kyambogo         C23 Xbar              1,000        2,000        332      33
Makerere         E10 B                 5,000      a/3,000      1,247      24
Mbuya            ElOB Rlu              3,000      a/2,000      1,006      33
Mengo            C400 Xbar             3,600        3,200      1,371      38
Lubowa           E10 B Rlu               600          100        272      45
Mukono           E10 Rlu                 600          300        287      47
Bombo            Rurax                   100          200         68      68
Entebbe          C400 Xbar             1,200        1,675      1,190      99
Manual                                 1,340        1,543        570      42
Subtotal                              41,040       37,952    17,294       42
Jinja
Jinja         C400 Xbar              4,000        3,900     2,600       86
Kakira        C23 Xbar                 100          115         70      70
Manual                               1,410        1,386        840      59
Subtotal                               5,510        5,401      3,510      77
Mbale
Mbale          Strowger                800          800        764      96
Mbale          C23 Xbar                800          800        671      84
Tororo         Rurax                   350          900        350     100
Manual                               1,645        2,310      1,098      67
Subtotal                               3,595        4,810      2,883      80



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Installed   Installed   Lines
Exchange              Switching      Cable       in    Exchange
Zone              Type            Capacity (lines)  Pairs    Service   Fill Z
Masaka
Masaka         HDX10 dig.              2000         2800        790      39
Mbarara        HDX10 dig.              2000         2000        340      17
Manual                                 1170         1390        720       62
Subtotal                                 5170         6190       1850      35
Fort Portal
Fort Portal   C23 Xbar                  600          600        460      74
Manual                                 1530         1795       1008       66
Subtotal                                 2130         2395       1468      68
Gulu
Manual                                 1200         1200        850      71
GRAND TOTAL                             57645        57948      27855       49
Auto                     862                    82Z
Manual                   142                    182
Source: UPTC March 1988
March 1988



UGANDA 
POSTS AND TELECOUMUNICATION (UPTCI
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Beai Statistics, 1975-87
December 11   /                1976       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      19 1       1982      1983      1984      ls98      1986       1987
TELEPHDNE SERVICE
Number of exchanges             97        106       121        124       108       106        112        11        118       119        121       121        121
Capacity (lines)            31,166    33.976   38,176    88.405    16,875    U6,480    38,440    36,790    30,966    37,09C    65,000    55,645    57,622
of which autoatic (%)         77         78        77         77        77        77         77        77         77        77         64        85        s6
Connected lin-e DELIu       20,116    19,980    21,058    22,661    19,692    20,626    20,479    22,962    24,067    24,971    25,660    26,799    27,865
exchange occupation (X)       86         69        66         69        54        67         56        62         66        S7         46        48        48
Telephoneu                  46,001    46,108    48,884    62,183    46,359    46,892    43,424    62,762    64,439   S5,820    68,600    67,316    69,263
Oustanding applications    13,340    16,126    18,042    13,561    13,467    15,289    21,233    21,922    19,678    20,200    23,100    22,684    26,374
TELEX SERVICE
Numbr oSf7 xchangq               1           1         1         1         1           1         1         1         1         1          2         2          2
Capaeity (Lines) *-            300         300       300      300        300        300        520      620        620       520     1,020      1,020     1,020
Connected lines  b/            201        233        298      279        285        288        418      419        419       449       650        760       894
e"change occupation (U)       87         78         66       93         96         96         sO       80         80        80        S4         62        87
Outstanding applications        28         66        115      201        268        286        296      306        336       400       280        284        43 a
TELEGRAPH SERVICE
Number of offices               68          64        62       64         64         86         00       66         68        66         6S        67        a6
Paid words, domestic (108)   0.23         0.29      0.26     0.26       0.09       0.09       0.08     0.06       0.05      0.06      0.04      0.036     0.030
International outgoing (10) 0.007      0.006      0.008    0.003      0.004      0.004      0.003    0.002      0.002     0.001     0.001      0.112     0.188
Estimated by UPTC on the bosis of aid-year data                           o    The actual figures for 1986 or. not available (estimated values)
_/       Includes lines used for telegraph service (5 linen)                       *o   The figure includes trunks and subscriber lines
Source:  UrTC, uarch 1988



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TELEPHONE DEMAND
(as of December 31, 1987)
APPLICANTS AS
ZONE                     NUMBER OF DELS*  APPLICANTS       a 2 of DELs
Kampala                      17,294           17,874          103Z
Jinja                         3,510            1,322           37
Mbale                         2,883            2,089           72
Masaka                        1,850            2,670          144
Fort Portal                   1,468              935           65
Gulu                            850              484           41
Tctal         27,855           25,374           92
i Number of DELs include PBX and PCO lines
PRMJECTED DEMAND
Total     Connected lines   Connected lines
December 31       Expressed        DELs         as Z of Expressed
Demand 1/       Lines 2/            Demand
1984           45,120          24,970
1985            49,000         25,560                 52
1986           49,460          26,799                54
1987           53,200          27,900                52
1988           54,400          29,200                 53
1989           63,500          31,000                49
'990            69,000          33,900                49
1991           75,000          38,300                51
1992           81,500          42,900                 53
1/   Assuming 8s p.a. growth in Kampala and 102 p.a. in the rest of the
country
2/    As per UPTC's 1988-94 Investment Program



WCAW~A POSTS AND TELECOMMUP41CATrONS CORPORATIO
PROORAM AND PROJECT or
(US11 millions)
Prior 1988      1988/89            1989/90          1990/91          1991/92           1992/93          1993/94            Total
Local For. Total  Local For. Total  Local For. Total Local For. Tot.al Local For. Total  Local For. Total  Local Fo,. Total
I. rDA Financed Pro;*ct
Kampala Entebbe Jlinja Rehab.              -       5.6 5.6    1.4 8.0  9.4    1.0  6.0  7.0    1.0  6.0 7.0              2.8  2.8                      3.4 28.4 31.8
Tlepnh. records computerization- --   --  - -  -  - -  0.6 0 5--  --                                                   --  -            --             -  0.6 0.6
Rural cal stations -         -    -    -       -            -       0.2  0.2    0.2  0.5  0.7    0.3  0.6  0.9-        --      --             -0.5  1.3  1.8
Telephone instr.                                                    0.2  0.  2  0   06  0.8    0.2  0.7 0.9    0.1  0.5  0.6                           0.5  2.0  2.5
Cable.s and jointing -       ---                                    0.3  0.3    0.23 00.4  0.7    0.3  0.4 0.7    0.3  0.4  0.7                        0.9  1.5  2.4
Vehicles                                                            0.2 0.2    -   0.4  0.4            0.6 0.6           0.6  0.6                      -    1.8  1.8
Eng'ineering Consultants           0.7 0.7         0.3  0.3         0.3  0.3     -   0.2  0.2     -   0.2 0.2--           -    --             --    1.7  1.7
Financial Consultants                    -        0.4  0.4          0.5  0.5     -   0.5  0.5          0.4 0.4---                                   -        1.8  1.8
Institutional Devalopsant          -              0.5  0.5          1.5  1.5    -    1.0  1.0          1.0  1.0-       ----                                  4.0  4.0
Total Base Cost                 0.7 0.7    -   6.8  6.8    1.4 11.2 12.6    1.7 10.2 11.9    1.8  9.9 11.7    0.4  4.3  4.7        -   -   -        5 3 43Y.1 48.4
Contingencies
Physical                     -             -   0.4 0.4    0.1 0.6  0.7    0.1 0.5  0.6    0.1 0.5  0.6           -   0.2  0.2      -   -   -        0.3  2.2  2.5
Price                        --            -   0.2  0.2    0.1 0.3  0.4    0.2  1.1  1.3    0.5  1.5 2.0    0.1  0.9  1.0          -   -   -        0.9  4.0  4.9
Total Proieet Cost              0.7 0.7    -   7.4  7.4    1.6 12.1 13.7    2.0 11.8 18.8    2.4 11.9 14.3    0.5  5.4  S.9        -   -   -        6.5  49.3 55.8
I.other Inwesteents
Saitch. Entebbe - jiti~.s---                  -                     0.3  0.3    0.1  2.5  2.6     -   0.2  0.2--         -    -       -    -    -      0.1  3.0  3.1
Teleprinter.                                                        0.2  0.2         0.2  0.2    0.1 0.2  0.3            0.2  0.2                      0.1  0.8  0.9
Telex eatension       ----                                                           0.2  0.2    0.1 0.5  0.6            0.1  0.1                      0.1  0.8. 0.9
Earth Station                                                       0.8  0.8    0.2  1.5  1.7    0.2  1.7  1.9          0.4  0.4                       0.4  4.4  4.8
Digital link DVo.aaa0.3 0.3    0.1  1.0  1.1    0.1  0.2  0.3-                                                        ---                   - --      0.2   1.5  1.7                4
Int, transit each.    -----                                                   -       -           -    1.2  1.2    0.2 4.0  4.2           1.5  1.5    0.2  6.7  6.9
VHF LWF tranas.       ---0.8a0.8    0.2  1.5  1.7    0.2  2.8  2.0                                                                        0.5  0.5    0.4  4.6  5.0
Total Baee Cost.                                                 1.6  1.6    0.4  8.2  6.6    0.7  5.5  6.2    0.4  6.5  6.9           2.0  2.0     1 5 21.8 23.3
Contingencies
Physical                                                    - 0.1  0.1    -   0.3  0.3         -   0.3  0.3      -   0.3  0.3     - 0.1  0.1    -    1.1  1.1
Price                                                       - 0.1 0.1    -   0.6 0.6    0.1  0.8  0.9    0.1  1.3  1.4            - 0.5  0.5    0.2  3.3  3.5
Total Other Investmeqnts----                  - - -            -    1.8  1.8    0.4  7.1  7.5    0.8  6.6  7.4    0.5  8.1 8.6       - 2.6  2.6    1.7 26.2 27.9
III. Ofnooina works
Rehab. EIO10                    -  1.4 1.4   -   1.3  1.4       -   0.4 0.5----    3.1 3.1
1SD                             - -  -        0.1  1.0  1.0    0.1  1.1 1.1---0.2  2.1 2.3
KOO0                            - -   -       -   1.4  1.4    0.8 5.2 6.0             0.7 0.7--- -                  - - -0.8   7.3 8.1
Total Onnoina works          - 1.4 1.4   0.1 3.7 3.8    0.9  6.7 7.6    -   0-.7 0.7-1.0 - -                                                             12.5 13.5
TOTAL AMOUNT                    - 2.1 2.1   0.1 11.1 11.2    2.5 20.6 23.1    2.4 19.6 22.0    3.2 18.5 21.7    1.0 13.5 14.5         -   2.6 2.6    9.2 88.0 97.2
CAPITAL E)CPEO1NrTR-,



- 42 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IDA                              Cumulative            Bank's Profiles
FY/Semester      Disbursements  through         For all sectors  Telecom Sector
Ending           in Semester    Semester a/   in Africa            World Wide
FY89
June 30, 1989           2.0 b/         2.0            0.5             0.5
FY90
Dec. 31, 1989           6.0            8.0            2.5             1.4
June 30, 1990           6.0           14.0            5.8             3.6
FY91
Dec. 31, 1990           6.0           20.0            9.4             7.2
June 30, 1991           6.0           26.0           13.8            11.6
FY92
Dec. 31, 1991           7.0           33.0           18.4            16.5
June 30. 1992           7.0           40.0           22.8            22.0
FY93
Dec. 31, 1992           4.0           44.0           27.8            27.0
June 30, 1993           4.0           48.0           32.2            32.2
FY94
Dec. 31, 1993           4.0           52.0           36.6            36.6
June 30, 1994           0.3           52.3           40.5            40.7
FY95
Dec. 31, 1994                                        43.2            44.0
June 30, 1995                                        46.2            46.5
FY96
Dec. 31, 1995                                        49.0            49.0
June 30, 1996                                        50.1            50.9
FY97
Dec. 31, 1996                                        51.7            51.7
June 30, 1997                                        52.3            52.3



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
a/ Bank's disbursements profile modified for Uganda because a major
component will be implemented on a turnkey basis, and most of technical
assistance personnel are required to be in place at the beginning of
project implementation.
b/ Includes disbursements under PPFs.



-4-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 9
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
FOR
THE LOCAL CABLE NETWORK REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       The principal task is to assist UPTC to plan and prepare detailed
specifications and invite bids for cable networks for about 150,000 pair
kilometers in Kampala and Jinja included in the project, and to assist in
evaluation of bids and supervision and acceptance of completed
installations. In carrying out this task the Consultants will pay
particular attention to organizing within UPTC to cover the following
functions:
(a) prepare plans to achieve least costs for the individual cable
networks in Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe and if necessary to prepare
the necessary forecasts for telephone connections; these plans
will obviously take into account existing facilities;
(b; prepare technical specifications based on international standards;
(c) prepare tender documents and invitation to bids;
(d) evaluate bids and draw up contract for supply and installation of
cables; and
(e) supervise the installation and acceptance of completed system.
I. Scope of Work
General
2.       The Consultant shall undertake all engineering designs, physical
surveys, and other work herein described, as required to attain the
objectives of the project. In the conduct of their work, the Consultants
shall collaborate closely with UPTC, which will assign counterpart staff to
work with Consultants and provide the data, services and facilities
outlined in Part 5 herein. The Consultant shall be solely responsible,
however, for the interpretation of all data and services received and for
the findings and recommendations contained in their reports.



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 9
3.       In general, Consultants will be required to undertake the
following works.
(a) review UPTC's current cable network plans (where they exist) for
subscriber and junction network in Kampala (Entebbe) and Jinja
areas and/or prepare new plans where necessary;
(b) undertake basic design and engineering of each network and
determine quantities of different types and sizes of cables and
all items required to connect cables to local exchanges at one end
and subscriber line protectors at the other;
(c) undertake basic design and engineering of each junction network
and determine quantities of different types and sizes of cables
and all items required to connect cables to local exchanges at one
end and tender/trunk exchanges at the other;
(d) prepare tender documents including scope of works, technical
specifications for appointment of turnkey contractors who will be
responsible for supply and installation of call cables and
associated equipment items; invite proposals from contractors,
evaluate proposals received and make recommendations to UPTC;
draft contracts and assist UPTC in contract negotiation;
(f) supervise work of turnkey contractors and assist UPTC in final
acceptance of contractors work and payment of bills; and
(g) train UPTC staff in all above aspects.
II. Manmonths
4.       It is assessed that a total of 120 manmonths of consultants
services will be required for all the above tasks. Consultants may,
however, make their own assessment of the actual services needed.
Consultants shall indicate in their proposal the following for each of the
tasks:
(a) total manmonths proposed to be employed;
(b) person (or persons) proposed to be employed indicating the
curriculum vitae(s), and period for which each will be available;
(c)  bar chart including the proposed dates of commencement and
completion of the task, period for review, preparation of
proposals, implementation of proposals, training of UPTC staff,
the availability of personnel for the task both in consultants
headquarters and in the field in Uganda;
(d) detailed work program;



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 9
(e) program for transfer of skills and know-how and training of UPTC
staff; and
(f) assistance expected from UPTC specific to the task.
III. Language
5.       English shall be the governing language in respect of this
assignment. All Consultant's personnel shall be fluent in English. All
reports, communication and presentations shall be in English.
IV. Planning
6.       The Consultant shall undertake the planning and design of
subscriber network (from local exchange to protector outside subscriber
premises) for each of the above local areas specifying the cabinet area
boundaries, cabinet locations, distribution points, primary and secondary
cable routes, cable sizes and types, cable duct routes and layouts, manhole
locations and type of construction to be used. It is intended that
construction contractors will undertake manufacture, supply, construction
and installation, including preparation of detail material lists, plans and
drawings.
7.       The Consultant shall also undertake the planning and design of the
junction network specifying transmission media and types of construction to
be used. Traffic routing and route dimensions between local, tandem and/or
trunk (long-distance) switching centers will be defined by the Network Plan
and provided by UPTC. Planning and design shall be based on digital
transmission utilizing PCM carrier or optical fiber transmission media. As
in the local network, turnkey contractors will undertake manufacture,
supply, construction of civil works, and cable installation.
8.       The Consultant shall prepare a Project Implementation Plan that
describes the construction program necessary to meet the network objectives
of UPTC. The Project Implementation Plan will logically divide the project
into manageable units for implementing. The plan will define and schedule
the allocation of equipment, manpower, and financial resources. The plan
shall be subject to approval and shall permit the project schedule and
budget to be effectively monitored and tracked.
9.       The Consultant shall assure himself that the Cable Network Plan
has been optimized to a degree commensurate with the scale of the
investment being undertaken. This assurance shall include, but not be
limited to, investigation of the following:
(a) appropriateness of the optimization procedure used;
(b) accuracy and completeness of demand forecasts for subscribers;
(c) costs used; and
(d) consideration of existing plant.



- 41 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 9
10.      If the Consultant is not confident of the validity of the Network
Plan, he shall advise UPTC of the perceived deficiencies and proposed
corrective measures. The Consultant shall work closely with the UPTC on
any matters concerning the Network Plan and all changes to the plan shall
be subject to UPTC approval. In any event the Consultant shall not proceed
in uncertainty.
V. Engineering
11.      The Consultant shall review and validate, or review and revise,
all existing UPTC planning documents, planning procedures, technical
specifications, technical standards, technical, practices, contract terms
and conditions, and procurement procedures.
12.      All relevant factors shall be considered and accounted for in the
system design including, but not limited to the following:
(a) use of existing facilities;
(b) UPTC policies and objectives;
(c) appropriate CCITT recommendations;
(d) future network growth to higher service densities, to new service
areas, and to new service offerings; and
(e) future technological trends and standards.
13.      The Consultant shall optimize the outside plant networks taking
into consideration and verifying all pertinent factors including demand
forecasts, costs, specific geographic constraints, and existing plant.
Design decisions to be made in optimizing the network include at least the
following:
(a) layout and capacity of the basic supporting infrastructure;
(b) definition of subscriber loop design rules;
(c) basic distribution scheme and cross-connect rules;
(d) basic cable layout and service area for each cross-connect and
distribution point; and
(e) scheduling and defining the design characteristics of each
installation (such as cable type, size, etc.)
14.      The Consultant shall take due consideration of forecasting for
both subscriber demand for service connections and traffic demand for
circuits. Ascending and descending methods of forecasting shall be used in



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 9
any differences reconciled using an acceptable method. The Consultant
shall regularly review and evaluate the forecasting methods used against
the accuracy of the results obtained. The methods used shall be modified
accordingly to improve accuracy and maintain currency of the methods.
15.      The outside plant design will take into consideration technology
trends toward the future implementation of, or logical evolution toward,
the integrated services digital network (ISDN). Digital subscriber carrier
and distributed switching echniques (remote concentrators) will be used to
avoid loaded cable and to limit local loops consistent with expected
standards and technologies.
16.      UPTC will provide all relevant information available including:
(a) exchange area boundaries (maps);
(b) exchange locations and layouts;
(c) existing plant records;
(d) macro demand forecasts;
(e) list of waiting subscriptions;
(f) existing UPTC design, construction; and
(g) installation standard practices; and city plans and other
forecasting data.
17.      To expedite the outside plant component while attaining a high
design standard and maintaining construction efficiency, it is intended
that the following approach be used:
(a) under the leadership of the Consultant, a joint team comprising
both UPTC and consultant staff will establish at least one local
service area as a planning, design, and detailed engineering
model/models upon which all others will be based;
(b) the d'.:sign guidelines established by the model or models will e
used by the Consultant in preparing other designs; and
(c) contractors will be competitively selected to undertake
manufacture, supply construction and installatiori of outside
plant. The construction by the contractors will be in accordance
with the requirements derived from model or models.
18.      Considerable lead times are necessary to obtain various licenses,
clearances, permits, and other regularity requirements. These apply to
land acquisitions, right of way easements and construction activities.
These lead time must be identified and understood to allow schedule to be
established with suitable margins.



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 9
VI. Appointment of Turnkey Contractors
19.      The Consultant's role during the contract bidding cycle shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
(a) assist UPTC in proposal tender documents;
(b) prepare addendums to contracts as required and assist UPTC in
issuing addendums;
(c) participate in bidders' conferences as required;
(d) evaluate bids and prepare summaries;
se) select and recommend contractors to UPTC; and
(f) review contract award procedures, draft contraLts, assist UPTC in
contract negotiations, and in contract award supervisions.
20.      The Consultant shall review and approve all contractor submissions
including, but not limited to the following:
(a) engineering designs and plans;
(b) test plans and procedures;
(c) test equipment and tool lists;
(d) acceptance procedures; and
(e) recommended spares lists.
21.      The Consultant shall monitor, track, and expedite equipment
procurement and deliveries.
22.      The Consultant shall assist UPTC factory acceptance tests if
required and preparations of appropriate factory acceptance reports to
UPTC.
VII. Supervision and Inspection
23.      The Consultant shall supervise and inspect the contractor's
construction and installation work and monitor and track to resolution all
deficiencies and deviations.
24.      Deviations from the contract technical requirements shall be
subject to review by the consultant. Based on his review, the Consultant
shall submit recommendations to the UPTC for their approval. Such reviews
and recommendations shall be made in a timely fashion.



- 50 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 9
25.      The Consultant shall prepare, or if applicable review, all
facility and system acceptance plans and procedures. Acceptance shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, confirmation of contract
performance with respect to:
(a) types and quantities of equipment, materials and documentation;
(b) quality of workmanship and completeness of installations; and
(c) system functional operation and technical performance.
26.      The Consultant shall witness all acceptance tests and report the
findings to UPTC. The acceptance reports shall make recommendations
concerning the final acceptance, however UPTC retains the exclusive right
of all final acceptances.
VII. Management
27.      The Consultant shall provide an organizational infrastructure that
is appropriate for the project. The organization will undertake self
examination on a regular and on an as required basis that will result in
any change necessary to attain and maintain efficiency. Particular
attention will be paid to lines of authority and interfaces with UPTC.
28.      The Consultant shall establish and follow suitable operating
procedures that will specify at least the following:
(a) how resources, such as time, manpower, and costs will be accounted
for
(b) what management reporting schemes will be used; and
(c) how will quality assurances be maintained.
29.      A master schedule and a maRter budget shall be prepared and
maintained fcr both the project as a whole and the consultant services.
30.      The Consultant shall prepare, and submit to UPTC, reports and
other documentation to effectively manage and document the project.
31.      The formalized means of processing design and engineering change
authorizations shall be established with UPTC.
IX. Transfer of Knowledge
32.      The transfer of knowledge from the Consultant to UPTC shail
include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) techniques and methods of a planning, design, engineering and
project management nature; and detailed project information
concerning final facility configurations, operations, and
maintenance.



- 31-
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 9
33.      The Consultant shall transfer knowledge of a technical, project
management, and procedural nature to UPTC. To facilitate this transfer to
UPTC in an efficient and mutually understood manner, the Consultant shall
prepare a training plan that will be subject to UPTC approval. The
training plan shall scope the range of subject matter and level of detail.
Both formal training courses and on-the-job training shall be included.
34.      The Consultant shall establish and maintain a system of technical
project files and records that is suitable for engineering and managing a
project of this nature and magnitude. The technical files and records
shall be accessible to UPTC and shall be turned over to UPTC in an orderly
and timely fashion upon project completion or upon termination of the
Consultant's contract.
X. Consultant's Responsibilities
35.      The Consultant is responsible to UPTC for providing the services
described by these Terms of Reference, and any additional services that may
be deemed necessary and appropriate to achieve the objectives of the
project within the timeframe and budget allocated.
36.      The Consultant shall assign a Project Manager to assume overall
responsibility for the Consultants, construction intervals, etc. to permit
a timely implementation of the project.
37.      The Consultant shall develop an awareness of all relevant Ugandan
regulatory constraints, construction intervals etc. to permit a timely
implementation of the project.
38.      The Consultant shall provide UPTC with adequate lead times for
documentation approval, land acquisition, equipment procurement, frequency
licensing, any necessary permits for construction, etc.
39.      It is noted that the Consultant must submit various plans,
reports, recommendations, and other submissions to the UPTC for review and
approval before continuing with certain parts of the project. The UPTC is
responsible for providing a timely response in accordance with the
requirements of Section I.
40.      The Consultant shall recommend to UPTC that payments to
contractors be made upon verification of satisfactory completion of
contract requirements and schedules.
41.      The Consultant shall provide regular project management reports to
UPTC.
42.      The Consultant shall follow all applicable UPTC policies and
procedures. If any of these policies or procedures impact project
implementation, then the Consultant shall recommend suitable changes.



- 52 -
ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 9
43.      The Consultant shall assist UPTC in the preparation of any
documents pertaining to the project.
44.      Under the terms of this contract the Consultant shall be solely
responsible for the work of the Consultant's employees.
45.      The Consultant is responsible for informing the UPTC in a timely
fashion of any and all conditions, or changes, or other factors that occur
or appear likely to occur, which jeopardize the budget, schedule, or
quality of the project.
46.      In the event that delays occur in the implementation of the
project, the Consultant shall act, or propose action, as necessary to
localize and minimize the impact of these delays on the project.



UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Activity                      1988              1989               1990              1991              1992
Bidding
Evaluation, Contract
Manufactuning
Shipping                                                         -
Civil works
Installation
Commissioning
EKiCW44136A



- 54 -
AN?EX 10
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Performance Indicators
A set of indicators which would assist in the monitoring of UPTC's
performance during the project period has been established. UPTC will be
asked to report on the actual as well as on the projected achievement
related to the performance indicators.
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Telephone lines connected           1,800   2,900   4,400   4,600   5,000
Telex lines connected                  60       60     480      240      50
Telecommunications staff per           58       56      53       50      48
1,000 DELs
Haintenance targets (speed of
fault-clearance)
Z of faults cleared within 24 hours.   n.a.   20        25       50      60
Z a    a       a        1 24 to 72 hrs. n.a.   20       20       30      25
z '    a        f   after 72 hrs.       n.a.   60       55       20      15
Average call completion rates
Local calls Z                      30       40      50       55      60
Weeks of billing delay at year end:
Telephone                             6        4       2        2       2
Telex                                 6        4       2        2       2
Rate of return on net revalued assets 12.8Z   14.12   12.22   12.12   12.92
Receivables outstanding as a of
annual revenues                  1142    1062      762     502      28Z
Annual Investment ($ million)           11.2    23.1    22.0    21.7    25.0



ANNEX 11
tJGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMHUNICATIONS REEABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UPTC Organization Chart
SOAO OF DIRECTORSI
MIANAIN  DIRECTOR I
CHIEF INTERNAL      1                                       |   PRINIPAL PUOSIC  |
|     AUDtTOR                                                       RELATION  OFFICER
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT                                             SENI|  INTERNATIONA
DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR      DIRECTOR      DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR           OF          DIRECTOR       CORPORATION      DIRECTORt       DIRECTORt
OF            OF            OF             OP          CORPORATE          OF          SECRETARIAT         OP              OF
POSTAL       PERSONNIEL    FINANCE        CORPORATE       PAMEING,      ENGINEERING                      TELCOMS         SAVINGS
SERVICES         AND                       SERICES      MARETING AND    PLANNINg                             ANDSAI
TRAINING                                   INFORMATION         AND                         OPERATIONS
SYSTEMS      CONSTRUCTION                    MAINTENANCE
Six units     Four units    Three units    Three unit.    Three units    Two units          Threo units
responsible   responsible   responsible    responsible    responsible    responsible    responsible
fort          for:           for:           fort            for:            for:            fort
internal      overall        operation      all  coqmuter   proepring       Internal        mansgement of
manpower      financial      and saint.-    operations on  technical        security and   the eight
develIopment   mangagment,   nonce of        a centralized  designs for    investigations, regional
and, staff    accounting.   buildings       basis, as well switching.       lnternal logo! offices and
training,     sevenue and   and transport  as planning    networking,    services and   their related
minor in-     collections,  services on s and marketing  and trans-         analysis and   systems,
house usd1-   disbursements pooler- basis   for tho Corpo- mission          legal repre-   maI ntenancea of
cal services, and expen-    and the          ration as a    systems and    sentation of   transmission,
employment,   ditures, and  centralized    whole.           construction   the corporation  switching,
compensation, international Procurement,                    of auceh        eatarnally,      power and air
benefits,     financial      stocking, and                  facilities.    preparation of  conditioning
Industrial    transactions, provision of                                    all documents   equipment,
relations                    all supplies.                                  requirsd for    operation of
and staff                                                                  meeting of the  Intoenal and
welfare.                                                                    Board, and,      Internationsl
and the                                                                     through the      Telecoemm-
overall                                                                     Managing Dir.,  nicatlon
administra.                                                                 coemunication   services.
tion of the                                                                 of Board deci-
Corporation,                                                                sions to the
other eight
dsparteents
and I regional
of fi1ces.



- 56 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
STATEMENT OF POLICY
1.       The statement, as amended from time to time, defines the policies
which shall apply to the activities and operations of the Uganda Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation hereinafter referred to as the
'Corporation".
OBJECTIVES
2.       The Corporation is an independent institution, established by an
Act of Parliament to provide postal and telecommunications services within
Uganda, between Uganda and the rest of the world and to regulate and
control radio communications operated from or received in Uganda. The
Corporation also manages and controls, on behalf of the Government of
Uganda, a Savings Bank in accordance with the laws governing banking and
credit institutions. In pursuance of these objectives the Corporation
conducts its business on commercial principles and performs its functions
in such a manner as to secure that, taking one year with another, its
income is sufficient to meet its expenditures and its net operating income
is not less than sufficient to secure an annual return on the value of the
net fixed assets in operation by the Corporation equal to or more than 12
percent per annum.
3.       To finance its activities, the Corporation raises necessary funds
through loans from the government, organisations and persons, through
normal business activities, other donor governments and agencies and by
other methods approved by the Board.
4.       In carrying out its functions, the Corporation observes
government's broad.policies relating to the postal and telecommunications
sectors. It aims to keep the cost of the services it provides as low as
possible while meeting its obligations outlined in paragraph 2. above to
cover its development, operating and financial costs, make adequate
provision against bad debts and other losses, build up reserves adequate to
maintain its financial integrity and soundness as well as pay reasonable
return on the value of its net fixed assets.
QUALITY OF SERVICES AND CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS
5.       In the interest of improving efficiency, the Corporation reviews
its operating, financial and administrative procedures and practices to
ensure proper information and data collection and analysis and timeliness
of billing and collections. Every effort is made to optimise
staff/customer ratio for effective and efficient service.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
6.       Customers are required to meet their obligations when due.  They
are required to settle, in full, amounts due to the Corporation within one
month from the date of the bill. To safeguard against defaults and reduce
its exposure, the Corporation requires that customers pay in advance annual
rental for Post Office box and keep a deposit equal to the replacement cost
of telephone receiving and telex machines. In the event of a default
continuing for more than three months the service to the customer is
automatically disconnected and remains disconnected until arrears are
settled in full. The customers are required to keep in good working
condition subscriber apparatus belonging to the Corporation.
FINANCIAL POLICIES
7.       The Corporation is conscious of its obligations to maintain its
credibility and integrity as an efficient and financially viable
institution. It aims at all times to honor its obligations when due. Its
tariffs are established and adjusted from time to time by the Board of
Directors, subject to the approval of the Minister, within the general
guidelines agreed with the government based on the overall economic
situation in the country.
S.       The Corporation determines the level of adequate provision against
deliquent accounts and other potential losses in accordance with prudent
accounting policies, and builds its reserves to a level consistent with
sound financial practices. Subject to these limitations and other
financial requirements of the Corporation and restrictions thereon
applicable from time to time, such as minimum contribution to annual
capital expenditures, annual surpluses are invested and/or distributed at
the discretion of the Board. The Corporation maintains a satisfactory
relationship between the maturities of its obligations and cash and other
liquid assets available to it.
ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, STAFFING AND TRAINING
9.       The Corporation endeavours to develop and maintain a well balanced
postal and telecommunications network and facilities, staff and management
team capable of operating and maintaining its infrastructure to provide
prompt and efficient service.
10.      To improve the quality of service it provides and to support
sustained improvements, the Corporation will establish and maintain a
training program necessary to ensure adequate management and staff
capabilities. Such training will include all levels of the Corporation
staff.



- 58 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
11.      To attract and retain qualified personnel to meet its staffing
requirements, the Corporation at all times endeavours to provide financial
benefits and other incentives consistent with the prevailing practices of
other commercially oriented organisations in Uganda.



59 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 18
UGANDA
UGANDA POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1.       A priority objective of UPTC is the substantial improvement of its
overall institutional capacity. In response, the corporation recognizes
that improvement in the quality of its services and the efficient
utilization of both existing and projected physical facilities will not
result simply from major investment in capital stock alone. Rather,
institutional performance is affected by a multitude of factors which can
be grouped in one or more of the following categories: (i) the specific
functions the organization is supposed to perform; (ii) the organizational
structure of authority and behavior; (iii) the actual systems through which
Individual behaviors are linked one with another; (iv) the financial,
material, and human resources available to the organization; and (v) the
morale of staff. To be successful, a program of institutional capacity
improvement must take all of these elements into account; even if it cannot
provide a direct programmatic response to each and every one.
A. Background
Problems and Constraints
2.       UPTC's current situation is characterized by such extensive war
damage to and non-maintenance of the existing infrastructure that local
cable networks and subscriber facilities in Kampala, Entebbe, and Jinja are
over 80 percent beyond repairs. In addition, UPTC was until recently in a
critical financial situation and could not comply with the financial
covenants of its current credit agreement with IDA because of exceptionally
low tariffs. In October 1986, however, UPTC's tariffs were increased
manifold followed by another round of substantial tariff adjustments in May
1987. Despite recent improvements, large scale additional assistance and
resources are required to reach the Government's goal of network
rehabilitation and institutional strengthening, as included in its
Rehabilitation and Development Plan (1987-91).
3.       With specific reference to the more human side of institutional
capacity, a variety of fundamental organizational and managerial
difficulties have been identifiedt



60
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 18
(a)     technical skill deficiencies among executive, technical,
financial, and administrative support staff;
(b)     inadequate availability of qualified middle managers and
supervisory personnel (especially at levels below Chief of
Departments);
(c)     lack of qualified and skilled personnel available for
employment within UPTC as well as in Uganda due mainly to
grossly inadequate financial incentives;
(d)     absence of medium and long-term corporate planning and any
system linking corporate planning, budgeting, and
management information;
(e)     lack of established (and systematic) procedures for
coordination and information sharing among and between
departments and between divisions in departments;
(f)     low morale and staff indiscipline;
(g)     low awareness of the business objective of the
institution, especially among the lower level staff;
(h)     ineffective procurement, stock control/inventory
management and internal supply; and
(i)     an insufficient commercial orientation and procedures
directed toward enhanced customer service.
eganization
4.       As a partial response to these various problems, the Managing
Director, assisted.by the staff of the Corporation, has proposed the
details of a new organizational structure to the Board which, in turn, has
considered and approved it in large part.1   In summary, the new structure
consists of nine departments, each headed by a Director, and four other
smaller units each reporting directly to the Managing Director. Two of
1/ A report, based on a management review conducted by two experts from
British Telecoms during March and April 1987 provided recommendations to
UPTC on reorganization issues. The report focussed primarily on
structural issues and job descriptions for senior planning and management
staff within that structure. Although UPTC benefitted from that report,
the organizational structure recommended to and largely approved by the
Board departs from it in significant respects.



61 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 18
those divisions (e.g., Postal and Savings Bank) have no direct impact on
the Corporation's telecommunications operations. Another department,
Telecommunications and Operations Maintenance, operates exclusively with
reference to telecommunications operations. The other six departments
service all three of the majar functions of the Corporation: (i) postal;
(ii) savings; and (iii) telecommunications. Excluding the Postal and
Savings Bank Departments, the respective responsibilities of the seven
relevant departments are summarized below:
(a)     Department of Personnel and Training is sub-divided into
six units with responsibilities for internal manpower
development and staff training, minor in-house medical
services, employment, compensation, benefits, industrial
relations and staff welfare, and the overall
administration of the Corporation;
(b)     Department of Finance is sub-divided into four units
responsible for overall financial management, including
accounting, revenue and collections, disbursements and
expeuditures, and international financial transactions;
(c)     Department of Corporate Services is sub-divided into three
units responsible for the operation and maintenance of
buildings and transport services on a pooled basis and the
centralized procurement, stocking, and provision of all
supplies;
(d)     Department of Corporate Planning, MarkeAng, and
Information Systems is sub-divided into three units
responsible for all computer operations on a centralized
basis, as well as planning and marketing for the
Corporation as a whole;
(e)     Department of Engineering Planning and Construction is
sub-divided into three units responsible for preparing
technical designs for switching, networking, and
transmission systems and construction of such facilities;
(f)     Corporation Secretariat is sub-divided into two units
responsible for internal security and investigations,
internal legal services and analysis and legal
representation of the Corporation externally, preparation
of all documents required for meetings of the Board, and,
through the Managing Director, communication of Board
decisions to the other eight departments and eight
regional offices; and



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 18
(g)     Department of Telecommunications and Operations
Maintenance is sub-divided into three units responsible
for management of the eight regional offices and their
related systems, maintenance of transmission, switching,
power and air conditioning equipment, and operation of
internal and international telecommunication services.
5.       Other Units.  In addition to the nine department heads, four other
senior officers report directly to the Managing Director: (i) Chief
Internal Auditor; (ii) Executive Assistant; (iii) Principal Public
Relations Officer; and (iv) Senior International Relations Officer.
(a)     The Chief Internal Auditor and his staff are responsible
for auditing all accounts, establishing accounting and
auditing regulations, undertaking studies for the
maintenance of efficient financial management procedures,
and undertaking non-financial performance audits.
(b)     Executive Assistant is available to assist the Managing
Director on special assignments at the latter's
discretion;
(c)     The Principal Public Relations Officer handles all
conmunications with both local and international mass
medih; and
(d)     The Senior International Relations Officer is responsible,
on behalf of the Managing Director, for liaison with
international organizations.
6.       In any event, it should be noted that the new system is not yet
fully installed and, therefore, the UPTC's operations are currently being
managed in the an ad hoc manner characteristic of organizational
transitions. Thus, it should be expected that, during the current period
of transition, even further deterioration in institutional performance may
occur as managerial and staff personnel at all levels become acquainted
with their responsibilities and new working relationships are established.
The primary objective must, therefore, be to move quickly through the
transition period; in part by r eating an atmosphere of actively moving
forward toward improved performance and staff welfare.
B. Strategy Summary
7.       Aq stated above (para. 1), an effective institutional development
strategy must take into account the following elements: (i) functions; (ii)
the structure of authority and behavior; (iii) system linkages; (iv)
available resources; and (v) staff morale. Each of these elements are
discussed further below in the context of UPTC's rehabilitation program.



63 _
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 18
Functions
8.       In addition to its technical postal, savings, and communications
functions, UPTC must also: (i) define its mission and plan its business for
the short and medium-term; (ii) provide for efficient and effective
financial planning and management, including establishment and recurrent
adjustment of tariffs, determination of an adequate provision against
delinquent accounts and other potential losses, deciding on investment
and/or distribution of annual surpluses, and the raising of necessary
funds; (iii) monitor its internal procedures and actual behavior and ensure
proper information and data collection and analysis; (iv) provide for
effective manpower administration and development, including the
establishment and maintenance of a training program necessary to ensure
adequate management and staff capabilities and improve staff morale
sufficiently to ensure the effective application of staff skills; (v)
manage its physical plant and equipment; and (vi) ensure efficient and
effective links with the broader economic, social, and physical environment
within which it must operate, both locally and internationally.
Structure
9.       A new organizational structure has been described above (paras.
4-5). The key issue is whether or not each and every one of the technical
and, as identified above (para. 8), non-technical functions which must be
performed are assigned to one or another specific unit in that structure
and, if so, whether those assignments (as distinct from any possible
alternatives) are likely to optimize the effective and efficient operations
of UPTC. Although no detailed organizational analyses has yet been
conducted in those specific terms, it appears as if the current situation
in that regard is as illustrated in Figure 1 (next page). Assuming that is
the case, there appears to be only two significant problems in the
structure itself.
10.      The first of these structural problems is the apparent absence of
any unit assigned responsibility for doing systematic analyses and
providing recommendations at the staff level concerning non-technical
financial and investment planning issues. The current terms of reference
for both the Internal Auditor and the Finance Department focus on financial
management, not financial planning; nor does the Department of Corporate
Planning, Marketing, and Information Services have any direct
responsibility for overall corporate planning (of either a financial or
non-financial kind) in the sense that such a function is normally
understood. Rather, the latter department's planning functions, as
currently described, are limited to: (i) market research; (ii) the
collection of economic statistics and tariff studies; (iii) technical
telecommunications planning; and (iv) technical postal service planning and
development. Thus, the structure of the Corporate Planning Department
should be revised to include a unit responsible for overall coordination



64
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 18
and integration of planning within the UPTC and consideration should be
given to locating a financial planning function in the Finance Department
which, in response to overall corporate planning activities, can address
issues of financial opportunities and constraints.
11.       The other problem concerns the span of control of the Managing
Director who is not only responsible for providing the interface between
the senior management team of UPTC with both the external environment and
the Board of Directors, but he must also directly supervise nine department
directors and four other senior level staff. Therefore, to reduce that
burden on the Managing Director, a new senior staff position close to the
Managing Director (i.e., Deputy Managing Director (operational or assistant
to the Managing Director, Adviser) should be created and filled.
Systems
12.       Given current conditions within the UPTC and its priority
operational requirements, the need for programmatic systems in seven
functional areas can be identified as first priorities and should,
therefore, be addressed in its first medium-term institutional development
strategy. These seven areas are: (i) corporate planning; (ii) management
of the planning process; (iii) supervision of staff and resource
management; (iv) integration of functions; (v) introductioni of a management
information system (MIS); (vi) improvement in billing and collections; and
(vii) upgrading accounting and audit functions. All but the last two
listed areas, which are discussed elsewhere, are discussed below.
Fiaure 1; Structural Allocation of Functions
Functions                      Organizational Unit
(a) define mission.                (a)  The Board of Directors.
(b) plan operations for the short   (b)  Department of Corporate Planning
and medium-term.                    Marketing, and Information Systems.
(c) provide for efficlent and      (d)  Department of Finance and
effective financial planning        Chief Internal Auditor.
and management.
(d) monitor internal procedures.    (e)  Chief Internal Auditor, Systems and
Procedures Manager and all supervisory
personnel and managers.
(e) ensure proper Information and   (f)  Department of Corporate
data collection/analysis.           Planning, Marketing, and Information
Systems.
(f) provide for effective man-     (8)  Department of Personnel and
power administration and            Training,
development.
(g) manage physical plant and      (h)  Department of Corporate
equlpment.                          Services.
(h) ensure efficient and effective    (i)  Managing Director,
links with the environment.         Corporation Secretary, Principal Public
Relations Officer, and Senior
International Relations Officer.



b -
ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 18
13.      Corporate Planning.  UPTC will, for several years, be operating in
a situation in which its needs will substantially exceed financial,
managerial, and staffing resources. It is estimated that UPTC will be
able, under the best of realistic circumstances, to accommodate only about
52 percent of assumed telephone demand over the next four years. In order
to avoid dispersal of effort and resources through ad hoc decision-making,
UPTC should prepare a five year rolling plan with substantive annual
revisions. That plan should establish business objectives and financial
projections, as well as annual budgets and should specifically reflect the
objectives of the UPTC, as set out in its Statement of Policy. The plan
should be based on estimated: (i) customer demand by type of service
required; (ii) distribution of demand among categories of potential
customers and their locations; (iii) financial, human, and fixed physical
resources available to UPTC; (iv) proposed capital expenditure on
rehabilitation and/or improvement of existing infrastructure and new
facilities; and (v) manpower development and training programs. Based on
these estimates, the plan would establish: (i) priorities among clients
(by type) and geographical location; (ii) aggregate investment targets
linked to those priorities; (iii) sources of funds (internally generated
cash, government contribution and loan capital); (iv) non-financial
resource requirements (e.g., personnel by number and distribution within
the staffing pattern, facilities, and equipment); and (v) assignment of
specific task responsibilities to specified departments and units within
the organization.
14.      The process whereby the Corporate Plan is revised annually should
be the principal instrument for an on-going review of UPTC's operations and
institutional development. UPTC's funding needs in relation to its
projected growth could then be determined as part of the annual review.
The revision of the Corporate Plan should contain budget details for the
following year, including availability of financial resources. It should
also reflect the operating requirements of UPTC based on inputs provided by
the operating units at headquarters, as well as in the field. The revised
Corporate Plan should also include a discussion of assumptions used and
strategies incorporated into the operating and investment programs and
amalgamation of annual plans into five-year projections. An important part
of each annual review of the Corporate Plan should be a constructive
critique of aggregate institutional performance in such key functional
areas as customer service, bill collection, financial write-offs,
administrative costs, staffing and performance evaluations, and manpower
development and training activities. Such critiques should be based on an
understanding that inadequate performance against plan procedures and/or
targets must raise questions not only of staff capacities or intentions,
but also of the implementation feasibility of the relevant part of the
plan. Finally, the annual revision should also include information on any
changes in agreed investment targets and operating programs to ensure the
financial viability of UPTC. To assist the Corporation in the design and
implementation of a new corporate planning system, the Second



- 66 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 8 of 1I
Rehabilitation Project should be used to finance approximately 6 person
months of recurrent short-term consulting services to review the resuts; of
the first three annual revisions.
15.      Management of the Planning Process.  As discussed above, the
Department of Corporate Planning, Marketing, and Information Systems shoiOd
have specific responsibility for developing UPTC's medium-term Corporate
Plan and annual revisions, including (in consultation with the Finance
Department) specification of financial objectives in the planning
guidelines issued to the other eight departments. Nevertheless, the
planning process should ultimately be based on inputs from UPTC managers at
all levels.  Thus, to give practical effect to the corporate five-yenr rod
annual plans, they will need to be disaggregated into annual departflwi,r
and sub-departmental work plans. In order to ensure effective aild O irllly
participation in the process, the Department of Corporate Planning,
Marketing, and Information Systems should develop a 'planning cycle'
Each department, work unit and field office within UPTC should be held
directly responsible for preparing their own specific work plans. Detailed
instructions and guidelines would need to be issued, explicitly: (ij
reiterating Corporate objectives (and revisions, if and when they occur);
(ii' outlining the kind of information required and the formats ioi .tlld
timing of submissions; (iii) designating specific responsibility for
preparation and review; and (iv) reminding managers and staff of the direo_
link between planning criteria and UPTC's objectives as articulated in it-s
Statement of Policy. Currently, such criteria include: (i) conduct o'2 i k:;
business on commercial principles; (ii) performance of its functionis in
such a manner as to ensure that, taking one year with another, its income
is sufficient to meet its expenditures; (iii) establishment of projected
net operating income so it is not less than sufficient to secure an annual
return on the value of its net fixed assets equal to or more than 12
percent per annum; (iv) optimization of its staff/customer ratio for
effective and efficient service; and (v) optimize use of its Linancial,
human, and physical resources so as to provide for equitable distribution
of its services among the various categories of current and potential
customers and their locations, taking into account national economic and
financial requirements. These instructions would also set out a process
for reviewing the performance of income and cost control at appropi iato
levels within UPTC.
16.      Although not yet fully developed, the first planning cycle should
be launched by a series of action-planning workshops for each Managemel.
Team within the UPTC to prepare detailed work programs for each depaLLMent.
Based on that experience, a planning conference, attended by senior
managers, would need to be held at which detailed guidelines for
preparation of the first annual revision of the Corporate Plan would be
reviewed and finalized. Beginning in 1990, annual action-planning
workshops should be conducted for the initiation of the process fox aoiva
revisions of the Corporate Plan.



- 67 -
ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 18
17.      Under such a system, inputs received from the eight other
departments of the UPTC would be combined by the Department of Corporate
Planning, Marketing, and Information Systems in one integrated annual
revision of the Corporate Plan for the institution as a whole. Formal
approval of the annual revision would be the responsibility of the Board.
Once adopted by the Board, the Corporate Plan, as revised, would serve as
the program of action for the following year's business activities. Actual
performance against planned activities would be measu1red monthly and the
results could be included in a formal report which would be reviewed by the
Board.
18.      A major problem with regard to the establishment of this critical
corporate planning function, however, is that the function is only
tangentially established and is not staffed beyond a single professional
whose day-to-day activities are directed toward more immediate concerns.
Therefore, staffing this function and providing suitable training should be
a high priority of UPTC. At the same time, in order to initiate those
planning activities required by the institutional development program of
the Corporation, the project should be used to finance 39 person months of
recurrent short-term consulting services to prepare planning guidelines (7
person/months) and design and conduct the first three annual series of
action-planning workshops (32 person/months).
19.      Supervision of Staff and Resource Management.  Managers from
departmental through unit levels should be held responsible for specifying
the tasks to be performed by staff for the efficient and effective
Implementation of work plans, for the allocation of available resources in
support of those tasks, and for supervising staff performance. It is
important that they be encouraged to delegate operational responsibility
for task performance to staff and devote their time to
monitoring/supervising performance. To aid them in their supervisory
responsibilities, they should rely on their respective management teams. To
assist them in the early stages of the new system, the project should be
used to finance 12 person/months of recurrent short-term consultant
services (including the preparation of operations manuals) over a three
year period.
20.      Integration of Functions.  Under the direction of the Managing
Director, integrating the operations of UPTC should be the shared
responsibility of Management Teams at headquarters and in the field
offices.   Each and every department and field office should be managed,
not by the most senior single individual, but by a team consisting of the
heads of each sub-unit within each respective department or field office.
The most senior of these management teams should consist of the nine
departmental directors, the four senior officers reporting directly to the
Managing Director, and the Deputy Managing Director (Operations).
Although the responsibilities of these various teams throughout the UPTC
would vary in substance, all should operate, at their level, in much the
same manner. Thus, the teams should serve as the primary mechanism for
managing both the planning and management operations of UPTC as a whole.



- A3  -
ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 18
All Management Teams should meet frequently and on a regularly scheduled
basis, as appropriate, to review overall operations, agree on priority
tasks for the next period, review personnel matters, and discuss any other
topic pertinent to their respective operations. In order to provide direct
consultant services to these various management teams, the projact should
be used to finance a management expert to be resident in Kampala and
available to the various teams for two months at appropriate times during
each of the first three years of project imple,entation.
21.      Management Information System (MIS).  The various Management Teams
within the UPTC will require information, in a timely fashion, regarding
their own performance and the reciprocal relationship between that
performance and those aspects of the operational and financial performance
of other units within the institution insofar as such performance has
mutual affects. The provision of such information should be well targeted
to specific managers so as not to overload the system nor the managers
themselves. A comprehensive MIS which integrates such information and
provides it to appropriate managers in a timely and usable manner should,
as a matter of urgency, be established with UPTC. Therefore, the key
elements of and clients for the MIS should be identified as early as
possible; keeping in mind the principle that too much of the same kind of
"information, sent to all managers whether they need the specific item or
not overloads the system and results in managers ignoring the data
supplied. In order to move forward as rapidly as possible in this regard,
the project should be used to finance a total of 15 person months of short-
term consultant services to assist the Corporation to assess its specific
management information needs (3 person/months), design an overall system (3
person/mionths), design necessary software and train staff (4
person/months), evaluate and review the first phase operation of the new
system (3 person/months) and redesign the software, as necessary (3
person/months).
22.      Behavior.  Systems are established to affect individual behavior
and link those behaviors to each other in a manner calculated to maximize
the efficiency and effectiveness of institutional performance. However,
the extent to which personnel actually behave according to the assumptions
on which the system design was based is affected to a considerable extent
by the resources available and personnel and group motivations. Therefore,
UPTC's institutional development strategy addresses not only structures,
but also the design of appropriate systems, the resources necessary to
implement them, and the establishment of appropriate incentives to
adequately motivate staff.
Human Resources
23.      Three types of resources are identified in the UPTC's
institutional strategy; financial, material, and human. Consideration of
resources in this paper is limited to human resources. Thus, under UPTC's
new institutional development strategy, greater emphasis will be place on
manpower development, consisting of the following elements: (i)



- 69 -
ANNEX 13
Page ;1 of 18
rationalization of UPTC's staffing pattern; (ii) improvement of staff
technical and managerial skills; (iii) provision for sustainable capacity
through orderly transitions from one employee generation to another; and
(iv) adequate incentives to motivate staff to perform at optimal levels.
24.      Staffing.  UPTC has experienced a considerable depletion in its
overall staffing over the past several years because of the disturbed
political situation, low financial incentives, and a general freeze on
hiring. Currently, only 1,453 of the 3,536 staff positions included within
the new organizational structure are currently filled (41.1Z). An
additional 550 peLsons are employed in redundant positions carried-over
from the previous organizational structure (27.4 Z of currently employed
staff). If all of the positions included in the new organization structure
were fully staffed, approximately 1,600 new persons would need to be hired
(even assuming that most of the persons currently holding redundant
positions would be redeployed and retained within the UPTC). Further, no
assessment has been made to determine to what extent, if any, existing
employees are suitable for continued employment in UPTC nor has there been
any independent assessment of the appropriateness of the new staffing
strength. Thus, it is not self-evident that expanding the staff so as to
meet the specifications of the new organization would be fully appropriate,
in each of its details, to the mission of the UPTC. Fur"ner, even if
appropriate in some ideal theoretical sense, such a staffing target is
clearly not a viable option for the Corporation during the next five year
period of its medium-term institutional development strategy.
25.      Although, the determination of appropriate quantitative levels and
the distribution of staff and their skills within UPTC is an on-going
process which ultimately depends on both its operational requirements (as
identified in its Corporate Plans) and on the availability of resources, it
will be necessary to conduct an initial assessment of its key priority
staffing needs as soon as possible. Therefore, the initial revision of the
staffing pattern and the determination of both staffing gaps and
redundancies should be completed by June 30, 1989. A hiring freeze should
be maintained, as a temporary measure, until the results of the staffing
assessment are made available.
26.      Skills.  UPTC does not have an adequate manpower development
program. To a significant extent, the absence of a comprehensive and
appropriate manpower development program has been the cause of UPTC's poor
performance. For several years there has been no program of formal
training for new staff or refresher courses for existing employees.
Technical training on a limited scale was recently reintroduced and some
training in the financial area has been arranged with local institutions.
With the completion of a new Training Center, some limited skills training
has started or is scheduled for 1988 with instructors drawn almost
exclusively from the operations staff of the UPTC (e.g., inland telegraphy;
elementary finance and accounts; group switching centre operations;
international telephone operations, telecoms traffic and services, and
digital electronics). No assessment of the quality of that



- 7:) -
ANNEX 13
Page 12 of 18
instruction has been made in recent years nor have any of the trainers
currently offering instruction had any recent exposure to courses on
subject-matter content or pedagogical method. Thus, there is a need to
prepare a detailed training program, including training of trainers, for
the entire organization in conjunction with the staffing assessment.
27.      The various elements of the training program to be financed by the
project should be fully integrated and systematic in approach. It should
be based on a comparison of organizational needs as reflected in job
descriptions and career paths current staff skills, and available training
methodologies and course offerings. Therefore, an important activity which
ought to be completed during the first few months of project implementation
should be a staff training needs assessment and preparation of a
comprehensive training program. The needs assessment and training program
should in turn, be based on the objectives specified in the first annual
revision of the Corporate Plan.
28.      With regard to the priority skill training areas which have
already been identified,2 some reliance could be placed on formal training
abroad for some staff in key technical areas. However, in order to keep
costs within reasonable limits, provide training to a critical mass of
staff, ensure that such training is practical and directly relevant to the
operational requirements of the UPTC and Uganda, and contribute to the
development of sustainable training capacity in Uganda, the training
program should place primary emphasis on: (i) on-the-job training through
working with consultants; (ii) the offering of courses in Uganda organized
and conducted by foreign and local trainers and professors; and (iii)
establishment of an effective twinning arrangement for in-service training
and exchange of professional knowledge and experience.
29.      With reference to the twinning program, two cohorts of
approximately three UPTC staff each should travel to and work within a
"sister" telecommunications organization in another country. The
institution(s) selected should be operating more efficiently and
effectively than UPTC in an environment sharing at least some of the
technical, economic, and social characteristics of Uganda. At the same
time, comparable staff of the "sister" institution should serve in the UPTC
on an exchange basis. Further, in those cases in which employees
participate in the twinning program or receive fellowships to study abroad,
they should be required to teach their colleagues on the subject of their
assignment or fellowship once back to Ugat.da.
30.      Fellowships.  It should be noted that preparation of a training
program will require information on specific job descriptions held by
persons nominated for fellowships. In any event, considering the foreign
exchange cost, in excess of US$3.0 million, the number of proposed
2/ (i) planning and management; (ii) accounting and financial control
functions; (iii) operations maintenance; and (iv) engineering management,
project planning, design, and implementation.



71 -
ANNEX 13
Page 13 of 18
fellowships should be substantially reduced. In order to multiply the
effect of overseas training, beneficiaries should be required to teach
their colleagues on the subject of the fellowship once back to Uganda. In
addition, external professors could be invited to organize and lead
seminars on specific relevant subjects in Uganda at such institutions as
Makerere University or the UPTC training center. Finally, reliance should
be placed on an effective twinning arrangement for a significant amount of
technical and managerial in-service training and exchange of professional
knotrledgu and experience.
31.      In support of the training program, the project should be expected
to finance: 10 person/months of consultant assistance for the conduct of
the training needs assessment (4 person/months) and design of a
comprehensive training program (6 person/months); 36 person months of
trainers/professors to design specific short courses and teach those
courses and train local trainers in Uganda to provide such courses in
future , 6 different courses per year for each of four years); travel and
subsistence costs for UPTC staff and staff of at least one and no more than
two twiin institutions (to be identified prior to credit effectiveness)
while serving on reciprocal assignments; and necessary training equipment
and materials for the UPTC Training Center. It is estimated that
approximately 24 UPTC staff would participate directly in the in-service
twinning program (96 person/months, although others would also benefit from
working with the exchange staff from the "sister" institution); 50 staff
would receive fellowships for foreign training ranging in duration from
3-12 months (480 person/months); and 960 staff would benefit from short
courses offered in Uganda (960 person/months).
32.      Sustainable Capacity.  To ensure the sustainability of improved
staff capacity, it will be necessary to provide for the orderly replacement
of middle and senior level management and technical staff (upon promotion,
ret.irecment, transfer, or voluntary departure) by their subordinates over
tinme. Thus, some training should be p;ovided on an anticipatory basis;
i.e., promising candidates for promotion should be identified early and
provided with the training necessary to assure their potential future
responsibilities. That, in turn, would require specification of career
paths for each entry level occupational specialty. Anticipatory training
should niot be limited to the exact number of candidates matching projected
vacancies at the next step on the career ladder. Rather, sufficient
numbers of local candidates within UPTC should be trained to enable senior
managers to select the best candidate among those made eligible by such
training. The project should be used to finance 12 person/months of
recuri-cnt short-term consultant services to assist the Department of
Personnel and Training to identify and describe career paths for key
occupational specialities within UPTC.
33.      Irncentives.  The provision of necessary resources (inputs) for the
achievement of objectives (outputs) is not sufficient to achieve those
objectives. Appropriate actions by persons responsible for the conversion
of iiiptes into desired outputs is also necessary.  Thus, al. important



- 72 -
ANNEX 13
Page 14 of 18
element in establishing and maintaining efficient and effective operations
is the provision of an incentive package attractive enough to motivate
staff.
34.      As recognized in its Policy Statement, "the Corporation at all
times endeavors to provide financial and other incentives consistent with
the prevailing practices of other commercially oriented organizations in
Uganda." Alti-ough the specific elements of an attractive incentive package
have not yet been designed for UPTC, some general principles can be
identifieu which, in turn, can be expected to have a positive effect on
performance: (i) a salaries and benefits package which, together, provides
an income above the family subsistence level and is competitive at
equivalent positions with other comparable institutions; (ii) positive
prospects for promotions throughout a complete career linked to
performance; (iii) job descriptions for current positions, positions
further up the career ladder, and criteria for promotions; (iv) a
competitive environment among staff at the same level for promotion (but
not at the expense of team work); (v) assignment of the authority and
resources required to carry-out assigned responsibilities; (vi) a system of
formal performance evaluation of subordinates by supervisors which is
perceived as fair and objective. Thus, UPTC should provide specific
incentives compatible with these principles: (i) orientation training to
clarify, for new employees, the mission of UPTC and its objectives,
functions, structure, procedures, and the location of the employee's
position within the institution; (ii) provision of training including the
financing of job or career related evening or correspondence courses
approved in advance by the management at the initiative of staff members;
(iii) the provision of resources required for the performance of the
assigned tasks, including a clear, uncluttered, and sufficiently spacious
workplace; (iv) financial awards or certificates for employee
recommendations resulting in improved efficiences and/or effectiveness; and
(v) financial bonuses to employees who exceed their previously agreed
annual work plan targets (linked, in proportion, to the net profitability
of UPTC). Therefore, UPTC should design and establish an appropriate
incentive system (including criteria, formulas, and procedures) by June 30,
1989; including a Performance Incentive Fund. The project should be used
to finance 6 person/months of specialist assistance for the design of an
appropriate incentive package and system for the management of it.
Figure 2 (next page) illustrates how those general principles can be
applied to identify specific actions and related to specific problems.
35.      Role of Consultant Services.  As a large-scale organization which
has been considerably drained of much of its human resources, UPTC will
require consultant assistance to fully implement its institutional
rehabilitation strategy. Yet, the management of UPTC recognizes the
importance of structuring such assistance efforts in a manner consistent
with the following principles: (i) a priority objective of UPTC is to
introduce a process of sustainable institutional development which requires
that primary responsibility is assumed by its own Ugandan staff so that
they can learn through actual experience; (ii) institutional



73-
ANNEX 13
Page 15 of 18
development, as distinguished from skills training provided to individual
staff, requires a focus on a critical mass of personnel within the
organizational setting and, therefore, a focus on teams rather than
individuals; (iii) while critical immediate needs might appropriately be
met by foreign staff or local or foreign consultants in the short term,
emphasis will be placed on developing personnel capacities within UPTC in
the shortest possible time; (iv) the employment of foreign staff in line
positions or local or foreign consultants to meet immediate needs would not
be undertaken unless parallel efforts are made to provide needed assistance
for establishing sustained institutional capacity in the medium and long-
term; (v) recurrent short-term consultants would be preferable to
residential long-term assignment, unless the need for foreign staff in
management positions is clearly established; and (vi) local or regional
consultants, if qualified, would be employed whenever such services are
available at competitive costs.
36.      With srecific reference to the implementation of its institutional
development strategy, UPTC needs specialist consulting services, provided
in a manner which meets the criteria outlined above, for: (i) the review
and redesign of a new corporate planning system (6 person/months); (ii)
preparation of planning guidelines (7 person/months); (iii) the design and
conducting of annual action-planning workshops and the training of local
trainer/facilitators (32 person/months); (iv) the design of systems and
coaching of middle managers in appropriate staff and materials' management
techniques and preparation of operations manuals (12 person/months); (v)
the provision of direct consultant services to the various management teams
within UPTC on a recurrent, but non-residential, basis (6 person/months);
(vi) assessing UPTC's management information needs (3 person/months); (vii)
the design of a management information system (3 person/months); (viii) the
design of appropriate computer software for the MIS, training of staff in
its use, and evaluation, review, and redesign of software following initial.
operations (10 person/months); (ix) assisting UPTC in the conduct of a
staffing study (3 person/months); (x) conducting a training needs
assessment (4 person/months); (xi) designing a comprehensive training
program (6 person/months); (xii) the identification and description of
career paths for key occuptional specialities (12 person/months); and
(xiii) the design of an appropriate incentive package and system for the
management of it (6 person/months).



- 74 -
Annex 13
Page 16 of 18
Figure 2: Proolems and ConstraLts --
Program Resoonses and Project Actions
Problems/Constraints          Proeram Responses          Proiect Actions
1. Technical skill             l(a) Provision of         2(a)(i) Training needs
deficiencies among         training.                  assessmpnt.
executive, technical.                                 (Ui) Preparation of detailed
financial. and                                        training program.
administrative support                                (iii) Training of trainers.
staff.                                                (iv) Establish training
program.
(v) Career related evening or
correspondence courses
approved in advance by the
management at the initiative
of the staff members.
(vi) Finance 46 person months
of consultants and tra'-e:s:
24 person months of UPTC staff
in training arrangement; 50
staff fellowship for short-
term foreign training, 960
staff enrolled in in-country
short courses.
2. Inadequate availability   2(a) Refer to l(a);         2(a) (1) Refer to l(a)(i-v);
of qualified middle        3(a); and 6(a).            (ii) Refer to 3(a)(i-'ii) and
managers and                                          3d(i).
supervisory personnel                                 (iii) Refer to 6(a-c)(i)-(a).
(especially at levels
below Chief of
Departments);



- 75-
Annex 13
Page 17 of 18
ProbletAs/Constraints      Programs Responses          Project Action
3. Lack of qualified and      3(a). A salaries and       3(a)(i) Design and establish
skilled personnei          benefits package with    appropriate salaries and
available for              an income above the        benefits package; including a
employment within UPTC    family subsistence          Performance Incentive Fund.
as well as in Uganda       level and competitive    (ii) Financial awards or
due mainly to grossly      with equivalent            certificates for employee
inadequate financial       positions within other   recommendations resulting in
incentives and security   comparable                  improved efficiencies and/or
considerations.            institutions.              effectiveness; and
(iii) Financial bonuses to
employees who exceed their
previ^asly agreed annual work
plan targets (linked, in
proportion, to the net
profitability of UPTC).
4. Absence of medium and      4(a) Establish             4(a) (i) Establish rolling
long-term corporate        systematic corporate       five-year plans with annual
planning and any s7stem   planning system and         revisions.
linking corporate          capacity.                  ($$) Disaggregate plans into
plaslnng, budgeting,                                  annual departmental and sub-
and management                                        departmental work plans.
information.                                          (iii) Establish a 'Planning
Cycle.'
(iv) Finance 6 person months
of consultant assistance.
5. Lack of established        5(a) Establish an          5(a)(i) Identify management
(and systeL;stic)          effective Management       information needs by specific
procedures for             Information System         clients, type of data, and
coordination and           (MIS).                     timing requirements.
information sharing                                   (ii) Design appropriate
among and between                                     system.
departments and between                               (iii) Training staff in use of
divisions in                                          system.
depa;tm,nts;                                          (iv) Finance 15 person months
of consultant assistance and
related equipment
requirements.



- 76 -
Annex 13
Page 18 of 1l
Problems/Constraints       Programs Responses         Proiect Action
6. Lack of staff              6(a). Positive            6(a-c)(i) Identify key
motivation due to low      prospects for             elements of an incentive
salaries, which are a      promotions throughout    system appropriate and
consequence of             a complete career         feasible within the particular
difficult macro-           linked to performance.   circumstances of UPTC.
economic situation,        (b) A competitive         (ii) Design and establish
non-availability of        environment among         integrated incentives package.
operating and              staff at the same         (d) (i) Refer to 3(a) (i-iif);
maintenance materials      level for promotion       3 (b) (i) - 3 (d) (i).
and inadequate             (but not at the
training,                  expense of team work);
(c) A system of formal
performance evaluation
of subordinates by
supervisors which is
perceived as fair and
objective.
'd) refer to 3(a-b).
7. Low awareness of the       7(a) Job descriptions    7a(i) Preparation of job
business objectives of    which include              descriptions.
the institution,           appropriate references   (ii) )rientation training to
especially among the       to commercial             clarify, for new employees,the
lower level                orientation.              mission of UPTC and its
headquarter's and field                              objectives, functions,
staff.                                               structure, procedures, and the
location of the employee's
position within the
institutiont
(iii) Evaluation of relevant
staff performance, using
commercial orientation as
criteria, among others.
(iv) Refer to l(a) (v), 3(a)
(iii) and 3 (d) (i).



- 77 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 8
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
FOR
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1.       The principal task of consulting services in support of the UPTC's
institutional development program is to improve its efficiency and
effectiveness on a sustainable basis over the medium-term (refer to
"Institutional Development Strategy" attached). Although the need for
significant levels of technical assistance is recognized as necessary by
the management of UPTC, such assistance efforts will be consistent with the
following principles:
(a)   Primary responsibility will be assumed by UPTC's own Ugandan
staff so that they can learn through actual experience;
(b)   For institutional development purposes, the consultants will
focus on assisting UPTC staff teams rather than individuals;
(c)   Emphasis will be placed on developing personnel capacities
within UPTC in the shortest possible time;
*d)   Employment of foreign staff in line positions or local or
foreign consultants to meet immediate needs will be
undertaken only if parallel- efforts are made to provide
needed assistance for establishing sustained institutional
capacity in the medium and long-term;
(e)   Recurrent short-term assignments, rather than residential
long-term, will be the norm except when the need for foreign
staff in management positions is clearly established; and
(f)   Local or regional consultants, if qualified, will be
employed whenever such services are available at competitive
costs.
2.       Therefore, except where specifically identified to the contrary,
UPTC managers shall be solely responsible for the assessment of consultant
findings and recommendations and decisions taken as a conbequence.



Annex 14
-78-                         Page 2 of 8
I. Scope of Work
3.       Specifically, consultants will assist UPTC managers and staff to:
(i) assess institutional requirements, design appropriate changes in
structure, systems, and procedures; (ii) establish such changes; and (iii)
provide both formal and informal on-the-job training to UPTC staff teams in
each of the following seven areas:
(a)   Corporate planning;
(b)   Supervision of staff and resource management;
(c)   Integration of functions;
(d)   Management information (MIS);
(e)   Human Resource Development;
(f)   Billing and collections; and
(g)   Accounting and audit.
II. Consultant's Proposal
4.       Consultants will make their own assessment of che actual services
required. Consultants shall indicate in their proposzl the following for
each of the tasks:
(a)   Total personmonths proposed to be employed;
(b)   Person (or persons) proposed to be employed indicating the
curriculum vitae(s) and period for which each will be
available;
(c)   Bar chart including the proposed dates of commencement and
completion of each task, including (where appropriate)
period of review, preparation of proposals, implementation
of proposals, training of UPTC staff, the availability of
personnel for the task both in UPTC headquarters and in the
field in Uganda;
(d)   Detailed work program;
(e)   Program for transfer of skills and know-how and training of
UPTC staff; and
(f)   Provision of resources (including personnel) and facilities
expected from UPTC specific to each task.



- 79 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 8
III. Language
5.       Erglish shall be the governing language in respect of this
assignment. All consulting personnel shall be fluent in English. All
reports, communication and presentations shall be in English.
IV. Corporate Planning
6.       The Consultant shall assist the Department of Corporate Planning,
Marketing, and Information systems to: (i) review and redesign of a new
corporate planning system; (ii) prepare planning guidelines; and (iii)
design and conduct annual action-planning workshops and train local
trainer/facilitators to enable them to conduct such workshops on an annual
basis in future. In addition, the Consultant will provide the following
services to the UPTC with regard to: (i) five-year rolling plans; (ii)
annual plan revisions; and (iii) the management of the planning process.
Five Year Rolling Plan
7.       The Consultant shall assist the UPTC to prepare a five year
rolling plan and annual revisions. The five year plan will include an
explicit statement of the Corporation's business objectives and financial
projections, as well as annual budgets which reflect those objectives. The
plan will be based on estimated:
(a)   Customer demand by type of service required;
(b)   Distribution of demand among categories of potential
customers and their locations;
(c)   Financial, human, and fixed physical resources available to
UPTC;
(d)   Proposed capital expenditure on rehabilitation and/or
improvement of existing infrastructure and new facilities;
and
(e)   Manpower development and training programs.
8.       The plan will establish:
(a)   Priorities among clients (by type) and geographical
location;
(b)   Aggregate investment targets linked to those priorities;
(c)   Sources of funds (internally generated cash, equity and loan
capital);



- 80 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 8
(d)   Non-financial resource requirements (eg., personnel by
number and distribution within the staffing pattern,
facilities, and equipment); and
(e)   Assignment of specific task responsibilities to specified
departments and ianits within the organization.
Annual Plan Revisions
9.       The annual revision of the five year rolling plan will be the
principal instrument for an on-going review of UPTC's operations and
institutional development. In that regard, the Consultant will assist the
UPTC to:
(a)   Determine its funding needs in relation to its projected
growth and prepare its revised budget for the following
year;
(b)   Determine its operating requirements based on inputs
provided by the operating units at headquarters, as well as
in the field;
(c)   Identify the assumptions and strategies incorporated into
its operating and investment programs;
(d)   Amalgamate its annual plans into the medium-term projections
of its five year rolling plan;
(e)   Prepare a constructive critique of aggregate institutional
performance in suzi key functional areas as customer
service, bill co!' .tion, financial write-offs,
administrative  v,sts, staffing and performance evaluations,
and manpower development antd training activities; and
(f)   Identify any changes in agreed investment targets and
operating programs to ensure the financial viability of
UPTC.
Management of the Planning Process
10.      The planning process will be based on inputs from UPTC managers at
all levels. To give practical effect to the corporate five-year and annual
plans, they will be disaggregated into annual departmental and sub-
departmental work plans. The Consultant will assist the Department of
Corporate Planning, Marketing, and Information Systems to develop a
"Planning Cycle;" including the preparation of planning guidelines and the
design and conduct of the first three annual series of action-planning
workshops.



- 81 -                   ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 8
V. Supervision Of Staff And Resource Management
11.      To improve UPTC's management of both human and material resources,
the Consultant shall:
(a)   Assist the Departments of Personnel and Training and
Corporate Services to (i) design systems, (ii) coach middle
managers in appropriate staff and materials' management
techniques, (iii) and prepare operations manuals; and
(b)   Provide management consultant services to the various
management teams within UPTC on a recurrent, but non-
residential, as required basis.
VI. Integration Of Functions
12.      The Consultant shall make a management consultant available to the
various management teams within the UPTC, for two months at appropriate
times during each of the first three years of project implementation, to
assist teams in establishing criteria and procedural systems for the
resolution of management issues which cut across departmental and/or unit
boundaries.
VII. Management Information (MIS)
13.      The various Management Teams within the UPTC will require
information, in a timely fashion, regarding their o-wn performance and the
reciprocal relationship between that performance and those aspects of the
operational and financial performance of other units within the institution
insofar as such performance has mutual affects. The Consultant shall
assist the Departmernt of Corporate Planning, Marketing, and Information to:
(a)   Assess UPTC's management information needs;
(b)   Identify the key elements and clients of the MIS;
(c)   Design an appropriate management information system which
(i) integrates necessary information, (ii) provides it to
appropriate managers in a timely and usable manner, and
(iii) is well targeted to specific managers so as not to
overload the system nor the managers themselves; and
(d)   Design appropriate c')mputer software for the MIS, train
staff in its use, and evaluate, review, and redesign
software following initial operations.
VIIII. Human Resource Development
14.      The Consultant shall keep in mind at all times that the ultimate
purpose of its services is to improve the internal efficiency and
effectiveness of UPTC staff in order to improve the institutinnal capacity
of the Corporation. The transfer of knowledge from the Consultant to UPTC



- 82 -                       ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 8
shall comprehensively include the skill required to carry-out, on a
sustainable basis into the medium and long-term, the various functions
required in each functional areas including technical, managerial and
procedural aspects.
15.      The Consultant shall establish and maintain a system of project
files and records suitable for planning and managing a post and
telecommunications corporation of UPTC's scope within the context of
current and projected Ugandan conditions. The project files and records
shall be catalogued and accessible to UPTC and shall be turned over to UPTC
in an orderly and timely fashion upon project completion or upon
termination of the Consultant's contract.
16.      In addition, the Consultant shall assist UPTC to:
(a)   Conduct a study of UPTC's staff resources (including a
census of numbers, grades, and skills) compared to its
staffing pattern;
(b)   Adjust the staffing pattern to  feasible proportions in
terms of staff currently available and likely to be
available within financial resource constraints;
(c)   Identify and describe career paths for key occupational
specialities (including job regrading, if appropriate);
(d)   Conduct a training needs assessment;
(e)   Design a comprehensive training program (including both
formal and informal on-the-job training in Uganda and other
countries); and
(f)   Design and establish an appropriate incentive package and
system (including criteria, formulas, and procedures) by
198.., including a Performance Incentive Fund, and
taking into account the attitudes of staff in the specific
Ugandan context.
IX. Consultant's Responsibilities
17.      The Consultant is responsible to UPTC for providing the services
described in these Terms of Reference, and any additional services that may
be deemed necessary and appropriate to achieve the objectives of the
project within the timeframe and budget allocated.
18.      The Consultant shall prepare a Project Implementation Plan that
describes the program of consultant services necessary to meet the scope of
work specified below. The Project Implementation Plan will logically
divide the project into manageable components and schedules for sound
implementation. The plan will define and schedule the allocation of



- 83 -                     ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 8
equipment and manpower provided by the Consultant. The plan shall be
subject to approval and shall permit the schedule and budget of consultant
services to be effectively monitored and tracked.
19.      The Consultant shall assign a Project Manager to assume overall
responsibility for the quality of the performance of their employees
assigned to the project. The Project Manager will be stationed at the
Consultant's corporate headquarters and will visit the UPTC in Uganda at
periodic intervals as agreed among UPTC and the World Bank.
20.      The Consultant shall develop an awareness of all relevant
constraints and opportunities within the Ugandan context which could affect
timely implementation of the project.
21.      The Consultant shall provide UPTC with adequate lead times for
documentation approval and preparation of necessary materials, etc., for
effective implementation of the institutional development strategy.
22.      The Consultant is responsible for submitting recommendations to
the responsible UPTC managers in a timely fashion and the UPTC is
responsible for providing timely responses to those recommendations in
accordance with the requirements of Section I.
23.      The Consultant shall provide reports at the completion of each
visit to Uganda or semi-annually; whichever is the shorter period of time.
24.      The Consultant shall follow all applicable UPTC policies and
procedures. If any of these policies or procedures impact project
implementation, then the Consultant shall recommend suitable changes.
25.      The Consultant shall assist UPTC in the preparation of any
documents pertaining to those elements of the project to which they are
assigned.
26.      Under the terms of this contract the Consultant shall be solely
responsible for the work of the Consultant's employees.
27.      The Consultant is responsible for informing the UPTC in a timely
fashion of any and all conditions, or charges, or other factors that occur
or appear likely to occur, which jeopardize the budget, schedule, or
quality of the project.
28.      In the event that delays occar in the implementation of the
project, the Consultant shall act, or propose action, as necessary to
localize and minimize the impact of these delays on the project.



- 84 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 8 of 8
29.      The Consultant is responsible for informing the UPTC in a timely
fashion of any and all conditions, or changes, or other factors that occur
or appear likely to occur, which jeopardize the budget, schedule, or
quality of the project.
30.      In the event that delays occur in the implementation of the
project, the Consultant shall act, or propose action, as necessary to
localize and minimize the impact of these delays on the project.



- 85 -
Annex 15
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
UPTC - NUMBER OF STAFF POSITIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31
1985           1986              1987
Management                      14              14               14
Headquarters
- telecommunications        161                              170
- postal                      7                               10
- savings bank               25                               30
- common                    103                              120
Subtotal             296                              330
Zones
- telecommunications      1,100                            1  3
- postal                    422                              124
- savings bank              125                                _
- common                     92                              160
Subtotal           1,739                            1,792
Grand Total        2,049           2,173            2,136



- 86 -
.AN1EX 16
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Twinning Arrangements
1.       As an important part of UPTC's institutional development program,
the UPTC will establish a twinning arrangement with one or more other
telecommunications organizatz. as. The institution(s) selected will have a
record of performing more efficiently and effectively than UPTC in a
country sharing at least some of the technical, economic, and social
characteristics of Uganda.
Purpose
2.       The purpose of the twinning arrangement(s) is to: (i) provide
practical on-the-job training and experience to key UPTC managerial and
technical staff; (ii) benefit from the involvement of more experienced
staff from the twin institution(s) in the operations of UPTC; and (iii)
establish a sustainable relationship with another similar institution(s) so
as to benefit from their expertise over the longer-term.
Rationale
3.       By pairing UPTC with one or more twin organizations, it will
benefit from the on-going experience of a more successful, but similar
organization(s). Through such an arrangement, UPTC will be able to
supplement the more conventional consulting services it will be provided
(Annex 14) in support of its institutional development strategy (Annex 13).
For some purposes (eg., mid-career on-the-job training for technical field
staff, planners, and line supervisors), the provision of operational
expertise through twinning arrangements offers distinct advantages over
more common forms of technical assistance (e.g.. it is practical, directly
relevant to tasks to be performed within the UPTC, and is provided in a
mutually collegial manner).
Scope
4.       Fields.  The UPTC twinning arrangement will provide for the
exchange of staff in the following fields: (i) corporate planning; (ii)
billing and collection; (iii) customer service; and (iv) network operations
and maintenance. The selection of specific UPTC staff nominated for
participation in the exchange program will be done in the context of the
requirements of UPTC's manpower and institutional development program.



- 87 -                        ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
5.       Manpower.  It is estimated that approximately 24 UPTC staff will
participate directly in the twinning program. However, other UPTC staff
will also benefit from working with the staff members of the twin
institution(s) assigned to work in UPTC as part of the exchange
arrangement. Each UPTC staff member participating directly in the exchange
program will be assigned to a specific job, most closely related to his/her
own, within the staffing pattern of the twin organization(s). It is
estimated that the term of such assignments will average four months. No
more than one UPTC staff will be assigned to the same organizational unit
within the twin sgency(ies) at the same time. On a reciprocal basis, a
staff member of the twin organization(s) will be assigned to perform
similar duties within UPTC to those of his normal assignment at his own
institution. Whenever possible, the mutual exchange of personnel between
UPTC and its twin institution(s) will be on a direct replacement basis; the
staff of UPTC and the twin institution(s) will directly replace each other
in their respective jobs during the period of the exchange. In addition,
UPTC staff who participate directly in the exchange program will required
to teach their colleagues on the subject of their assignmen.t once back to
Uganda.
Management
6.       Nominations of UPTC staff as candidates for assignment to the twin
institution(s) will be made by unit level supervisors and endorsed by
department directors. The nomination form prepared by the unit level
supervisor will provide specific information on the relevance of the
nomination to the requirements of UPTC's overall manpower and institutional
development plans. Following endorsement by department directors,
candidates will be selected for nomination to the twin institution(s) by
UPTC's Managing Director. Each nomination will include a statement of
UPTC's desired objectives for the specific assignment. If the scope of the
assignment and the specific candidate is acceptable to the twin
organization, it will specify the terms of the assignment in turn and
identify a member of its own staff which it nominates to the UPTC in
exchange. That information will be communicated to the UPTC for approval
by the relevant departmental director and unit supervisor. Following the
mutual approvals of the candidates and the terms of the assigr.ment for the
exchange, timing and logistical details will be arranged on behalf of the
UPTC by the Department of Personnel and Training: which will also be
responsible for the day-to-day administration Ot the exchange.
7.       At the completion of each assignment, a performance evaluation
report, according to a format prepared in advance and mutually acceptable
to both UPTC and the twin institution, will be prepared by the immediate
supervisor in the host institution for each person participating directly
in the exchange program. That evaluation report will be placed in the
personnel file of the UPTC staff and made available to the staff's
supervisors within UPTC.
8.       Copies are attached of an outline of possible contract provisions
for twinning arrangements; including a sample format for a letter



-88 -                         ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
from a foreign utility (the supplier) to a local utility (the client)
confinming the nature of a twinning arrangement and a sample format for a
letter in response from the local utility (extracted from Lauren Cooper,
The Twinning of Institutions: Its Use As A Technical Assistance Delivery
System, World Bank Technical Paper Number 23, 1984).
Budget
9,       The budget in support of the twinning arrangement will finance the
travel and subsistence costs for participating UPTC staff and overhead
costs, honoraria, travel and subsistence costs for staff of the twin
organization(s).
Selection of Twin Institution(s,
10.      Criteria for selecting an appropriate twin institution(s) for the
UPTC will include, but not be limited, to the following:
(a),   Motivation - the reasons for the potential twin's interest
in entering the relationship and its stake in its success;
(b).   Skills - use of appropriate specialized expertise and
technical systems (using the same type of equipment) in the
twin's own work;
(c).   Institutional Development Experience and Interest - the
extent to which the twin has completed or is in an advanced
stage of its own institutional development program, its
prior experience in providing institutional development
assistance to other post and telecommunications
institutions, and its interest in sharing that experience;
(d).   Consulting Capacity - the ability and interest of the twin
to provide appropriate on-the-job feedback and training to
UPTC assigned to them for short-term periods;
(e).   Environment - the degree to which the twin institution
operates in an environment similar, at least in some
respects, to the cultural, political, ecological, and
social conditions of Uganda.



- 89 -
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECCuQUNICATI IOS CORPORATION                                                                 ANNEX 17
INC0kE STATEIENT
For the period ending December 31
(In U$S mllilon)                                                                JULY1 - JUNE 30
DEC      DEC      JUN
1985    1988      1987       1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91    1991-92   1992-93
(12 Mos.)(12 Mos.)(6 Mos.)
Telephone Revenues:
ConnectIon                       0.00     0.02       0.00       0.11       0.10       0.15       0.23       0.29      0.31
Rental                           0.05     0.07       0.00       0.14       0.11       0.12       0.13       0.15      0.17
Local Calls                      0.61     4.57       6.06      16.67      12.95      14.41      17.43      19.90    22.62
Trunk Calls
Internatlonal Calls              1.90    6.54        0.91      10.00      10.65      11.86      13.99      16.38     18.62
Less: Net Outpayments            1.30      1.47      1.57       3.17       3.38       3.76       4.43       5.19      5.90
Total Telepona Revenues          1.26     9.73       5.40      23.75      20.44      22.78      27 35      31.53     35.82
Telex Revenues:
Connection                       0.00     0.02       0.00       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.11       0.15      0.11
Rental       .                   0.02     0.03       0.00       0.07       0.07       0.07       0.09       0.13      0.15
Calls                            0.81     4.05       1.03       4.51       4.82       5.17       6.16       8.06      9.92
Less: Net Outpayments            0.20     0.97       0.43       1.00       1.06       1.14       1.36       1.77      2.18
Total Telex Revenues             0.63     3.13       0.60       3.60       3.85       4.12       5.00       6.57      8.00
Postal                           0.27     0.78       0.15       0.27       0.27       0.40       0.43       0.46      0.50
Other                            0.07     0.23       0.11       0.20       0.20       0.30       0.32       0.33      0.34
Total Revenues                   2.23    13.87       6.26      27.82      24.76      27.60      33.10      38.89     44.66
OperatIng Costs:
Staff                            0.64      1.62      0.38       3.19       4.08       4.72       5.58       6.57      7.60
MaIntenance                       1.45    3.06       0.43       2.25       3.23       4.84       7.26       7.99      8.78
Adbinlstratlon 1/                0.00    0.00        0.23        1.67      1.61       1.30        1.37       1.43      1.50
Subtotal                         2.09     4.68        1.02      7.11       8.92      10.86       14.21      15.99     17.88
Inflatlon AdJustment             5.04     0.00       1.41       0.'O0      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Depreciatlon                     0.58     0.89        1.06      2.34       4.28       4.28       5.27        6.80     7.32
Bad Oebt Provision               0.65     2.66       0.07       1.19       1.02       1.14        1.37       1.58      1.79
Stock Obsolescence               0.79     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Operating Costs                  9.15     8.23       3.56      10.64      14.22      16.28      20.84      24.37     27.49
Income Before Interest          (6.92)    5.64       2.70      17.18      10.54      11.32      12.26      14.52     17.17
Interest Expense                 1.53     0.72       0.10       2.36       2.97       4.16       5.76       7.41      8.80
Income Tax                          -        -       0.05       8.90       4.54       4.30       3.90       4.27      5.02
NET INCOAE   ,                   (8.45)    4.92       2.55      5.93       3.03       2.87        2.60       2.84      3.35
1/ 1988-89 (2.61 to 1.61)



- 90 -
UGANDA POSTS AN) TELECOWMJNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)                                                              ANNEX 18
FORECASTED BALANCE SHEET
As of Oecember 31
(In USS million)
JULY 1 - JUNE 30
DEC      DEC       JUN       --
1985     1986      1987       1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91    1991-92   1992-93
(12 Mos.)(12 Mos.)(6 Mos.)
ASSETS:
Gross Fixed Assets                13.23    14.18      46.81      85.57      85.57      105.31     136.09     156.39    176.49
Accum Depreclation                4.46      5.35       6.41       8.75      13.03       17.31      22.57      29.38     37.20
Net Fixed Assets                  8.77      8.83      40.40      76.82      72.54      88.00      113.52     127.01    139.29
Work In Progress                                                            19.74      30.78       20.30      20.10     14.50
Investments                       0.08     0.05       0.03        0.03       0.03       0.03       5.78       12.38     19.98
8.85     8.88      40.43      76.85      92.31      118.81     139.60     159.49    173.77
Stores                            0.67    14.60       12.45      17.70      17.70      17.70       17.70      17.70     17.70
Accounts Receivable
Telephone and Telex             2.22    17.11       31.72      38.44      28.02      29.31       25.19      19.89     12.61
Staff L.ans                     0.00      0.62       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50        0.50       0.50      0.50
Prepayments                     2.95      0.19       0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10        0.10       0.10      0.10
Cash and Bank Balances            0.88      3.71       0.85      (1.14)      5.99       (3.42)     (1.26)      3.01      9.88
Total Current Assets              6.72    36.23       45.62      55.60      52.31      44.19       42.23      41.20     40.79
TOTAL ASSETS                     15.57    45.11       86.05     132.45     144.62     163.00      181.82     200.70    214.56
LIABILITIES:
Goverrnent Contribution         2.03      2.03      31.59      31.59      31.59      31.59       31.59      31.59     31.59
Accum. Profit/Loss             (9.02)   (1.72)       0.83       6.76       9.79      12.65       15.25      18.10     21.44
Reserves                        2.47      2.47       7.71      43.82      43.82      43.82       43.82      43.82     43.82
Total Equity                   (4.52)    2.78       40.13      82.17      85.20      88.06       90.66      93.51     96.85
Loans                          11.17    22.61       23.99      28.35      37.73      54.71       73.18      91.45    104.12
Creditors and Accruals          3.92    19.72       21.93      21.93      21.69      20.23       17.98      15.74     13.59
Total LIABILITIES                15.57    45.11       86.05     132.45     144.62     163.00      181.82     200.70    214.56



- 91 -
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOW4JNICATIONS CCRPORAT ION (UPTC)                                                             ANNEX 19
FUNOS FLOW STATEUENT
for period enIng
(In USS million)
JULY 1 - JUNE 30
DEC      OEC       JUN
1985     1986      1987       1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91    1991-92   1992-93
(12 Mos.)(12 Mos.)(6 Mos.)
Sources of Funds
Net Profit/Loss for the year   (8.45)    4.92        2.55       5.93       3.03        2.87       2.60       2.84      3.35
AdJ. for non-cash Items:
Depreciation                  0.58     0.89        1.06       2.34       4.28        4.28       5.27       6.80      7.82
Reserves and Funds            0.25     0.00        5.24       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
.Prlor Year Adjustment          2.76     2.38       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Int. Cash Gsneratlon/DepletIon   (4.88)    8.19       8.85        8.27       7.30       7.14        7.87       9.65     11.17
Other Sources of Funds
Loans                         2.49    11.44        1.38       4.36       9.38       16.98      18.47      18.27      12.67
Governnent Contributlon      (0.25)    0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Funds AvalI./Depleted    (2.62)   19.63       10.23      12.63      16.68       24.12      26.34      27.92     23.84
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Purchase of Flxed Assets        2.49      0.93       3.05       2.65      19.74       30.78      26.05      26.70      22.10
Inc./Dec. In Working Capital
Stores                        0.53    13.93       (2.15)      !i.25
Debtors                      (0.84)   12.74       14.40       6.72     (10.42)       1.29      (4.12)     (5.30)    (7.28)
Creditors                    (5.53) *(10.80)      (2.21)      0.00       0.24        1.46       2.25       2.24       2.15
Cash on Hand and at Bank      0.73      2.83      (2.86)     (1.99)      7.12       (9.41)      2.16       4.28       6.87
Total Funds Applied            (2.62)   19.63       10.23      12.63      16.68       24.12      26.34      27.92      23.84
FINANCIAL RATIOS                                                                   JLY 1 - JUNE 30
DEC      DEC       JUN
1985     1986      1987       1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91    1991-92   1992-93
(12 IMs.)(12 Mms.)(6 Mos.)
Rate of Return                              64.1X      21.91      29.3X       14.11      14.1X      12.2S       12.1X     12.9X
Debt Equlty Ratlo                           0.89       0.37       0.26       0.31        0.38       0.45       0.49       0.52
Current Ratio (tines)                       1.84       2.08       2.54       2.41        2.18       2.35        2.62      3.00



- 92 -
ANNEX 20
Page I of 2
UCANDA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
FINACIL PROJECTIONS
Notes and Assumgtions
Projections for consolidated postal and telecommunications
operations are based on the following assumptions:
Income Statement
1.       Telephone revenues are calculated by average working lines
times the average earnings per working line estimated at US$950.
Traffic/DEL are assumed to increase by 102 p.a.
2.       Telex revenues are calculated by the average number of
working lines times the average income per line of US$6124 (1987 actual
income of US$4.4 million divided' by average working line of 712).
3.       Postal revenues are projected at US$0.27 from 1987-88 to
1988-89 and assumed to increase 482 in 1989-90 and 72 thereafter.
4.       Other revenues are projected to remain at its 1987 level of
US$0.2 million in 1988-89 and estimated to increase by 5O0 in
1989-90, 62 in 1990-91 and 32 thereafter.
5.       Staff expenses:  staff costs from 1988-89 to 1992-93 are
projected to increase at a rate of 102 per annum to cover for the
increase in staff cost of existing staff and incremental increase of
additional staff of approximately 100 per year between 1987-88 and
1989-90 and 150 per year thereafter.
6.       Maintenance expenses are_projected to increase at 502 per
annum between 1989-90 and 1990-91- and 102 thereafter.
7.       Administration expenses are projected to decrease slightly in
1988-89 and decrease by 19Z in 1989-90. Thereafter an increase of 52 per
annum is estimated for the remainder of the review period.
8.       Depreciation expenses are calculated on a straight line
basis at 51 of gross fied assets in operation each year.
9.       Bad Debts are projected at 52 of total telephone revenues.
10.      Interest on credits are projected at the rate of about 9Z.
Balance Sheet
11.      Fixed assets reflect the investment program and transfers
from work in progress.



ALNEX 20
Page 2 of 2
12.      Stores have been projected to reflect the expected increase
in stocks for the materials for both the plant and civil works
project during the project under review.
13.      Accounts receivables are estimated to decrease by
approximately 27? in 1988-89 and marginally increase the following
fiscal year. Thereafter, reduction in overdue accounts is projected
at about 14? in 1990-91. 212 in 1991-92 and about 37? in 1992-93.
These projections reflect the increase in telephone usage when ISD is
introduced and improvement in the collection efforts by UPTC.
14.      Staff loans and Prepayments are kept at a constant level
between 1987-88 and 1992-93.
15.      Government Contribution:  actual contribution by the
government as of June 30, 1987 was US$31.59 millon. These
contributions are not expected to increase and, therefore, this level
is maintained throughout the review period.
16.      Reserves:  the net increase in reserves in 1987-88
is made up of revaluation of assets from US$0.56 million to about
US$36.67 million at June 1988.
17.      Loans are made up of IDA and French Protocal loa.ns.
18.      Creditors and Accruals include international outpayments for
both telephone and telex services. It also includes local accrued
charges of about US$0.23 assumed to remain at this level until June
1993.
p



- 94 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of UPTC Tariffs - Current at the date of appraisal:- */
and before May 15, 1987:- **/
TELEPHONE SERVICE
Current              Pre-15th May 1987
Installation Deposit                     1,627.00                  120,000.00
Connection Charge                        2,000.00                   125,000.00
Rental, per quarter                        900.00                    66,000.00
Call charges:
local, untimed                            10.00                       500.00
STD, unit fee
long distance, per minute      Subscriber dialed            Operator assisted
Current   Pre-15th May       Current  Pre-lSth May
Charge        1987           Sharge        1987
30- 60 km                20.00      1,500.00           25.00     1,800.00
60-150 km                60.00      3,000.00           65.00     3,600.00
150-230 km                90.00      4,500.00           95.00     5,400.00
230-350 km               120.00      6,000.00          125.00     7,200.00
350-510 km               150.00      7,500.00          155.00     9,000.00
510-700 km               180.00      9,000.00          185.00    10,800.00
over 700 km               210.00    '0,500.00           215.00    12,600.00
International, per minute
Current   Pre-15th May
Charge        1987
India                     255.00      6,000.00
Kenya (Nairobi)           160.00      5,000.00
Sudan                     225.00      6,000.00
T nzania (Dar es Salaam) 160.00       5,000.00
Zaire                     255.00      8,000.00
Europe                    225.00      7,000.00
Note:  */  Tariffs have been adjusted following the recent U Sh devaluation.
**/ On May J5, 1987 1 new U Sh - 100 old U Sh



- 95 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 3
TELEX SERVICE
Current     Pre-15th May
Charge           1987
w.e.f. 15.5.87
Installation Deposit        20,600.00   1,000,000.00
Connection Charge           25,000.00   1,200,000.00
Rental, per quarter         15,000.00      750,000.00
Domestic call charges,           60.00         500.00
per 3 minutes
Metered, unit fee                20.00           -
Operator assisted
0- 60 km               65.00        1,500.00
60-230 km              160.00        3,800.00
230-510 km              365.00        5,400.00
over 510 km                -           8,500.00
International call charges, per minute
(three minute m;- ,am)
India                     380.00         9,000.00
Kenya (Nairobi)           380.00         9,000.00
Sudan                     510.00        12,000.00
POSTAL SERVICE
Current     Pre-15th May, 1987
Rental of private letter       600.00       15,000.00
box, per month
Surface mail      Airmail        Aerogram
(max 20 grams) (each 10 grams) (single form)
Inland letters
minimum charge Current/   5.00/200.00       5.00/100.00      2.00/100.00
Pre 15th May, 1987
International letters
minimum charge
Africa                    50.00/1,200.00   70.00/1,600.00   30.00/800.00
Europe and Asia           70.00/1,400.00   90.00/2,000.00   30.00/800.00
Rest of the world             90.00/1,600.00  100.00/2,400.00   30.00/1,000.00



- 96 -
ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3
TELEGRAPH SERVICE
Inland telegrams, per word
Ordinary                   5.00/100.00
Urgent                    10.00/200.00



- 97 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.       UPTC's investment program through FY93/94 of which the IDA
financed project is an integral part, also includes ongoing works financed
by other donors and planned activities for which financing has yet to be
firmed.  Thus, any attempt to separate the benefits of project and non-
proje % investments would be arbitrary. Therefore, the rate of return is
calculated on the basis of UPTC's entire telecommunications investment
program.
2.       The benefit period of the program is from FY88/89 through
FY2007/2008, the average useful life of the equipment provided under the
project. Without the program, the existing network would deteriorate,
resulting in lower revenues and higher costs. The rate of return
calculations, however, assume that without the program, the revenue and
operating costs will remain at the 88/89 levels. The benefits of the
program, resulting from installation of new lines and higher traffic on
existing lines, are assumed to be the incremental revenue with respect to
1988/89 level. Similarly, the operating costs attributed to the program
are assumed to be incremental costs (except for some minor adjustments)
since FY88/89. From FY93/94, when the entire investment program, except
for some minor items, is expected to be complete, incremental benefits and
operating costs are assumed to be constant. For the purpose of the
calculations residual value of the items financed under the program is
assumed to be nil.



- 98 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 3
3.         A summary of the program's incremental costs and benefits is given
below in US$ million
Incremental Costs and Benefits of the Program
(in US$ million)
Operating            Incromental    Incremental            Incremental
Program  Cost and  Operating   Operating      Operating      Net     Operating       Net
FY    Costs   Taxes       Revenue  Costs A Taxes   Revenue   Benefits    Costs          Benefits
1989  (12.8)    14.48      24.76                                (12.30)                  (12.30)
1990  (20.8)    16.30      27.60         (1.67)        2.84     (19.63)      (1.46)      (19.41)
1991  (20.3)    19.48       33.10       (4.20)         8.34     (16.16)      (3.67)      (16.63)
1992  (20.1)    21.84      d8.89        (6.69)        14.13     (12.66)      (G.97)      (11.94)
1993  (14.6)    24.69      44.66         (9.63)       19.90      (4.23)      (8.29)       (2.89)
1994   (2.6)    27.84      49.16        (12.78)       24.39       9.01       (9.64)       12.15
1996           27.84       49.16        (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
1996            27.84      49.15        '12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
1997            27.84      49.16       (12.78)        24.39      11.81       (9.64)       14.76
1998           27.84       49.16        (12.78)       24.39      11.81       (9.64)       14.76
1999           27.84       49.16        (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2000            27.84       49.16       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2001            27.84      49.16        (12.78)       24.39      11.81       (9.64)       14.76
2002            27.84       49.16       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2003            27.84      49.16        (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2004            27.84       49.1E       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2006            27.84       49.16       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2006            27.84       49.16       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.75
2007            27.84       49.16       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
2008            27.84       49.16       (12.78)       24.39      11.61       (9.64)       14.76
10.6U                    14.3%
Financial Rate of Return    Economic rate of Return
4.         The internal financial rate of return of the program is estimated
to be 10.6? and the projected economic rate of return is 14.3X.   These
calculations understate the overall benefits to be derived from the
investment program in as much as they do not take into account consumer
surplus and external benefits to non users of the telecommunications
services provided by UPTC.



_ 99 _
ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 3
5.       A sensitivity analysis carried out of the above financial and
economic rates of return indicates the following:
Sensitivity Analysis on Rates of Return
Fin-ncial            Economic
Component                     Change     Rate  : Return       Rate of Return
a)  Program Costs              +10%            9.1                 12.6
-10?           12.4                 16.3
b)  Operating Costs            +10Z            8.8                 13.0
-102          12.4                  15.6
c)  Revenues                   +10Z           18.5                 21.7
-10?            2.1                  6.7
d)  Combination - All Costs  +10X)
- Revenues   -10?)          -4.9                   0.9
e)  Combination - All Costs  -10Z)
- Revenues   +10?)          26.1                  29.5



NOTES



MAP SECTION



  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 68
N  SUDAN      k    ETHIOPIA 
K                                ~~~~~~~S   u    D   A    N                                                      /. 
S J(ANDA\
-    /   KENYA                                                                                                              .'/
71A Ir Liv
SURtratiiS  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~K   E   NVYA
TANZANIA       '
UGANDA                         10                          \            .....
TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK/N
1~1T. l  Awiomalic telephoto esohange                                                   k
O  aettelephon ...chonge
A   Distan subscrbers                              [.Mrl
7'  Sorelhie eartIhstio                                                                                                                                                                                        oov
.VHF- UHF/Ichannels
* Overhead lines/ -cccsN
Mrhar main road,                                                                                                                                                                                                2  
Othots                                                                                                                                                                                                           IllsdsA-
4 Other airPorts                                                   - 
*   Nariooal capitali1~ 
   Distrct capitals                                       /Nre0                                                                                                                                  phra 
-.-Ite,amtioaI 6oundaries                           -
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,"
2O 0   , 40O.mlhn04Iar0i 'baeO
ti.. 5  N        4c        to6ae
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
k~~~~~~~~~~~~ed
tPnrtol        ~~~                                                       ~~]       j      Noire..5s1.e..........es.....
S                                                                                                                                          N..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Kirr~~~~~~~5..~~~~~~) . ?                                                                                                                              N.~~~~sk
.  ... . ....... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Kl9euOO.0



