Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1991 UG
        (Second Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
          UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                      Dated December 20, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1991 UG
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  20,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  UGANDA POSTS AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (UPTC).
     WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The  Republic  of  Uganda  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to thirty-
eight  million  three  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 38,300,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that UPTC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and UPTC, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to UPTC on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in the Subsidiary
Page  2
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS UPTC, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) UPTC declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency,  and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial,  engineering, and telecommunica-
tions practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section  and,  except  as  the  Association and UPTC shall
otherwise agree, UPTC shall  carry  out  the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program  set  forth  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods, works and consultants' services,
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. UPTC shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. UPTC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, UPTC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) UPTC shall,  at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  UPTC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of  the purposes of the Credit
or the performance by UPTC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of UPTC
     Section 3.01. UPTC shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
Page  3
engineering and telecommunications practices under the supervision
of qualified  and  experienced  management  assisted  by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. UPTC shall  conduct  a  review of its organiza-
tional structure  and  develop  proposals  aimed  at  reducing the
workload of  the  Managing  Director.    Such  proposals  shall be
reviewed with  the  Association  and  implemented  by December 31,
1990.
     Section 3.03. UPTC shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and telecommunications practices.
     Section 3.04. UPTC shall  take  out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.05. UPTC  shall  continue  to  abide  by its Policy
Statement, as may be amended from time to time, after consultation
with the Association.
     Section 3.06. UPTC shall:
     (a)  on  an  annual   basis,   review  and  make  appropriate
adjustments to its staff remuneration policy to ensure that UPTC's
package of staff compensation is maintained at a level which shall
be competitive with  that  of  the  private  sector and the public
enterprises sector in Uganda; and
     (b)  by June 30, 1990, design  and implement a suitable staff
incentive program.
     Section 3.07.  UPTC  shall  take  the  necessary  measures to
ensure that, by June  30,  1990,  monthly  bills for telephone and
telex services are  issued  to  subscribers  no later than fifteen
(15) days after  the  end  of  the  month  in  which services were
rendered.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  UPTC  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate  to  reflect,   in   accordance   with  sound  accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  UPTC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six (6) months after
               the end of each such year:
               (A)  certified copies  of  its financial statements
                    for such year as so audited; and
               (B)  the report of such  audit by said auditors, of
                    such  scope  and   in   such   detail  as  the
                    Association shall  have  reasonably requested;
                    and
Page  4
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements, as well  as  the  audit thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. UPTC shall ensure that:
     (a)  investments to be made in each year of Project implemen-
tation are consistent with, and  within the limits of expenditures
established in, the Investment Program; and
     (b)  it consults with  the  Association  on any proposals for
investments estimated to cost more  than  ten percent (10%) of the
amount established in the Investment Program for any one year.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, UPTC  shall  earn,  for  each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal  year  ending  on  June 30, 1990, an annual
return of  not  less  than  twelve  percent  (12%)  of the average
current net value of UPTC's fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before January 1,  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, UPTC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by UPTC and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, in respect of such
year and the next following fiscal  year, and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  UPTC would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  above for UPTC's fiscal
years  covered  by  such  review,  UPTC  shall  promptly  take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels  of  its  tariffs)  in  order to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               UPTC's net telecommunications  operating income for
               the fiscal year in question  by one-half of the sum
               of the current  net  value of UPTC's telecommunica-
               tions fixed assets  in  operation  at the beginning
               and the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues accruing  from UPTC's telecommu-
               nications services,  less  total operating expenses
               related to UPTC's telecommunications services.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from  all  sources  related  to  telecommunications
               operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to telecommunications operations,
               including  administration,   adequate  maintenance,
               taxes and payments in  lieu of taxes, and provision
               for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
               of not less than four percent (4%) per annum of the
               average current gross value  of UPTC's fixed assets
               used for telecommunications  services in operation,
               or other basis, acceptable  to the Association, but
               excluding interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average current gross  value of UPTC's telecom-
               munications  fixed  assets  in  operation  shall be
               calculated as  one-half  of  the  sum  of the gross
               value of UPTC's  fixed  assets  in operation at the
               beginning and the end of the fiscal year, as valued
               from time to  time,  in  accordance  with sound and
               consistently  maintained   methods   of  valuation,
Page  5
               satisfactory to the Association.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value of UPTC's fixed assets
               in operation" means the gross value of UPTC's fixed
               assets in operation used by UPTC for telecommunica-
               tions  services,  less  the  amount  of accumulated
               depreciation, as valued from time to time in accor-
               dance  with   sound   and  consistently  maintained
               methods of valuation,  satisfactory to the Associa-
               tion.
     Section 4.04. UPTC shall, from time to time take, or cause to
be taken, all such measures (including without limitation, adjust-
ments of the structure or  levels  of  its tariffs charged for its
services) as shall  be  required  to  produce  funds from internal
sources adequate to cover UPTC's estimated local currency require-
ments for the implementation of its Investment Program.
     Section  4.05.  (a)   UPTC   shall,  semiannually,  beginning
January 1, 1990, and thereafter  on  July  1 and January 1 of each
year of  Project  implementation,  review  the  adequacy of UPTC's
tariff  levels,  to  meet  the  requirements  set  forth  in  Sec-
tions 4.03  (a)  and  4.04  of  this  Agreement,  on  the basis of
financial  forecasts  prepared   by   UPTC,  satisfactory  to  the
Association. UPTC shall  furnish  copies  of  such  reviews to the
Borrower and the Association.
     (b)  UPTC shall take all the  necessary steps to ensure that,
within three months of the review date, such adjustments in tariff
levels shall be made  as  required,  based  on the findings of the
review.
     (c)  UPTC shall adopt a formula, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to enable UPTC to  make automatic interim adjustments to its
tariff levels, to promptly cover sudden increases in its operating
costs.
     Section 4.06. UPTC shall,  by  December 31, 1990, undertake a
study, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to
evaluate the adequacy of  UPTC's  current tariff levels and struc-
ture, and recommend any appropriate changes.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement,  and all obligations of the
Association and UPTC hereunder, shall  terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date fifteen (15) years  after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  terminates,  in
accordance with its terms,  before  the date specified in subpara-
graph (a) (ii)  of  this  Section,  the Association shall promptly
notify UPTC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  6
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made under  this  Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by hand, mail, telegram, cable,
telex or  radiogram  to  the  party  to  which  it  is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For UPTC:
          Uganda Posts and
            Telecommunications Corporation
          P.O. Box 7171
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                POSTEL                        61027
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement, on behalf of UPTC or by UPTC on behalf of the Borrower,
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by its Managing Director or  such  other person or persons as UPTC
shall designate in writing. UPTC  shall furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all, collec-
tively, but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   UGANDA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
Page  7
                   By /s/ Pascal Mukasa
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits,"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts  for the procurement of
tools, minicomputers and miscellaneous  materials shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of $100,000 or
more each.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  UPTC  may  grant  a margin of pre-
ference to domestic  contractors  in  accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:  Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Tools,  minicomputers  and   miscellaneous  materials,  which
cannot be grouped in bid packages, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited  international  bidding  procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified  suppliers  eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures  set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Spare  parts  for  switching   and  transmission,  which  are
proprietary in character and  obtainable only from specified manu-
facturers, may be procured through negotiated contracts.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.   Review of  invitations  to  bid,  proposed  awards  and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of each  such  contract, required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to  paragraph  2  (d) of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines, shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out  of the Special Account in respect
of each such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
Page  8
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of each such contract,  together with the other information
required to be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to para-
graph 3 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall be furnished to the
Association as part of  the  evidence  to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist UPTC in carrying  out Part A and Part B of
the Project,  UPTC  shall  employ  experts  and  consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with  principles  and  procedures,
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency",  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Project Implementation:
1.   The implementation of the Project shall be carried out by the
management  of  UPTC,  with  the  assistance  of  consultants  and
contractors. Responsibility  for  day-to-day  follow-up of Project
preparation and implementation,  as  well  as liaison with consul-
tants and contractors involved in Project implementation, shall be
vested in a  Project  Coordinator  selected  from among the senior
staff of UPTC.
2.   UPTC shall adhere to the  performance indicators set forth in
the annex to this  Schedule  for  each year of Project implementa-
tion. Upon the completion of each  year, UPTC shall furnish to the
Association a report comparing the actual performance with projec-
tions in the  agreed  indicators  and  thereafter shall adopt such
targets,  monitoring  and   other   corrective   actions  for  the
subsequent  years  as  may  be  necessary  to  ensure  timely  and
satisfactory implementation of the Project.
Part A of the Project
     Engineering Consultants appointed  by  UPTC to prepare design
and bidding documents for  the  local network rehabilitation shall
continue to assist  UPTC  in  bid  evaluation,  and the subsequent
supervision and commissioning.
Part B of the Project:
1.   With  the   assistance   of   consultants,   UPTC  shall,  by
December 31, 1990, carry out  an assessment of its staffing needs,
including a determination of  staffing gaps and redundancies. UPTC
shall, with  the  exception  of  some  critical  vacant positions,
refrain from hiring staff to  fill middle- and low-level vacancies
until the results of such assessment are evaluated and adopted.
2.   UPTC shall promptly prepare and furnish to the Association an
Page  9
institutional development program,  including  an  action plan for
its implementation, which shall  be  consistent  with the UPTC Act
and the Policy Statement, satisfactory to the Association.
3.   UPTC shall prepare a  detailed training program, satisfactory
to the Association, to be completed by December 31, 1990.
4.   UPTC  shall  take  all   necessary   steps  to  complete,  by
September 30, 1990, a  twinning arrangement including provision of
technical assistance, with  a  suitable telecommunications agency,
satisfactory  to  the  Association,  for  in-service  training and
exchange of professional knowledge and experience.
5.   UPTC shall ensure  that  the  positions  of Finance Director,
Chief Accountant, Financial Accountant, Management Accountant, and
Systems and Procedure/Data Processing  Manager  shall be filled by
June  30,  1990,  and  thereafter  remain  filled  throughout  the
implementation  of  the   Project   with  suitably  qualified  and
experienced staff.
6.   UPTC shall:
          (a)  engage a  reputable  international  accounting firm
               to:
               (i)   review existing  financial, accounting, plan-
                     ning and  control  procedures, and management
                     information systems;
               (ii)  recommend  modifications   based   on  UPTC's
                     existing and future needs; and
               (iii) provide assistance  in  the implementation of
                     recommended changes; and
          (b)  recruit a financial  and Expenditure Accountant and
               a  Management  Accountant   for   its  Finance  and
               Accounting Department.
7.   UPTC shall  take  appropriate  measures  to  ensure  that, by
June 30, 1990, the level  of  UPTC's accounts receivable, from all
subscribers, including  the  Borrower's  ministries, public enter-
prises and  private  subscribers  for  telecommunications services
rendered by UPTC, is  reduced  to  no  more than the equivalent of
ninety (90) days of  UPTC's  sale  revenues, in accordance with an
action plan, satisfactory to the Association.
                               ANNEX
                      Performance Indicators
     A set of indicators which  would  assist in the monitoring of
UPTC's performance during the Project period has been established.
UPTC will be asked  to  report  on  the  actual  as well as on the
projected achievement related to the performance indicators.
                      1989      1990     1991     1992    1993
Telephone lines       1,800     2,900    4,400    4,600   5,000
 connected
Telex lines              60        60      480      240      50
 connected
Telecommunications       58        56       53       50      48
 staff per 1,000
 DELs
Maintenance targets
 (speed of fault-
 clearance)
Page  10
% of faults cleared    n.a.        20       25       50      60
 within 24 hours
% of faults cleared    n.a.        20       20       30      25
 within 24 to 72
 hours
% of faults cleared    n.a.        60       55       20      15
 after 72 hours
Average call com-        30        40       50       55      60
 pletion rates
 Local calls %
                      1989      1990     1991     1992    1993
Weeks of billing
 delay at year end:
 Telephone                6         4        2        2       2
 Telex                    6         4        2        2       2
Rate of return on        12.8%     14.1%    12.2%    12.1%   12.9%
 net revalued assets
Receivables out-         114%      106%     76%      50%     28%
 standing as % of
 annual revenues
Annual Investment         11.2      23.1    22.0     21.7    25.0
 ($ million)
