CREDIT NUMBER 1991 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1991 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGRFEMENT, dated    I  c        -- .2e       , 1989, between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, being satisfied of the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Uganda Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC) with the Borrower's
assistante and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to UPTC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and UPTC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and UPTC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UPTC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Investment Program" means UPTC's program of investments
for the period 1988 through 1993, approved by the Borrower's
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, and includes:
(i) the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(ii) extension of the microwave routes to the borders of
Tanzania and Rwanda, and reconstruction of some
VHF/UHF transmission links;
(iii) extension of the telephone switching capacity in
Entebbe and Jinja;
(iv) extension of telex switching capacity; and
(v) expansion of international telecommunications and
introduction of international subscriber dialing;
(e) "Policy Statement" means the Statement of Policy,
adopted by UPTC's Board of Directors on October 27, 1988, which is
intended to guide UPTC's operations and future development; and
(f) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated March 12, 1987; May 6, 1987;
September 14, 1988; October 27, 1988; and December 19, 1988,
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-eight million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 38,300,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, through the Bank of Uganda, a
special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i) from a date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30
in each year shall be applied as of the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of
June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.


﻿(c) The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i) at such places as the Association shall reasonably
request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions
or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 1999, and ending January 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association, and after their due
consideration of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above
by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit


﻿-5-
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,
the payment of interest, at an annual rate agreed with the
Association, on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from c:A,- to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause UPTC to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of UPTC
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the maintenance of appropriate tariffs for telecom-
munications services rendered by UPTC, and the provision of funds,
lacilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable UPTC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) make available to UPTC the equivalent of six
million six hundred thouand dollars ($6,600,CC_
of the proceeds of the Credit as an equity con-
tribution to UPTC's capital; and


﻿(ii) relend the equivalent of forty-five million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($45,700,000) of the
proceeds of the Credit to UPTC,
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and UPTC, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, and which shall include
repayment of the principal amount of the loan portion in
fifteen (15) years, including a grace period of four (4) years,
interest on such principal amount at the rate of eight percent
(8%) per annum. UPTC shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by UPTC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that:
(a) the Borrower's ministries and parastatal bodies shall
pay, in full, all arrears for telecommunications services by
June 30, 1990; and
(b) thereafter, all charges incurred by its ministries and
parastatal bodies are paid to UPTC within thirty (30) days of the
billing date.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
tecessary to establish the required tariff level and adopt tariff
structures for UPTC's telecommunications services to enable UPTC


﻿-7-
to attain the rate of return and the cash flow level referred to
in Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take such steps as are
necessary, including timely approval of recommendations made by
UPTC, to enable UPTC to maintain its staff compensation package at
a level which is competitive with the private and public
enterprises sectors.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) as
evidence of such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
subparagraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year, audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six (6) months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to


﻿-8-
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts, and the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) UPTC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that UPTC will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement-
(c) The UPTC Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of UPTC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower, or any other authority having juris-
diction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of UPTC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60)days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events axe specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions.
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and UPTC;
(b) UPTC has awarded the turn-key contract for the network
rehabilitation under Part A.1 of the Project;
(c) UPTC has submitted to the Association an institutional
development program, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 2, to the
Project Agreement; and
(d) UPTC has:
(i) employed a suitable accounting firm, pursuant to
paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
and
(ii) engaged a financial and expenditure accountant, and
a management accountant for UPTC's finance and
accounting department.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by UPTC and is legally binding upon UPTC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and UPTC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and UPTC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement and the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen (15) years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala
Uganda
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINSEC                        61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By   / 5/  /A                                 -
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /   /             ece~L4; Z
-0          Regional Vice President
/                Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Rehabilitation             23,700,000      100% of foreign
of local cable                             expenditures
networks under
Part A.1 of the
Project
(2) Vehicles, tools,            8,280,000      100% of foreign
telecommunications                         expenditures and
equipment, spare                           80% of local
parts and supplies                         expenditures
(3) Consultants'                5,200,000      100% of foreign
services and                               expenditures
training
(4) Refunding of                1,120,000      Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL                38,300,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(i) rehabilitate UPTC's economically critical facilities to
increase the utilization of existing exchange capacity and partly
meet demand; and (ii) improve UPTC's operating and financial
performance through a program of institutional development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Telecommunications Rehabilitation:
1.   Rehabilitation of the local cable networks in Kampala,
Entebbe and Jinja through replacement and expansion of primary and
secondary telephone cables and associated equipment, including
transmission systems for the Kampala inter-exchange junction
network.
2.   Acquisition of telephone instruments, PBX, teleprinters,
facsimile and data equipment for the rehabilitation of subscriber
facilities.
3.   Acquisition of 100 subscriber units of rural radio call
equipment, operation consoles and a transmitter to rehabilitate
the existing radio call network.
4.   Acquisition of cables and associated equipment for the local
networks rehabilitation in provincial towns.
5.   Installation of a computerized subscribers' record system and
acquisition of microcomputers.
6.   Acquisition of vehicles and tools.
7.   Engineering consultants' services for the design and super-
vision of the rehabilitation of local cable networks under
Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B:   Institutional Development
Telecommunications sector institution building through:


﻿- 15 -
1.   technical assistance for strengthening corporate planning,
financial management, training and manpower development;
2.   consultants' services to assist UPTC in implementing its
institutional development strategy;
3.   fellowships and twinning arrangements with a suitable tele-
communications agency; and
4.   acquisition of laboratory equipment and training aids.
Part C:   Spare Parts and Materials
Acquisition of spare parts and materials for UPTC's
maintenance and operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required, pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, for the payment or


﻿- 17 -
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Acccant such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.


﻿- 18 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
(i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
an
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graphs 6 (a), 6 (b) and 6 (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancella-
tion in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


