FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Repon No. 36a-YDR
APPRAISAL OF
A FISHERIES PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
March 27, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



OURRSNOT ERMIVAITS
US$1 ,   -O O.345 Dinars (SYt)
SD.OO  - US$2.895
WEIGHTS AND M1i&   (METREC SYSTM)
1 sq meter (m2)     a 10.8 sq feet
1 sq kilaueter (km2)   0.386 8q miles
1 hectare (ha)      a 2.47 acres
1 millimeter (C)       0.0394 inches
1 centimeter (an)      0.394 inches
1 meter (m)         a 3.28 feet
1 killeter (Im)    - 0,62 wiles
1 liter (1)          a 0.264 uS gallons
1 kdlogran (k)         2.205 pmds
1 metric ton (ton)   5 21205 pound8
ACRDN AND AB3RVIATIONS
Corporation - Public Corporation for Fish Wealth
FPD - Fisheries Projects Department (of the Corporation)
NBY - National Bank of Yemin
FISC§A YEUR
April 1 - March 31



APPPAISAL OF
A FISHERIES PROJECT
PEOPLE' S DEiIOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEIEN
Table of Contents
Pa7,e No.
SUMtARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...... ...................................          1
II.   BACKGROUEND                                                      1
A. General.                                                      1
B. The Fisheries Sector.                                        2
Fish Resources .............................         2
Coastal Fisheries.                                    3
Deep Sea Fisheries.                                  4
Shore Facilities.                                    4
Fish Marketing.                                      5
C. Supporting Services.                                          5
The Public Corporation for Fish Wealth                5
Training and Research                                 6
Fisheries Credit ...........................          7
III. THE PROJECT.                                                       8
A.   Brief Description          .      ..............................  8
B. Detailed Features                    . . .    9
Shore Facilities          ...                        9
Fislhing Vessels         ...10
Technical Assistance    ...10
C. Project Implementation Schedule .                            12
1).   Cost Estimates            .       .       ............    12
E. Financing                 ...14
F.   Procurement ..............................           .    15
G.  Disbursement               .       .       ............  16
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEifENT .17
A. Project Management .17
Administration .17
Management Study .17
Fisheries Development and lIarbor Study              18
Studies of Agriculture of Wadi Hadramut
Area and Mlukalla Water Supply .18
The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program identified and prepared the project and
finalized its report in April 1972. This appraisal report is based on the
findings of a mission to PDRY in May 1972, composed of Messrs. P. Pohland,
F. Kada, and L. Sprague (IDA) and Mr. P. Mornement (Consultant).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
B.  On-lending Policies and Procedures ....     ...........  18
C.  Operating Arrangements ......      .....................  18
D.  Project Accounts and Audit .....      ..................  19
E.   Project Evaluation .......     ........................  19
V.  PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND OPERATING RESULTS          20
A.   Production, Prices and Markets ...................  20
Production   ..................................  20
Prices       ......................................  20
Markets   ........ ........ .. ...................  21
B.   Operating Results ............... .................  21
Corporation   ....... ......... .................  21
Fisheries Cooperatives .......... ............  21
Government   .............. .. ..................  21
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................  22
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................  23
ANNEXE S
1.  The Fisheries Sector
Table 1 Catch Statistics
Table 2 Imports and Exports of Fish Products
Appendix 1 Principal Species Caught in PDRY
Appendix 2 Species and Development Potential
2.   Detailed Description of the Proposed Shore Facilities
WB 6938 - Project Site at Mukalla
1WB 6936 - Layout of Shore Facilities at Mukalla
lE 6953 - Layout of Receiving Station at Shihr
WB 6952 - Flow Diagram
3.  Detailed Description of Project Vessels
WB 6937 - Traditional Fishing Vessel with Proposed Modifications
4.   General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultants
5.   General Terms of Reference for Operations Personnel
6.   General Terms of Reference for Management Consultants



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
7.   Detailed Terms of Reference for Fisheries and Harbor Consultants
8.   Project Imnlementation Schedule (lB 7072)
9.   I)etailed Cost Estimates
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
11.   Organization Chart (iB 7033)
12.   General Outline for Project Evaluation
13.   Trade and Marketing Prospects for Project Species
Tahle I World Production of Tuna by Country
Table 2 World Production of Tuna by Species
Table 3 Price Per Ton for Yellowfin 1957-1970
14.   Financial Results
Table 1   Financial Results of Present and Projected Fishing Operations
Table 2   Annual Income Statement - Project 1essel
Table 3   Projected Cash Flow - Project Vessel
Table 4   Projected Cash Flow - Cooperative Mukalla
Table 5   Projected Cash Flow - Cooperative Shihr
Table 6   Landings and Price Estimates for Project Species
Table 7   Projected Onerating Costs - Shore Facilities
Table 8   Incremental Annual Benefits from Lobster Operations
Table 9   Projected Income Statement - Shore Facilities
Table 10  Projected Cash Flow - Shore Facilities
15.   Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Table 1  Economic Rate of Return Calculatiors
'APS






PFOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMFN
FISHERIES PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a fisheries development project for the
traditional fishing sector in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY). Total project costs are estimated at US$4.2 million and the
proposed IDA credit of US$3.5 million would be equal to the foreign
exchange component. The project would form an important part of PDRY's
fisheries development program which is aimed at exploiting one of the
richest fishing grounds in the world and one of the few natural resources
of the country.
ii.       PDRY's traditional fishing sector has immediate development
potential, especially for the export of highly valued species now caught
in the coastal waters. Favorable development aspects include underex-
ploited fish resources, an enterprising and skilled fisheries community,
and growing demand for fish in export markets. Inadequate fishing
techniques and lack of infrastructure, (especially shore facilities),
fishing capacity, and quality control for exports, have so far hindered
any substantial progress.
iii.      The project, which was prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program,
would be executed by the existing Public Corporation for Fish Wealth (Corpora-
tion) and would provide credit for the construction of (a) shore facilities
(i.e. cold storage and freezing facilities); (b) improved traditional fishing
vessels (including the short-term provision of a naval architect and master
f:~sherman); and (c) five traditional demonstration vessels with improved fish-
ing gear. It would also finance the employment of engineering consultants to
design, procure and supervise the construction of shore facilities; experts
for shore facilities and marketing operations; management consultants to re-
view the Corporation's organization and supporting systems; harbor and fisher-
ies consultants to provide specific recommendations for exploiting the fishing
resources of the Ras-Fartak grounds (off the Sixth Governorate), and consul-
tants to prepare stuaies of the agricultural development of the Wadi Hadramut
(principal agricultural area of the Fifth Governorate) and of the water supply
for Mukalla. It is expected that the fisheries development and harbor study
would result in a second-phase project to exploit the Ras-Fartak fishing
grounds and that the Wadi Hadramut and Mukalla studies would provide the bases
for eventual projects in agriculture and water supply.
iv.       The Government would on-lend to the Corporation about US$3.3 mil-
lion, consisting of US$2.75 million of the IDA credit and about US$0.55 mil-
lion of Government funds. The loan would be at 67 for 17 years, including
five years' grace. The Corporation would use the proceeds for investments
over a four-year period in shore facilities, fishing vessels, and technical
assistance for shore facilities and marketing operations. The Corporation
would on-lend about US$0.6 million for fishing vessels to two fisheries co-
operatives in the project area. The balance of the IDA credit, about US$0.75
million, together with US$0.1 million of Government's own resources, would be



- ii -
used by Government to finance the fisheries development and harbor study and
the studies of agriculture in the Wadi Hadramut area and water supply for
Mukalla.
v.        Shore facilities would be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures. Traditional, well-suited fishing vessels and fishing
gear would be procured locally.
vi.       The economic rate of return of the project would be about 30%.
Implementation of the project would increase fish exports by about 3,600
tons per year and provide about 2,100 tons for the domestic market, valued
in total at US$1.5 million. The project would also result in quality im-
provements and cost savings on existing lobster production (estimated at
US$0.2 million per annum) by shifting lobster processing from old and
obsolete facilities to the new facilities. Improved fishing techniques and
boat design would result in higher income to participating fishermen, and the
increased fishing capacity would have the additional benefit of reducing un-
deremployment in the project area.
vii.      The project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.5 million
on standard terms. Government would be the borrower and would assume the
foreign exchange risk.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Goverrment of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY) has requested an IDA credit of US$3.5 million to meet the foreign
exchange costs of a project to increase fish production mainly for export.
The project, which would form an important part of Government's fisheries
development program, would assist over a four-year investment period in
developing the traditional fisheries sector by providing cold storage and
freezing facilities for export marketing and fishing vessels for moderniza-
tion and expansion of present fishing operations in the project area. In
addition, the fisheries development and harbor study would provide a basis
for a second-phase fisheries project, while the recommendations of the studies
of agricultural development of the Wadi Hadramut area and of Mukalla water
supply would provide the bases for eventual projects in agriculture and water
supply.
1.02      This would be the first IDA credit to PDRY's fisheries sector
and the third lending operation to the country. The first, in FY 1971,
was for a total of US$1.6 million (Credit YDR-240) for a highway project
to which UNDP also made a grant of US$680,000.  Physical progress has been
satisfactory, but feasibility and technical assistance studies tave shown
that additional funds will be required for additional detailed engineering
and further technical assistance to the Public Works Department. A US$0.6
million IDA engineering credit (S-12 YDR) was signed on November 17, 1972,
to support this program.
1.03      The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program identified and prepared the
project and finalized its report in April 1972. This appraisal report is
based on the findings of a mission to PDRY in May 1972, composed of Messrs.
P. Pohland, F. Kada, and L. Sprague (IDA) and Mr. P. Mornement (Consultant).
1/
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      PDRY, with an area of 290,000 km 2, is administratively divided
into six governorates. It has a population of about 1.5 million (1971),
which is increasing annually at a rate of 2% to 3%. About 80% of the
1!   For further information on PDRY's economy, see:  "The Economy of Southern
Yemen", IBRD Report No. EMA-24a of October 2, 1970; and the President's
Report No. S-12 dated Nov. 17, 1972 on the Highway Engineering Credit.
A Bank economic mission returned from PDRY in early December 1972 and
is currently preparing its report.



- 2 -
population is engaged in agriculture and per capita incoine was estimated
at about US$100 in 1971.
2.02      PDRY has few known natural resources.  Much of its territory is
mountainous and rugged, while the climate is arid, characterized by high
average temperatures and very little precipitation. These conditions,
plus a lack of permanent surface water, severely limit the scope for
agricultural development, and no minerals or oil of commercial importance
have been discovered. The economy of PDRY up to independence in 1967 was
centered around Aden and was service-oriented, with entrepot trade, bunker-
ing and services rendered for the British military base providing the main-
stay of economic activity. The productive sectors generated less than one
quarter of GDP. Except for the large Aden refinery, there was little in-
dustrial activity and considerable amounts of foodstuffs and manufactured
goods were imported. The large visible trade deficit was covered by remit-
tances of Yemenis living abroad, and British budgetary aid and military
expenditures. The closure of the Suez Canal, withdrawal of British troops
and the discontinuation of British Budget support in 1967/68 led to a major
setback in the economy, with GNIP falling by one-third and foreign exchange
earnings by three-fifths. Unemployment became a serious problem, especially
in Aden where employment dropped by nearly one-half. The newly formed
socialist government rigorously cut public expenditures, drew on its reserves
and turned to socialist countries for aid (mainly USSR, People's Republic of
China and Democratic Republic of Germany). Most foreign establishments
(mainly banks, shipping, trading and insurance companies, but not the refinery)
were nationalized in 1969. By 1970 there was also a sharp decline in re-exports
to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) due partly to the development of YAR's own
trade, and partly to the introduction of import duties by PDRY in November
1970. The balance of payments deficit is presently covered mostly by private
remittances and bilateral aid. The Government is now attempting to stimulate
the economy by mobilizing resources, primarily in agriculture and fisheries
and, to a lesser extent, in manufacturing and mining, and by providing a
road infrastructure to support a production-oriented economy. The proposed
fisheries project fits in well with this strategy.
2.03      Although about 80% of the population is engaged in agriculture and
fisheries, the average contribution to GNP (1965-69) has been only about 10-15%,
of which fisheries contributed 2-3%.
B. The Fisheries Sector
Fish Resources
2.04      Detailed data on fish resources along the east coast of the
Arabian peninsula (Map) are still scanty, but several FAO studies indicate
that PDRY's coastal waters and the Gulf of Aden rank among the richest fish-
ing grounds in the world. Strong monsoon winds coming from the sea lead to
periods of strong upwelling along the narrow continental shelf, during which



-3-
cool, nutrient-rich waters replace the surface water. The nutrients thus
brought to the surface allow a bloom of plants on which the small zoo-plankton
and, in turn, the larger fish feed.
2,05      Surface fish, such as sardines, tuna, queenfish and mackerel, make
up the most abundant resources. Other species of commercial importance are
cuttlefish (an inkfish species), and crustaceans such as deep sea spiny
lobster and rock lobster (Annex 1, Appendix 1).  Research data and surveys
indicate that only 10% to 30% of sustainable yields are presently being caught,
mainly for the local market (Annex 1, Appendix 2), since any large-scale,
export-oriented exploitation of resources by local fishermen has been hampered
by the lack of infrastructure, mainly cold storage and freezing facilities,
fishing capacity and quality control.
Coastal Fisheries
2.06      The coastal fisheries are by far the most important to the
economy and offer considerable potential for further development. Some
30 fishing villages are scattered along the coast, but the major fishing
centers are in Shuqrah in the Third Governorate, Mukalla and Shihr in
the Fifth (the proposed project area), and the Ras-Fartak fishing grounds
off the Sixth Governorate.
2.07      Fishing is a traditional occupation along the coast and about
13,000 fishermen are currently engaged in it, about 46% of whom are concen-
trated in the Fifth Governorate.  Formerly, fishermen were controlled and
organized by local chiefs and fish merchants, but their influence has
diminished since the cooperative movement, encouraged by Government, got
underway. Within the past three years, about 25% of PDRY's fishermen have
become members, and it is expected that in a few years almost all will
have joined.  The fisheries cooperatives appear to work well, financially
and administratively.  They own vessels and transport equipment, supply
fuel and fishing gear and arrange fish marketing.
2.08      Traditional vessels are of three main types:  (i) the canoe, or
"huri"; (ii) the outboard "sambuk" (traditional 6-m wooden vessel with out-
board engine); and (iii) the inboard "sambuk" (traditional 14-m wooden vessel
with inboard engine). All are made of wood and range in overall length from
5 m to 14 m. Crews number from 1 to 10. Due to limited employment oppor-
tunities, vessels usually carry a larger crew than strictly required for
fishing operations.  There are a timated 7,200 fishing vessels in PDRY --
80% unpowered huris, 17% outboard sambuks, and the remainder, inboard sambuks.
The small huri cannot be fitted with an outboard or other engine and the de-
sign of the outboard sambuk is not suited for further improvements. The in-
board sambuk, however, is well suited for mechanization engines and, most
likely, mechanical net and line hauling , and fishing results are far superior
to that achieved by other craft, which accounts for the increasing proportion
among newly built boats. A variety of fishing gear is used, but generally
the inboard sambuks operate nets and a large number of trolling lines, while
the smaller vessels use handlines, a few trolling lines and cast nets (Annex
1).



-4-
Deep Sea Fisheries
2.09      Deep sea fisheries have bee-n developed with the assistance of
joint ventures and bilateral and multilateral aid (Annex 1). PDRY's present
fleet of six modern deep sea fishing vessels (ranging from 35 to 300 gross
ton), obtained under grants, is owned and operated by the Public Corporation
for Fish Wealth (Corporation).
2.10      To exploit specific resources, the Corporation has established joint
ventures for deep sea lobster,and cuttlefish, and for fish meal production.
The Yemeni-Soviet Committee for lobster fishing (tlwo Yemeni trawlers operating
together with two Russian trawlers of 1,000 gross ton each) and the Yemeni-
Japanese agreement for cuttlefish operations (under which three Japanese
stern-trawlers of 1,500 gross ton operate) are commercially successful. A
fish meal plant is under construction and will be jointly owned by the Corpo-
ration and private Yemeni interests.
2.11      Multilateral assistance for deep sea fisheries has been provided
mainly through the FAO/UNDP/SF Fisheries Development Project, which deter-
mined, over a six-year period, the resources of the most important commercial
species and demonstrated trawling possibilities (Annex 1). Bilateral assist-
ance is being provided by the Soviet Union, People's Republic of China, and
Denark. It includcs provision of fishing vessels and shore facilities,
Tra'!brtation equipment and boatyards. Proposals for new investment are
in various stages of review and implementation. However, tuna resources
in the project area would probably not sustain another tuna-based fisheries
project in the project area. Therefore, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, except as the Borrower and the Association otherwise agree,
the Borrower would not carry out any other tuna-based fisheries project in the
project area.
Shore Facilities
2.12      There are no fishing harbors in PDRY and almost the entire catch
is landed on the open beach or, in a few cases, at protected anchorages.
Since the lack of fishing harbors and monsoon-protected anchorages has been
recognized as a major obstacle to year-round fishing operations, the FAO/
UNDP/SF Fisheries Development Project carried out a study to determine the
major landing places where shelter could be provided for fishing vessels
and to investigate the possibility of developing a fishing harbor in the Sixth
Governorate. Several locations have been identified, but further study would
be required before a shore-based fishing industry could be developed.
2.13      There is one major clockyard in PDRY, located in Aden, equipped with
a slipway and facilities to maintain steel vessels. Wooden vessels are being
built and repaired at three private boatyards in Aden that specialize in the
construction of inboard sambuks. In addition, a pilot boat construction
project is planned to be financed by Danish aid. Cooperative workshops in
Mukalla are used mainly for small repairs and maintenance.



-5-
2.14      There are limited cold storage facilities (capacity about 220
tons), mainly in Aden, almost all of which are owned and operated by the
Corporation. However, refrigeration equipment is old and badly maintained,
resulting in poor quality products. See Annex 1 for details.
Fish Marketing
2.15      Sardines, which account for 90,000 tons or about 70% of total
landings, are not used for human consumption but as fertilizer and animal
feed.  Of the remaining 26,000 tons of fish, about 15,000 tons are marketed
locally and the rest processed and exported by Japanese vessels operating
under a fisheries agreement (para 2.10). Furthermore, about 300 tons of
deep sea spiny lobster are exported under the Yemeni-Soviet Agreement (para
2.10). In addition, a joint venture with Kuwait to exploit Rock Lobsters
was recently concluded. Domestic wholesale marketing of all fish (whether
caught by cooperative members or others), previously in the hands of fish
merchants (para 2.07), is now being carried out by cooperative societies.
Fish is auctioned by the piece or a string of pieces and prices vary, depending
on supply and species. Generally, domestic wholesale prices are substantially
below international prices. Because fishermen have no way of preserving the
quality of their catch until it arrives at the landing centers and markets,
the quality is usually below the standard required for processing and export
to international markets. See Annex 1 for details on marketing.
2.16      About 45% of domestically marketed fish is consumed fresh in the
coastal area, while the rest is sun-dried or smoked for sale in the interior
or for export to Sri Lanka (Ceylon) and East Africa. Local markets are
scattered along the coast and, except for a few having road connection
with Aden, fresh fish must be consumed daily in the area immediately sur-
rounding the landing center. Local markets are presently oversupplied and
any significant market expansion into the interior would require investments
in roads, transportation equipment, and refrigeration facilities. Even then,
however, it is doubtful whether frozen or chilled fish would be accepted
quickly bv consumers. It is believed that, in the long-run, domestic demand
could grow at a faster rate than population, but that export markets now
offer much better prospects for increased sales. The export frozen fish
product market appears attractive for several of the species commonly caught
in PDRY, such as tuna, queenfish, bream, and crustaceans. UJsing present
fishing methods the traditional fishing sector could exploit these resources,
but quality standards of landed fish for export would have to be improved,
mainly by use of ice during fishing operations (paras 2.'5 and 5.04).
C. Supporting Services
The Public Corporation for Fish Wealth (Corporation)
2.17      Before 1970, PDRY's fisheries were administered by the Fisheries
Department within the former Ministry of Agriculture. The Department was



responsible for policy and regulatory aspects, training and research and
for operation and maintenance of its fishing vessels. Processing and
marketing matters were also under the overall control of the Director of
Fisheries. In 1970, Law No. 18 (Annex 1) consolidated the Fisheries
Department, the Fisheries Training Institute and Research Center, and the
National Cold Storage Corporation into one body, the Government-owned and
semi-autonomous Public Corporation for Fish Wealth (Corporation), and made
it responsible for all fisheries development in PDRY. In order to allow
the Corporation to concentrate on its commercial functions, however, Gov-
ernment is now considering reestablishment of the Department of Fisheries
to take over the Corporation's administrative and regulatory functions for
commercial fisheries, basic research, development of cooperative societies,
collection of statistics, and training. A draft law reflecting these changes
is presently under discussion within the Government.
2.18      The Corporation's current operations are broadly divided into
(i) commercial fisheries activities, such as fishing, cold storage, and
marketing; (ii) credit assistance to cooperative societies; and (iii)
training and research. Day-to-day management is provided by the Director
General, assisted by a Coordination Committee, while a Board of Administra-
tion sets the long-range policies. The Board of Administration consists of
a chairman (appointed by the Chairman of the Presidential Council), the
Director General, a representative of fishermen's cooperative societies, a
representative of the employees, and a part-time member appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. Total staff numbers 311, 18
of whom are in supervisory positions. Under the guidance of FAO/UNDP and a
variety of bilateral experts, technical operations, training, and research
are well undertaken. However, the Corporation has only limited export
marketing experience and also has a critical shortage of skilled middle-
management personnel.
2.19      The broad organizational changes necessitated by amalgamation
of formerly independent units (para 2.17) are still being implemented and
it is recognized that the present organizational structure of the Corporation
should be improved, especially the supporting systems such as accounting,
control, and management information.
2.20      The Corporation's accounts for the fiscal years ending March 31,
1971 and 1972 have not yet been finalized and the FY 1973 accounts are not
up to date. Efforts are being made to set up a more efficient accounting
system, and the Corporation has requested IDA's assistance to provide outside
consultants to assist in this (para 4.04).
Training and Research
2.21      A well equipped Training and Research Center, operated by the
Corporation, was established in Aden in July 1969 with UJSSR technical
assistance and teaching staff. The training section provides a three-month
course for fishermen mainly for deep-sea fisheries, while for intermediate
and high-level students a four- to five-year advanced course is provided.



-7-
Scholarships for university degrees abroad (USSR) and training in private
companies (Japan) are also granted. The research section carries out investi-
gations on fish resources in the Gulf of Aden and on the utilization and
processing of fish products.
2.22      The Corporation is also operating a Fisheries Research Station
at Mukalla and received substantial assistance from the USSR for training
Yemeni scientists working at the Station in physical and biological oceano-
graphy. The Station is concentrating on the Mukalla region, presently the
most important fisheries center in the country, and it is expected that the
research it undertakes will be of considerable value in developing the
fishery resource potentials of the Fifth and Sixth Governorates.
Fisheries Credit
2.23      Credit to agricultural cooperative societies has been made available
since early 1971 through funds lent by the Banking and Credit Department of
the National Bank of Yemen (NBY) and guaranteed by Government. Government
guaranteed about SYD 400,000 (US$1.2 million) of such credits in FY 1971
and FY 1972 but has not extended further guarantees. Out of the total, credit
to fisheries cooperatives was relatively small, only SYD 52,000, and was mainly
for transport equipment and fishing gear and engines (Annex 1). The loans
have repayment periods from one to two years, with a three-month grace period
and an interest rate of 5%. No downpayments are required from the cooperatives,
which do not handle the cash but receive the equipment directly from the sup-
pliers. Performance of the fisheries loans is satisfactory to date -- there
are no bad debts and amounts overdue are less than 5%.
2.24      Lending procedures require that the Department of Cooperatives,
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, review the coopera-
tive's loan request and, in the case of a fisheries loan, ask for technical
evaluation by the Corporation. This documentation, together with an
appraisal of the cooperative's creditworthiness carried out by the NBY,
serves as basis for final loan recommendation by NBY's loan committee.
2.25      Fisheries cooperatives can also receive from time to time interest-
free credits in kind from the Corporation, which distributes bilateral
grants (mainly fishing gear) to them. No interest is charged and repayment
periods range from one to three years without grace. Except in the Fifth
Governorate (project area), performance on these loans is not good, and
amounts overdue run about 30%. It appears that the distribution of equip-
ment received by the Corporation as bilateral grants and distributed to the
cooperatives in kind is not regarded as a credit operation.



III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      PDRY has abundant underexploited fish resources and there is
no doubt that it could export and market substantial additional quantities
provided it had the shore facilities and the fishing capacity. Based on
estimates of numbers of fishermen in the project area (the Fifth Governorate
including adjacent coastal waters to a distance of 5 nautical miles from the
coast) who are either not employed or underemployed on existing vessels and
estimates of exploitable resources, about 60 to 80 additional inboard sambuks
could be operated, which would increase annual production by some 3,600 tons
for exports, while about 40 inboard sambuks would be required for replacement
of obsolete outboard sambuks, which were damaged during heavy storms in 1972,
producing about 2,100 tons for the domestic market. The project would consist
of:
(a)  construction of cold storage and freezing facilities
at Mukalla and Shihr;
(b)  credit for the procurement of 95 fully equipped inboard
sambuks to be operated by cooperatives at Mukalla and
Shihr;
(c)  procurement of five inboard sambuks equipped with more
efficient fishing gear (prepared by an FAO/UNDP naval
architect - see Annex 3) to introduce modern fishing
techniques; and
(d)  technical assistance for shore facilities operation,
and fisheries including:
(1)  engineering consultants to assist in design,
procurement and construction supervision of
shore facilities;
(2)  expert personnel to operate the shore facilities
and carry out the export marketing;
(3)  a naval architect to supervise initially design
and construction of fishing vessels and a master
fisherman to intoduce the demonstration vessels to
traditional fishermen; and
(4)  management consultants to review and recommend improve-
ments in the Corporation's organizational structure
and accounting system.



-9-
In addition, the project would include:
(e) a fisheries development and harbor study (by consultants)
to provide specific recommendations towards fisheries
and harbor development in the Sixth Governorate;
(f)  a study (by consultants) of the agricultural development
of the Wadi Hadramut area; and                                   /
(g)  a study (bv consultants) of the water supply of Mukalla.
A Fisheries Project Department (FPD) to be established within the Corporation
and headed by a Project Manager would operate the shore facilities. The
creation of FPD and hiring of a Project Manager with qualifications and ex-
perience acceptable to IDA, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
and his counterpart, would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The Proj-
ect Manager would be an administrative-oriented fish marketing expert with
practical experience in executive functions, industrial fisheries and inter-
national fish marketing. FPD would purchase the bulk of the cooperatives'
fish landings from project vessels, have it processed in the shore facilities
in Mukalla and Shihr, and arrange for export marketing. The fishing vessel
credit program would be the responsibility of the Director General of the
Corporation. The fisheries development and harbor study and the studies of
agricultural development in the Wadi Hadramut area and of Mukalla water sup-
ply would be directed by the Central Planning Commission.
B. Detailed Features
Shore Facilities
3.02      Only about one-third of the fish would be landed in Mukalla (the
remainder at Shihr), but since Mukalla has the required harbor facilities
and sufficient fresh water, the freezing and cold storage facilities would
be constructed there, while a fish-receiving station would be located at
Shihr. Three insulated trucks would move ice and fish daily over the 65-km
distance separating them and radio communication would be installed at Mukalla
and Shihr to integrate operations.
3.03      The shore facilities at Mukalla would consist of fish-landing
facilities, a freezing plant with a daily capacity of 18 tons, an ice-making
plant with a daily capacity of 25 tons, and a cold storage of 800 tons
static capacity. The facilities would be located at a Government-owned site,
adjacent to transshipment facilities and roads. Sufficient fresh water
would be supplied from the municipality's water distribution system and
electricity would be based on self-generated power. Outline specifications
and drawings appear in Annex 2.



- 10 -
3.04      The receiving station at Shihr would comprise a fish chilling
and store room and an ice store room. Fish and ice storage rooms would
be adequate for the expected daily quantities (average about 10 tons per day).
The proposed site would be within a short distance of the beach on which the
fish would be landed, near power lines and fresh water pipes, and adjacent
to a road. Annex 2 provides outline specifications and drawings.
Fishing Vessels
3.05      The project would provide five inboard sambuks for demonstration
purposes, the number being based on the supervisory capacity of the Mukalla
Research Station. The vessels would be made of wood, using the well-suited
traditional design. They would have an overall length of 14 m with a covered
deck and an flnboard diesel engine of 30 to 40 hp and are expected to catch
about 70 tons of fish per annum. They would be equipped with insulated ice-
boxes to improve the quality of the fish and a mechanical line/net hauler to
handle more varied and larger fishing gear than can presentiy be accommodated.
3.06      Based on estimated replacement needs and potential fleet expansion
(Annex 3), about 95 inboard sambuks would be provided under the project, each
catching between 50 and 60 tons of fish per annum. Funds to replace engines
on outboard sambuks (6-M vessels) or to replace obsolete outboard sambuks
with the same boat type, as originally requested, have not been included
because of the low operational results obtained by such boats (para 5.07).
To modernize and maintain the fishing capacity of the present fleet after the
storm damage in 1972, obsolete outboard sambuks would gradually be replaced
under this project by about 38 inboard sambuks. In addition, about 57 inboard
sambuks would be provided under the project for expansion of production. The
vessels would be equipped with insulated ice-boxes and normal sized fishing
gear. If the demonstration vessels operate successfully, a mechanical line/
net hauler and larger fishing gear could be fitted later without technical
difficulties.
3.07      Although local boatyards are familiar with the design of the
traditional inboard sambuk and, because of the proposed modifications (para
3.06), the naval architect (para 3.11) would initially supervise installation
of these design details during vessel construction. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the improvements outlined in paras 3.05 thru 3.07
would be incorporated in project vessels.
3.08      Since adequate and timely supply of diesel engine spare parts in the
project area would be essential for continued operation of the proposed
vessels, initial sets of spare parts would be provided with the engines as
part of the project.
Technical Assistance
3.(9      Engineering Services.  An engineering firm would be hired to assist
FPD in designing, implementing and supervising construction of the shore
facilities. The firm would: conduct site and foundation investigations;



prepare detailed designs, tender and contract documents; assist in bid eval-
uation; and, during construction, provide on-site inspection to ensure that
civil works construction and equipment installations conform to contract
specifications. General terms of reference are presented in Annex 4. The
hiring of a firm, acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.10      Operations Personnel.  A project manager (para 3.01), a cold
storage manager, and a refrigeration engineer and their iespective counter-
parts would be employed under the project to staff the FPD. A qualified
local accountant would be engaged to handle the bookkeeping. The cold
storage manager would have experience in fish processing; and the refriger-
ation engineer would be experienced in operating and maintaining refrigeration
machinery. General terms of reference appear in Annex 5. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that within 3 months of completing construction of
the shore facilities, the cold storage manager, refrigeration engineer, and
within six months of signing of the credit, the accountant, all with quali-
fications and experience and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, would
be hired and on duty. In addition, within 3 months of completing construc-
tion of the shore facilities, the Corporation would hire, in consultation
with the Association and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion, counterparts to the project manager, cold storage manager and refriger-
ation engineer.
3.11      Naval Architect and Master Fisherman.  In order to provide detailed
design work and to supervise the construction of the initial vessels, a
suitably-experienced naval architect would be employed. A master fisherman
would be employed to assist traditional fishermen in the initial use of the
new craft. The naval architect and master fisherman each would be required
for about six months.
3.12       lAn"ement Study.  A management study would be financed under the
project LO produce recommendations for improving the organizational structure
and accounting system of the Corporation, taking into consideration the
Corporation's future operations. An outline of the proposed study is in
Annex 6. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Corporation
would hire a management consulting firm, acceptable to IDA, within six months
of the signing of the credit on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to
perform the study; and that it would discuss with IDA the study's recommend-
ations prior to their implementation.
3.13      Fisheries Development and Harbor Study.  A qualified harbor
engineering firm (supplemented by fisheries consultants) would be engaged
to conduct a fisheries development and harbor study to provide detailed
information on the infrastructure and fisheries capabilities required to
develop a fisheries industry in the Sixth Governorate. This study is ex-
pected to lead to a second fisheries project. Several potential fishing
harbor sites have already been identified (para 2.12). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that within six months of signing of the credit,
a harbor engineering firm assisted by fisheries consultants, both acceptable
to IDA, would be hired on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Detailed
terms of reference for the study are presented in Annex 7.



- 12 -
3.14      Agricultural Study of Wadi Hadramut Area.  The study (by consultants)
would prepare an agricultural/rural development project in the Wadi Hadramut,
the main agricultural area of the Fifth Governorate which project may prove
suitable for external financing. An agricultural project in the area would
complement IDA-supported roads into the Wadi. Consequently, the cost of this
study has been included in the project.
3.15      Mukalla Water Supply Study.  Although adequate water supplies
currently exist at Mukalla to accommodate project requirements, the growing
demand for fresh water in the town of Mukalla and potential project expansion
necessitate an early study of long-term needs and supplies. Accordingly, the
project would include funds for consultants services to initiate such a study.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would employ
within six months of signing of the credit, or such later date as IDA might
agree to, consultants acceptable to IDA upon terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA to carry out the studies of agricultural development in the Wadi
Hadramut and water supply at MIukalla.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
3.16      The project would be implemented over a four-year period (Annex 8).
D. Cost Estimates
3.17      Total project cost is estimated at SYD 1.5 million (US$4.2 million),
of which 847, or SYD 1.2 million (US$3.5 million), would be the foreign ex-
change component. The foreign component is high because the equipment and
most of the material required for construction are expected to be imported,
and the consultants would be foreign. Detailed cost estimates are presented
in Annex 9 and summarized below.



- 13 -
SYD (Thousands)         US$ (Thousands)      Foreigr.
Foreign  Local Total Forea.2       Local Total Exchangfe
A. SHORE FACILITIES
1. Mukalla
Buildings and Site
Works                    62      39    101       180    112    292          62
Insulation                 48      12     60       1 39     35    174         80
Machinery and
Equipment               263      18    281       761     53    8l          94
Subtotal             373      69    442    1,080    200  1,280         8f4
2. Shihr
Buildings and Site
Works                     3       2      5         9      5      lb        64
Insulation                  2      -        2        6      -       6        100
Machinery and
Equipment                 6       2      8        17      6      23         74
Subtotal              11       4     15        32     11      43         74
TOTAL SHORE FACILITIES         384     73    457    1,112    211  1,323           84
",.  FISHING VESSELS               175      22    197       508     63    571          R9
C.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Engineering Services        42       5     47      120      15    135         89
20  Operations Personnel       114      7    121       330      20    350         94
3. Naval Architect and
Master Fisherman         14       3     17        40       8     48         83
4.  Management Study            38      6      44      110      18    128         86
5. Fisheries Developnent
and Marbor Study        145       9    154       420     25    445          94
6. Wadi Hadramut Study          55       7     62      160      20    180         89
7. Water Supply Study           14      3      17       40      10      50        80
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   422        40    462    1,220    116  1,336          91
D.  INCREMIETAL WORKING CAPITAL   -         57     57        -     165    165          -
E. CONTINGENCIES                   228     45    273        660    130    790          84
GRAND TO'ThL                 1,209    237  1,445    3,500    685  4h185            34



- 14 -
3.18      Estimates for imported items are based on 1972 manufacturers' prices,
including freight, insurance and installation costs, adjusted for the estimated
effects of subsequent currency changes through March 1973. Import duties or
other levies are not included since the Corporation and cooperatives are
exempted by law from such payments. Contingencies include a 15% physical
contingency on the shore facility estimates to cover the corts of alternative
designs and equipment outlay, and 10% on the cost of fishing vessels and
technical assistance. A 10% price contingency is added to meet an expected
inflation of 57 per annum on both local and foreign cost items, including
physical contingencies. Incremental working capital consists of larger
inventories from expanded trading and shore facilities operations and would
be provided by Government from its own resources.
E. Financing
3.19      The financing plan for the project is shown below:
SYD (Thousands)               US$ (Thousands)
Govern-                        Govern-
IDA    ment   Co-ops  Total  IDA    ment   Co-ops  Total
1. Shore Facilities 486       93       -      579  1,406    270        -    1,676
2. Working Capital    -       69       -       69       -    200       -       200
3. Demonstration
Vessels          12       1       -       13      35      3       -       38
4. Fishing Vessels  200        2       23     225    579       6      67       652
5. Technical As-
sistance to
Corporation    252       25       -      277    730      72       -      802
6. Feasibility
Studies         259      23       _      282    750      67       -      817
TOTAL      1,209    213       23   19445  3,500    618       67    4,185
84     14        2     100
3.20      The proposed IDA credit would contribute UISS3.5 million, or 84%
of total project costs, and would cover the foreign exchange component.
Covernment would be the borrower and would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Government would supplement the IDA contribution of US$3.5 million with about



- 15 -
US$0.6 million from its resources. In addition, cooperatives would provide
about US$0.1 million to cover the total project costs of USS4.2 million.
Under a subsidiary loan agreement with the Corporation, Government would on-
lend about US$3.3 million to the Corporation (US$2.75 million IDA funds and
about US$0.55 million, including about US$0.2 million for incremental working
capital, from its own resources) and use about US$0.8 million for the fisheries
development study and the agricultural survey and the water supply study
(US$0.75 million IDA funds and about US$0.1 million from its own resources).
The subsidiary loan agreement would provide for on-lending of about SYD1.2
million (US$3.3 million) at 6% for 17 years including five years' grace. The
execution of the subsidiary loan agreement, in a form satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.21      Of the US$3.3 million that would be on-lent to the Corporation about
US$2.7 million would be used by the Corporation for investments in shore
facilities, demonstration vessels and technical assistance for project opera-
tions. The remaining US$0.6 million would be on-lent by the Corporation to
fisheries cooperatives for the purchase of fishing vessels. Loans for fishing
vessels would be at not less than 6% interest for a maximum of eight years
including one year's grace, to a maximum of 90% of vessel cost, and with re-
payments scheduled monthly. Vessels under the project would be mortgaged to
the Corporation and the cooperatives would maintain adequate insurance on
the vessels, with the Corporation as beneficiary.
3.22      The interest rate of 6% to be charged to the Corporation and to
cooperative societies under the credit program is 1% higher than that
presently charged by the National Bank of Yemen for loans made for produc-
tive purposes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Corpora-
tion would follow lending policies and practices outlined in para 3.21 and
would charge interest rates of not less than 6%.
F. Procurement
3.23      Procurement of shore facilities would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's Guidelines. Civil works would
be included as part of the contract, since a close integration between build-
ing structures and equipment to be installed would be essential, and bidders
would be expected to make suitable arrangements with local contractors for
related civil works. Bidders would be required to submit complete information
on their technical and financial capacity to carry out the proposed works,
which would be considered in bid evaluation.
3.24      Procurement of the fully equipped fishing vessels would be through
local channels. International competitive bidding for fully equipped boats
would not be appropriate, because (a) the well-suited and inexpensive tradi-
tional hull design, with which local fishermen have developed efficient
fishing operations, requires skilled carpenters familiar with traditional con-
struction techniques, (b) fishing gear would have to suit varying local con-
ditions and fish resources, and (c) since trained mechanics are scarce in the



- 16 -
project area, engines would have to be compatible with those of the existing
fleet. In addition, because of low labor costs and advantage on freight over
foreign boat suppliers, local yards would be the cheapest sources of these
vessels. Wooden vessel hulls would, therefore, be ordered by the Corporation
directly from the local boatyards, taking into account their limited construc-
tion capacity, and fishing gear and engines would be procured through normal
trade channels, after consultation with the cooperatives. The estimated cost
of the items exempt from international competitive bidding would be SYD
238,000 (UTS80.7 million). Fishing gear would be suitable for local conditions
and engines and would be ordered only from suppliers undertaking to maintain
an adequate spare part supply in PDRY and giving one year's warranty on the
installed engines.
3.25      For goods and services to be procured through international
competitive bidding, the Corporation, with the assistance of the engineering
consultants, would prepare specifications and tender documents which would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment prior to issue. IDA would also com-
ment on the evaluation of bids and recommendation for award. There are no
preferential tariff agreements between PDRY and other member countries that
would affect bid evaluation and there are no domestic manufacturers of shore
facilities equipment. Consultants' services would be procured in accordance
with IDA's Guidelines. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the procurement procedures outlined in paragraphs 3.23 through 3.25 would be
followed.
C. Disbursement
3.26      The IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a)  Shore Facilities.  The CIF cost of directly imported
insulation and other materials, machinery, equipmeat
and vehicles, and on a percentage, currently estimated
at 65%, of progress payments for civil works;
(b)  Fishing Vessels.  The CIF cost of directly imported
marine diesel engines, fishing gear and office equipment,
or 90% if procured locally, and 65% of the Corporation's
expenditures under the project for fishing vessel hull
construction; and
(c)  Technical Assistance.  The foreign exchange costs of
consultants' services relating to engineering, management
studies, the fisheries development and harbor study, and
credit survey; and salaries of hired operational personnel.
Disbursements would be made on submission of requests accompanied by full
import documentation for items procured under international competitive
bidding and for items directly imported such as engines, fishing gear,
vehicles and office equipment. For civil works, disbursements would be



- 17 -
against engineer's certificates of progress (Annex 4). Any savings would
be used to finance further fishing vessels under the credit program. A
quarterly schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 10.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management
Administration
4.01      The Corporation, which is described in paras 2.17 through 2.20 and
Annex 1, would have overall responsibility for project execution except for
the studies of fisheries development and harbors in the Sixth Governorate,
agricultural development in Wadi Hadramut and Mukalla water supply which would
be the responsibility of the Central Planning Commission. Under the project,
it would establish a Fisheries Project Department (FPD) (para 3.01) under the
direct responsibility of the Director General of the Corporation. An organi-
zation chart is presented in Annex 11. FPD would be directed by the Project
Manager (para 4.02), who would be responsible for general project administration,
supervision of engineering consultants (para 4.02), operation of shore facili-
ties; he would also assist the Director General with the credit program (para
4.03), and the management study (para 4.04).
4.02      The technical personnel required for FPD would initially consist
of three qualified experts -- a Project M4anager, a cold storage manager, and
a refrigeration engineer -- assisted by local counterparts and supporting
staff. It is expected that the three experts would be recruited abroad be-
cause knowledge in their fields is not available in PDRY. The Project Manager
would be stationed at Corporation headquarters in Aden, while the cold storage
manager and refrigeration engineer would operate the shore facilities in
Mukalla and Shihr (para 3.10). An accountant would be engaged locally to
handle bookkeeping operations. FPD would be assisted in technical aspects
of implementing and supervising construction of the shore facilities by an
engineering firm (para 3.09).
4.03      The credit piogram for fishing vessels would be the responsibility
of the Director General and it would be implemented by the Fisheries Planning
and Services Department, assisted by FPD with respect to procurement and
construction of vessels. The Services Department would maintain accounts
and FPD's accountant and his assistant in Mukalla would supervise repayments
(para 4.09).
i'anagement Studv
4.04      To assist the Corporation with its expanded operations, an in-
depth study of its organizational structure and supporting systems would be
carried out (para 3.12). Management consultants would, on the basis of a



- 18 -
comprehensive review, make recommendations with respect to a suitable
organizational structure, accounting system, and other appropriate measures
to facilitate and rationalize management information and decisions.
Fisheries Development and Harbor Study
4.05      The Central Planning Commission would hire the consultants to
conduct the proposed fisheries development and harbor study for the Sixth
Governorate (para 3.13) and would guide and supervise its implementation.
Agricultural Study of Wadi Hadramut Area and Mukalla Water Supply Study
4.06      The FAO-IBRD Cooperative Program would assist Government in prepar-
ing detailed terms of reference for the study of the Wadi Hadramut area.
Government would hire consultants to prepare terms of reference for the study
of the Mukalla water supply. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that Government would designate the Central Planning Commission to be re-
sponsible for implementing the fisheries development and harbor study, the
Wadi Hadramut agricultural study and the Mukalla water supplv study.
B.   On-lending Policies and Procedures
4.07      The Corporation would channel credit to cooperative societies under
a revised set of procedures as outlined below. The Director General would
make the final decision on loan approvals, taking into account an appraisal of
the cooperative's creditworthiness to be carried out by the National Bank of
Yemen, which currently handles all financial transactions for the cooperatives.
Special attention would be given to a cooperative's repayment ability, taking
into consideration its current operations and future plans, and approval would
be given only after the society had made a downpayment of 10% of the invest-
ment costs.
4.08      No interest margin is to be allowed the Corporation for administering
the credit program. Technical appraisals would not be necessary since the
type of investment is well proven and the expected number of loans is small
so that the present staff in Aden, plus the proposed accountant and his
assistant in Mukalla, would be adequate. Repayments would be deducted month-
ly from fish sales.
C. Operating Arrangements
4.09      At full development, the Corporation would buy about 3,600 tons of
fish per year from the cooperative societies at an average price of about
US$150 per ton. At an average sales price of UIS$330 FOB Mukalla the dif-
ferential of US.S180 would cover operating costs, depreciation, taxes and a
reasonable profit (14% financial return on the Corporation's investments)
(para 5.06).



- 19 -
4.10      Purchase prices would aim to provide the cooperatives with a fair
return while at the same time providing the Corporatio'n with-a'sufficifft'  |
margin to cover thefuTTcosts involved and a reasonable profit.  To this
ienthe Corporation would conduct, in consultation with representatives of the
cooperatives, a semi-annual review of fish purchase prices payable by the
Corporation to  tTrec`-peiHV&6s*. These reviews would examine, among other
things, local market prices, export prices, and the Corporation's costs of
handling and export marketing (including operating costs of shore facilities,
overheads depreciation, debt service and taxes). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these reviews would be carried out.
D.  Project Accounts and Audit
4.11      The Corporation would establish and maintain separate financial
accounts of all project expenditures and subloans under the credit program and
would have such accounts audited. By law, all state-owned corporation accounts
are audited by the Central Organization for Control and Audit. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the project and loan accounts would be
established, maintained, and satisfactorily audited and that an audited annual
statement of these accounts, together with the audited annual financial state-
ments of the Corporation, starting with FY 1973, would be sent to IDA within
six months of the close of each fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained
during negotiations that audited accounts for the Corporation's fiscal years
1971 and 1972 would be made available to IDA as soon as thev have been finalized
but not later than six months after the signing of the credit agreement.
E. Project Evaluation
4.12      FPP would be responsible for evaluating the benefits realized under
the project. In particular, it would collect information monthly on shore
facilities and fishing operations as detailed in Annex 12 and would provide
IDA with annual reports within two months after the close of each fiscal year
starting with FY 1974. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions.



- 20 -
V. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARYETS AND OPERATING RESULTS
A. Production, Prices and Markets
Production
5.01      Presently, about 250 to 300 outboard sambuks land about 5,700 tons
annually (excluding sardines) for the domestic market in the project area.
Without new investment, however, this production would drop by about 2,100
tons because fishing vessels are becoming obsolete because of the age of
vessels and damage caused by storms in 1972 with resulting decline in fishing
canacity. (Annex 3). The fishing vessel component of the proposed project
would replace these vessels to maintain production for the domestic market
at the present level and add vessels to increase production oy 3,600 tons,
which would be processed for export through the new shore facilities.
Further, the new shore facilities would replace existing obsolete facilities
to freeze lobster tails, with resulting cost savings and higher export prices
from improved quality.
5.02      The 3,600 tons to be exported would consist of a variety of species.
Existing landings in the project area were used to establish a typical catch
composition by species. Based on an analysis of present landings, the bulk
of the catches would be expected to be tuna, particularly yellowfin, although
bottomfish, shark, queenfish and others would also be caught. For further
details, see Annex 13.
Prices
5.03      Fish prices in international markets vary by species and quality
but have generally shown an upward trend over the past decade. Prices used
for project evaluation are those paid in the local market for domestically-
consumed fish together with those for existing exports, particular exports
of second qualitv fish to Jordan, or the prevailing ex-vessel prices
paid in the main markets in Japan and the IJ.S.A. The average price for
the total production FOB Mukalla would be about IUSS330 per ton, with a
high of USS440 per ton for bottom fish in the Asian speciality market and a
low of UTSS255 for second quality fish. The bulk of the exports, tuna, would
bring an average price of USM380 FOB Nlukalla. A full discussion on prices
and markets is presented in Annex 13.
5.04      Ex-vessel prices payable to cooperative societies are subject
to negotiation (para 4.10) but are expected to reflect average prices pre-
vailing in the wholesale markets, including an incentive allowance to com-
pensate for somewhat longer fishing trips and the use of ice. Present
average prices are about US$130 per ton, with a high of USS159 for tuna
species and a low of US$87 for locally less popular species. For purposes
of financial calculations, an incentive of 15% has been added and it has
been assumed that the Corporation would pay about US$150 per ton, on the
average, with a high of US$174 for tuna species and a low of US$116 for
shark. See Annex 14, Table 6 for further details.



- 21 -
Markets
5.05      The production intended for domestic consumption would continue to
be marketed in Mukalla and Shihr, while export markets for first quality fish
would be mainly Japan or Japanese transshipment bases off the East African
coast and the United States. Second quality fish and sharks would continue
to be exported to Jordan. Transshipment would be no problem since refrig-
erated carriers are presently calling regularly on the East African Coast
and a stop at Mukalla would mean only a slight detour. In addition, Japanese
carriers are presently transhipping cuttlefish from PDRY to Japan and could
also be used for this purpose.
B. Operating Results
Corporation
5.06      The financial forecasts for the Corporation indicate that, although
it would incur losses during the first two years of the investment period
because the shore facilities would not be operative, its overall financial
rate of return after taxes would be about 14%. This rate is conservative
and adequate, considering that there is a 60% income tax levied. Details of
rate of return calculations, income statements, and cash flows are presented
in Annex 14.
Fisheries Cooperatives
5.07      Cooperative societies would benefit from export price increases
because fish purchasing prices would be reviewed periodically and the price
reviews as outlined in paragraph 4.11 would ensure adequate financial returns
on fishing vessels. At the estimated catch rate for participating vessels
and the expected minimum ex-vessel price, the financial rate of return would
be about 25% for inboard sambuks while the excluded outboard sambuks (para 3.06)
would have a financial rate of return of only 11%. In addition, income for
fishermen switching from outboard sambuks to inboard sambuks would increase
by about 60%. See Annex 14, Table 1 for details.
Government
5.08      The 5-1/4% interest differential (6% onlending rate less 0.75%
service charge on the IDA credit) accruing to Government from on-lending
about SYD 0.95 million (US$2.75 million) of IDA funds to the Corporation
and early collection on the IDA funds would help to cover costs of Govern-
ment's contribution, local costs of fisheries-related studies, and the foreign
exchange risk. Further, Government would increase its tax revenues by SYD
2.0 million (USq5.8 million) over the life of the project.



- 22 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed shore facilities and modernization and expansion
of the fishing fleet in the project area would benefit the economy by about
US$1.7 million per year at full development (the fourth year after project
commencement), due to (a) increased fish exports; (b) maintained fish pro-
duction for the domestic market; and (c) improved quality and cost savings
from lobster processing.
6.02      Total estimated landings of the proposed vessels under the project
would be about 5,700 tons per annum valued at US$1.5 million. Proposed
shore facilities would process 3,600 tons for export, while the balance of
2,100 tons would be consumed locally. Present shore facilities in the proj-
ect area are small and in poor condition and because of obsolete machinery
and inefficient operations, lobster processing costs are high and the poor
quality products result in low prices in international markets. By shifting
lobster processing from the old facilities to the proposed new ones, cost
savings and quality improvement estimated at US$0.2 million, would accrue to
the economy.
6.03      The economy should realize a satisfactory rate of return of 30%
from project investments, including physical contingencies. By increasing
the cost of the project by 15% without increasing value of benefits, the rate
of return would be 26%. If the lobster processing were not shifted to the
new facilities, the rate of return would be 23%. See Annex 15 for further
details.
6.04      At full development, the project would offer improved income
opportunities to some 300 fishermen presently working on old and obsolete
vessels and generate about 500 new jobs by fleet expansion. Incomes of
fishermen presently employed on outboard sambuks would increase by about
60% or from SYD 88 (US$255) to SYD 139 (US$400) per annum. Further, about
50 laborers would be permanently needed for shore facility operations,
while transshipment would provide additional employment opportunities for
casual laborers in, the order of two man-years per annum. During the develop-
ment period, the civil works for shore facilities and the vessel construction
program would also provide employment estimated to total 90 man-years.
6.05      Government would also benefit in the long run through the conduct
of the studies to be performed under the project. They would determine the
feasibility of fisheries development in the Sixth Governorate, agricultural
development in Wadi Hadramut and improved water supply for Mukalla.



- 23 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the principal assurances obtained from Govern-
ment were that it would:
(i)  except as it and  -.-,A otherwise agreed, not carry
out or permit to be carried out any other tuna-based fisheries
project in the project area (para 2.11);
(ii)  employ a qualified harbor engineering firm, assisted
by fisheries consultants, both acceptable to IDA, within six
months of the signing of the credit on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para 3.13);
(iii) hire, within six months after credit signing, consultants
acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA to conduct the studies of agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramut and water supply for Mukalla (para 3.15).
7.02      Principal assurances were also obtained from Government that the
Corporation would:
(i)   recruit, to be on duty within three months of completing
construction of the shore facilities, a cold storage manager
and refrigeration engineer and their respective counterparts,
and, within six months of the signing of the credit, an
accountant, as outlined in para 3.10;
(ii)  contract a management consulting firm, acceptable to IDA,
within six months of the signing of the credit on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA; and discuss with IDA
the study's recommendations prior to their implementation
(para 3.12);
(Iii) follow the lending policies and procedures for subloans
to fisheries cooperatives as outlined in para 3.19, at
interest rates on subloans for fishing vessels of not
less than 6% (para 3.20);
(iv)  review and negotiate at least semi-annually with the
cooperatives the fish purchase price payable as outlined
in para 4.10*
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that:
(a) a Fisheries Project Department (FPD) had been established
and that a Project Manager and his counterpart had been
employed as outlined in para 3.01;



- 24 -
(b) an engineering firm, acceptable to IDA, had been employed
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to assist FPD in
designing, implementing and supervising construction of the
shore facilities (para 3.09); and
(c) a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and the
Corporation had become effective in accordance with
para 3.20.
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.5 million
on standard terms. The borrower would be the Government of the People's Demo-
cratic Republic of Yemen.
March 27, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fisheries Sector
A. Resources
1.        The fairly narrow region along the east coast of the Arabian
peninsula ranks among the richest fishing areas in the world. Seasonally,
strong monsoon winds, either from the southwest or northeast, lead to
periods of strong upwelling over the narrow and precipitous continental
shelf, during which surface water blown away from the shore is replaced by
cooler, nutrient-rich water. On reaching the surface, the nutrients allow
a bloom of plants on which the small zooplankton and, in turn, the larger
fish feed. Upwelling typically occurs during the period of the southwest
monsoon (June - August) and cycles of intense biological productivity
follow.
2.        PDRY's coastal waters and the Gulf of Aden have abundant fishing
resources. Appendix 1 lists some groups and species of fish found in PDRY
waters. The various groups of marine species which are of commercial impor-
tance such as sardines, tuna, lobster and cuttlefish and which are important
to the further development of commercial fisheries in PDRY are discussed in
detail in Appendix 2.
B. Production and Marketing
Statistics
3.        Fishery statistics are collected by the Corporation (paras 42-45)
in cooperation with the fisheries cooperatives, but data are not complete.
No statistics are recorded for the Sixth Governorate and many remote com-
munities are not accounted for. Some sales of fish through private mer-
chants also go unrecorded. Government, however, is aware of the importance
of gathering such information and is trying to improve collection
methods.
The Catch
4.        The available estimates of catch for 1970 are shown in Table 1
and there has been little real change over the last two to three years.
The major part of the catch is landed by the traditional fishermen, al-
though about 500 to 700 tons of the bottom fish (mainly bream and snapper)
caught by Japanese trawlers are brought into PDRY. The trawlers also catch



ANNEX 1
Page 2
cuttlefish and other species for the Japanese market.
5.        The catch by traditional fishermen in the project area includes
a wide variety of surface and bottom fish. Locally, sardines are the most
important in volume while the kingfish are the most important in value.
Lobster, now caught by traditional fishermen because of their export value,
were not a part of the historical traditional fishery because the local
population did not eat them. The 1971 catch of some species from the
project area is given in Table 1.
Value
6.        The total ex-vessel value of the present catch is about US$2.5
million and wholesale value is about US$3.5 million. The CIF value in Japan
of the cuttlefish caught by licensed trawlers is between US$5 and US$7
million, and royalties amount to about US$2.0 million per annum (para 35).
Consumption
7.        Present data suggest that per capita consumption of fish near the
coast may be about 35 kg but in the interior it is perhaps only 5 kg. Over-
all (excluding sardines which are mostly dried and used as fertilizer or
camel food), about half the catch is consumed fresh and the rest is dried,
salted, or smoked (see Map IBRD 10101). About 2,000 tons of canned fish are
consumed annually in PDRY. Frozen fish have been marketed only in Aden on an
experimental basis and demand is poor. Fresh fish consumption, now concentrated
along the coast, cannot be increased until better roads, insulated trucks, and
cold storage depots are available.
Prices
8.        Most fish are sold locally by the piece or by a string of several
pieces at prices that are highly variable, depending on the supply and
species. Wholesale prices for most fish are below international prices by
about US$100 to US$300 per ton, as an approximate average. One of the species
caught in PDRY that is traded internationally is the red snapper, a bream.
In Aden, it sells as fresh fish for US$150 to 180 per ton, while in New York,
it currently sells for US$990 per ton frozen. While it is difficult to provide
exactly comparable prices in the case of the snapper, taking into account the
form in which the fish is marketed and shipping and freezing costs, the dif-
ferential amounts to about TTS$300 per ton. As the landed quality of PDRY
fish is improved by using ice on the vessels and by better handling and as
dependable export quantities become available from the fishery, the prices
of PDRY fish should improve considerably.
Marketing
9.        The fish catch is most commonly landed on the beach for marketing
fresh, sun-dried or smoked. Wholesale marketing, previously in the hands



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of private traders who had a credit function as well, is now mostly con-
trolled by the fisheries cooperatives. The main problems with local market-
ing at present are caused by an inadequate system of transportation and
distribution and very stable and traditional patterns of fish consumption,
particularly as to species and form. Because no ice is available for use
by the fishermen, the quality of the fresh fish arriving at the wholesale
market is usually not adequate for processing and export to the interna-
tional market.
Imports and Exports
10.       About 2,500 tons of fishery products are imported, nearly half
of which is then re-exported in dried or salted form. Canned fish from
Japan accounts for about 90% of canned fish imports, totaling about 1,900
tons. Export volume depends on the production of dried and salted fish
and averaged about 5,000 to 6,000 tons annually during 1967-71, including
the re-export of similar products produced by neighboring states, mainly
Somalia and the Yemen Arab Republic. Table 2 shows the 1967-71 estimates.
The main export market for salted and dried fish is Sri Lanka (Ceylon),
which buys about 80% to 85% of PDRY production, while Kenya and Tanzania
in East Africa purchase the rest. Exports in 1971 amounted to about 8,700
tons, with a value of US$2.6 million. In the last few years, PDRY has also
begun to export increasing amounts of high-value seafood products in the
form of frozen lobster tails, squid, and turt'Le meat but quality has been
low and prices therefore substantially discounted. A small market for
frozen shark and bottom fish has also been developed in Jordan.
C. The Fishery
11.       The coastal fishery is by far the most important to the domestic
economy, but Government, with the assistance of joint ventures, and bilat-
eral and multilaterai aid, is also developing deep-sea fishing capabilities.
Shore Facilities
12.       Fishing Ports and Protected Anchorages.  Only at Aden are there
protected anchorage where vessels are safe from winds from all quarters.
Partly protected anchorages are found at IMukalla and Ousayir, but the
important fishing ports of Shuqra and Shihr and the smaller ports of Burum,
Hami, Musyna'ah, and Sayhut, as well as many others, have no protected
anchorages and boats must be pulled up on the beach.
13.       Wholesale Fish Markets.  Some wholesale fish markets are located
some distance away from the landing places and fish must be transported
to them from the beach. Land Rovers are used for the longer trips and
tw.o-wheeled carts for the shorter trips. The market themselves are often



ANNEX 1
Page 4
in open dirt or stone courts where the fish are piled and sorted prior to
auction. No ice is used and the condition of the fish after only a few
hours is below international export standards.
14.       Cold Storage and Other Processing Facilities.  Two cold storage
facilities, owned by the Corporation, are available in Aden, one with a
freezing capacity of 5 tons per day and storage capacity of 120 tons at
-18°C, and the other with an ice-making capacity of 1.5 tons per day and
50 tons of storage capacity at -18°C. Additionally, the Corporation owns
an antiquated and unreliable ice freezing and cold storage plant at Mukalla
which is being used for processing the lobster catch. This facility has
a capacity of 1.5 tons of ice and 1.5 tons per day freezing and 50 tons of
storage at -18°C. A small cold room at Shuqra, located on the beach and
operated by the local cooperative, has the capacity to chill about 5 to 6 tons
of fish per day at +50C. Although there are two or three small private ice-
making companies in the country, only small quantities of their production
are used for the fishing industry.
Boatyards and Facilities for Maintenance of the Fishing Fleet
15.       Dockyard in Aden.  This yard was established in 1967 and it is
equipped with modern machinery and a slipway able to take a vessel of
1,500 tons dead weight. It has facilities to construct steel fishing
vessels but the standard of the work appears to be below international
standards.
16.       Private Boatyards.  Private boatyards in Aden and Mukalla
construct wooden vessels, but these yards have no facilities such as powered
woodworking machinery, slipways, or workshops. Their capacity, however,
would be adequate for project purposes.
17.       Cooperative Workshops.  Some of the fisheries cooperatives have
established small workshops for maintaining fishing craft and engines and
many are able to construct very small boats. Such shops have no powered
machinery and few hand tools.
18.       Supply of Spare Parts for Engines.  Until recently, spare parts
for engines were supplied by private firms in Aden, but this trade has now
been nationalized and Government is responsible for it.
Coastal Fisheries
19.       Fishing is a traditional occupation in the coastal areas in the
south of the country where most of the population is situated. Some 30 fishing
villages are scattered along the coast but the major fishing centers are Shuqra,
M4ukalla, and Shihr and the Ras-Fartak grounds in the Sixth Governorate. The
fishermen make daily trips of about six hours' duration, starting early in the
morning and coming back before noon. Longer trips are made by a few fishermen



ANNEX 1
Page 5
from Qusayir who operate larger inboard vessels and on occasion travel as far
away as the Somalia coast to catch the larRer tuna species. The fishing popu-
lation in 1968 was distributed by area as follows, according to Department of
Fisheries statistics:
Governorate               Number of Fishermen             Percentage
First                           2,695                      21.0
Second                            492                       4.0
Third                             450                       3.5
Fourth                            312                       2.5
Fifth                           5,800                      45.5
Sixth                           3,000                      23.5
12,749                     100.0
20.       In the greater project area, between Burum and Musyna'ah in the
Fifth Governorate, there are about 5,400 fishermen. By far the largest
number (3,200) operate non-powered boats, beach seines, traps, and the
like, while 2,000 operate or are employed on motorized vessels.
21.       Coastal Fisheries Cooperatives.  Government has placed considerable
emphasis on organizing and developing the fisheries cooperative movement. In
the past, the organization of local fishermen was controlled by local chiefs
and fish merchants who provided credit at very high rates, but, under the
new Government, their influence has greatly diminished. At the present
time, about 25% of the fishermen in PDRY are a part of the cooperative
movement and it is expected that in a few years almost all the fishermen
along the coast will be members of one of the cooperative societies.
22.       The societies own vessels; provide maintenance, short-term
financing, fuels, salaries, gear and such; arrange the marketing of the
fish; and provide medical care and other employees' benefits.
23.       Coastal Fishing Boats and Gear.  The traditional fishing boats
are of three main types: the dugout canoe or "huri", the outboard engine
'"sambuk", and the inboard engine "sambuk". According to official figures,
the total number of fishing craft during the last five years was approximately
as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Canoes                              5,567   5,601   5,680   5,735   5,748
Outboard Sambuks                      870     895      964   1,211   1,254
Inboard Sambuks                       160      182     196      210     215
24.       The dugout canoe, used in gillnet and handline fishing, is typically
5 m long and powered by sail and paddles. The crew consists of one or two
men and the craft operates close to the shore and only wqhen the weather is
calm. The craft is hauled ashore after each trip.
25.       Outboard sambuks were developed from the dugout canoe.  A typical
one is about 6.5 m long and propulsion is by paddling, sail, and/or a 6 to
9 hp outboard motor. Carrying a crew of three to five men, these craft
sometimes range far off the coast when the weather is calm.
26.       In the project area near Shihr, a unique sort of outboard sambuk
is found, which can be best described as a canoe constructed of thin planks
"sewn" together.  The toughness and flexibility of such a hull make it a
superior type for use in heavy surf along exposed beaches.
27.       The inboard sambuk is the biggest boat used in the coastal fishery
and a typical one has the following dimensions:  13.4 m, 2.90 m, and 1.50 m.
The shape of the hull dates back over many centuries and recent mechaniza-
tion has necessitated few, if any, changes.  The craft is double-ended and
has a markedly raked box. The inboard diesel engine size ranges from 20 to
40 hp, and the general type is 4 cylinders, running at about 1,800 rpm, with
a 1:2.5 reverse/reduction gear. The inboard sambuk has considerable poten-
tial for inexpensive improvements by mechanization and it is extremely well
suited to local sea and coastal conditions, capable of operating in all but
the roughest weather. The larger vessels of this type now range over large
areas, and, with the added capability of carrying ice, they should be able
to greatly increase their catch of offshore pelagic species.
28.       A variety of gear is used -- ring nets, gillnets, hooks and lines,
traps, and trolling gear on the larger sambuks and cast nets, hooks and
lines, and trolling gear on the smaller boats. In addition, many beach
seine nets and cast nets are found along the coast, as well as some locally
specialized hand-operated nets, traps, and hooks and lines.
Deep Sea Fisheries
29.       Vessels.  All modern fishing vessels are nationally owned, based
in Aden, and operate under the Corporation. The fleet consists of the
following:
(a) Two seiner-trawlers of Russian origin, "Fartak" and "Shamsan"
(300 gross tons each). Neither has freezing equipment but



ANNEX 1
Page 7
both are fully engaged in deep sea spiny lobster fishing in
a joint venture with two Russian freezer trawlers (para 32).
(b) One freezer trawler of Japanese origin, "Burum" (260 gross
tons). This trawler has a storage capacity of 80 tons and
a freezing capacity of 3 to 5 tons/day. Until November 1971,
it was operated by the FAO/UNDP/SF project under a charter
agreement. "Burum" is engaged in demersal fish, rock lobster,
and cuttlefish operations, mainly in the Ras-Fartak area.
(c) Two 45-foot steel boats, "Noqum" and "Southern Hope", built in
Aden in 1965 (35 gross tons). The "Noqum", which was operated
until the end of 1971 by the FAO/UNDP/SF project, is now under
repair.  It has no ^efrigeration on board and it will be engaged
in pelagic fishing (sardine). The "Southern Hope", which has
a 10-ton insulated hold with ice, is starting the collection
of rock lobsters along the coast of the Sixth Governorate.
30.       A 47-foot multi-purpose vessel, "Rizq-al-Bahr" (100 gross tons),
built in England in 1964 and operated by the FAO/UNDP/SF project, has also
been engaged in pelagic fishing and will probably supply the fish meal plant
at Mukalla when it is completed. In addition, three' Japanese freezer trawlers
(1,500 gross tons each) of the Nichiro Fishing Company are fishing in PDRY
waters under a commercial agreement with the Government (para 35).
Joint Ventures
31.       Within the provisions in the 1970 Law for Fish Wealth Development,
it is the policy of Government to set up agreements and establishments
jointly with partners, either local or foreign, to develop specific fishery
sectors on an industrial and commercial scale. Such agreements and ventures
are generally concluded for an initial period of one year and are renewable.
Three major joint ventures have been established to date, two with foreign
participation and one with a local company.
32.       Joint Yemeni-Soviet Committee for Lobster Fishing.  The agreement
was signed on August 29, 1971, between PDRY, USSR, and Straits Fisheries
Ltd., a private company incorporated in Singapore. The main purpose of
the Joint Committee is to catch, process (freeze), and market lobster tails
taken in the waters adjacent to PDRY.
33.       Catching and processing is undertaken by two Yemeni trawlers
("Shamsan" and "Fartak") and two USSR freezer trawlers (1,000 gross tons
each). The catch of the two Yemeni trawlers is transferred at sea to the
Soviet trawlers where it is processed and stored until transshipment from
the port of Aden.  The frozen product is marketed through the Singapore
company.
34.       The Yemeni Fish Meal Company.  This company was established in
December 1971 by the Corporation and the National Foundation for General



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Services, a private Yemeni group registered in Mukalla. The latter owned
a full set of fish meal equipment, valued at about US$300,000 and capable
of processing 150 tons of raw material per day, which it had bought from
Norway in 1966 but never put into operation. The purpose of the company
is to build and operate a fish meal and oil manufacturing plant to be
located at Khalf (Mukalla). FAO is providing some technical assistance.
35.       Yemeni-Japanese Agreement.  This agreement was signed in November
1969 between the Corporation and the Japanese Nichiro Fishing Company for
a period of one year, but it has so far been renewed annually. The company
has been granted the rights of trawling in PDRY's coastal waters and Govern-
ment receives a royalty, based on catches and CIF prices Yokohama. The main
fishing grounds exploited are those of Ras-Fartak and the main species sought
is cuttlefish, which makes up about 40% of total catches.
Development Assistance and Plans for the Future
36.       Since 1967, several bilateral projects have been identified for
the development of the fisheries of PDRY. In 1969 an FAO/UNDP/SF Fisheries
Development Project became operational; this project will terminate at the
end of 1972.
37.       USSR.  Under an agreement between PDRY and USSR for cooperation in
the field of fisheries, signed on February 7, 1969, a project to establish a
canning factory at Mukalla has been submitted to the Government. As a first
stage, the project would establish a factory at Mukalla, plus two receiving
stations at Bir-Ali and Qusayir. About 3,000 to 3,800 tons would be processed,
depending on species, and total output would be 10 to 14 million cans per
year. Total investment is estimated at 37.3 million shillings (or SYD
1,865,000).
38.       Estimated yearly earnings and operating costs of the whole complex
have been studied, using five alternatives, but only two shpw that a profit
can be expected through the processing of tuna and king mackerel, assuming
that raw material is purchased at no more than 25 fils per kg.
39.       People's Republic of China.  Within the general agreement for tech-
nical and economic cooperation signed in August 1970, a special agreement for
fisheries was signed in December 1971, providing for the following: two small
trawlers, cold storage ice-making and freezing facilities, and related equip-
ment. All would be located in Aden. The amount of the fisheries loan is not
known nor is the status of the proposal.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
40.       Denmark.  The Danish Development Agency, DANIDA, has earmarked
a sum of about US$2 million for development projects in PDRY. The request
from Government has not yet been finalized, but it most likely would cover
construction of three small freezing units (3.5 tons per day) with cold
storage (10 tons) in the interior and delivery of three insulated 5-ton
trucks.
41.       Multilateral Aid.  The bulk of the multilateral assistance has
been provided through the FAO/UNDP/SF Fishery Development Project, which
become operational on July 1, 1966, for a period of 5-1/2 years in the Gulf
of Aden. The project, due to terminate by the end of December 1971, was
extended for another year as a result of the FAO/IBRD/CP mission in June/July
1971. It has achieved its objectives in determining the availability and
size of the stocks of the most important commercial species and in demons-
trating trawling possibilities.
D. Institutional and Legal Framework
Administration and Legislation
42.       PDRY fisheries were administered by a Fisheries Department within
the Ministry of Agriculture until 1970 when a Public Corporation of Fish Wealth
was established under Law No. 18. The purpose of the law was to centralize
all fisheries decision-making for the country in one body that would have
overall responsibility for developing the fishing industry and fish marketing,
carrying out scientific research, providing training, and technical assistance,
and developing the fisheries cooperative movement. The new agency, formed by
combining the old Fisheries Department, the Fisheries Training Institute and
Research Center, and the National Cold Stora-e Corporation, was given finan-
cial and administrative independence although it remained attached to the
Ifinistrv of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. The duties and responsibilities
of the Minister to the Corporation, however, are detailed in the law as are
those of the Corporation's chairman and Director General.
43.       Subject to the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform's consent
vis-a-vis internal and the Prime M4inister's consent vis-a-vis external, the
Corporation may invest, conclude agreements with corporations and governments,
establish subsidiary companies in the fishing industry, and raise loans.
Approval of loans concluded with foreign and international organizations and
governments is made by law. The Corporation is exempt from all taxes (except
those onlincome), duties, and import excise, including customs, consumption,
and promotion duties; import permits for equipment and materials; and export
permits and export duties.
44.       By ministerial resolution, the Corporation mav transfer to its
ownership any income-producing national schemes in PDRY relating to the
fishing industry or enter into partnership with such national schemes
against reasonable compensation by bonds or otherwise.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
45.       Although Law 18 of 1970 presently governs the fisheries sector,
Government is now considering draft legislation, prepared by the Corporation
assisted by FAO, that would substantially amend its provisions. The proposed
legislation is in two parts, one dealing with the activities of the Corpora-
tion and the other with creation of a Government Department of Fisheries.
The purpose of the proposed legislation is much the same as that of the
existing law except that the objectives of the Corporation are more clearly
spelled out as being commercial in nature and include the development of
export trade. The new Department of Fisheries would assume the Corporation's
present responsibility for matters relating to research, technical assistance,
development of the cooperative societies, training and such, as well as
exercise broad management, financial and regulatory control over commercial
fisheries activities. Of particular importance to the project are the
provisions that call for improved fisheries statistics and for regulation
of the catch. Not only is statistical information particularly useful in
charting the course of future development, but a mechanism based on sound
data to preserve the highest sustainable catch of a given resource is needed,
especially for the lobster and turtle populations, which are very susceptible
to overfishing. In addition, a system is needed to limit entry into various
segnents of the fishery in order to avoid over-capitalization.
Present International Fisherv Jurisdiction in PDRY
46.       The current status of PDRY jurisdiction of the sea, based on the
best information available, is as follows:
Territorial Sea /1              12 nautical miles
Continental Shelf /1            to depth of 300 meters and
capability of use
Exclusive Fishery Zone          12 nautical miles
Security and Other Zones        12 + 6 nautical miles
/1   From Law No. 8 of February 9, 1970.
Clearly, the right to manage coastal fisheries within territorial waters
lies within the power of the coastal state, but, in recent years, distinc-
tions regarding ocean jurisdiction have been blurred by rapid changes in
attitudes and claims by individual governments to various ocean areas
beyond coastal limits. The sporadic trend toward seaward extensions of
fishery jurisdiction zones cannot be predicted for the countries adjacent
to the Gulf of Aden, but no particular problems are anticipated.
Training and Research
47.       A well equipped Training and Research Center was established in
Aden in July 1969, with USSR technical assistance and teaching staff. The



ANNEX 1
Page 11
training section prepares fishery experts and skilled fishermen for the
deep sea fleet. Fishermen are given a three-month course in groups of 30,
while intermediate and high-level students receive a four-to-five-year
advanced course; scholarships for university degrees abroad (UTSSR) and training
by commercial companies (Japan) are also granted. The research section carries
out investigations on fishery resources in the Gulf of Aden and on the utiliza-
tion and processing of fishery products.
48.       A Fisheries Research Station is located at Mukalla and from 1969
to 1971 it received substantial assistance from the USSR in training young
scientists in physical and biological oceanography. The present staff are
young Yemeni dedicated to improving the quality and quantity of scientific
information available from the Mukalla region, presently the most important
fisheries center in the country, and it is expected that the research it
has undertaken will also be of considerable value in developing the poten-
tials of the Fifth and Sixth Governorates. When some of the trainees now
in the USSR complete their studies, they will probably be assigned to
augment the currently small staff of the station.
E. Fisheries Credit
49.       Credit to cooperative societies has been made available since
early 1971 through a guaranteed fund administered by the Banking and Credit
Department of the National Bank of Yemen (NBY). Government guarantees, amount-
ing to SYD 400,000 (US$1.2 million) for the 1970/71 and 1971/72 Yemeni fiscal
years, have been committed and additional amounts have not yet been authorized.
Out of the total funds, about SYD 52,000 has been granted to fisheries coop-
eratives, mainly for transport equipment and outboard engines as detailed
below:
Purpose                        Loan Amount
(SYD)
Fishing Vessels                         6,700
Fishing Gear                             1,700
Transport Equipment                    21 ,900
Engines and Parts                      21,300
Total                        51 600
The loans have repayment periods of from one to two years, with a three-
month grace period, and bear an interest rate of 5%. No downpayment is
required and disbursements are made in kind. Performance under the fish-
eries loans is satisfactory to date - there are no bad debts and amounts
overdue are less than 5%.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
50.       All cooperatives are under the guidance and supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. Lending procedures under
this program require that the Department for Agrarian Reforms and Coopera-
tives review the cooperative's loan request and, in the case of a fisheries
loan, ask for technical evaluation by the Corporation. This documentation,
together with an appraisal of the cooperative's creditworthiness carried
out by NBY, serves as basis for final loan recommendation by the bank's
loan committee.
51.       Fisheries cooperatives have an additional source of credit in
the Corporation, which has over the past two years disbursed grants,
received in kind (mainly fishing gear, valued at about SYD 29,000), to
cooperative societies. No interest is charged and repayment periods range
from one to three years. Performance on these loans, however, is not so
satisfactory, except on the part of cooperatives in the Fifth Governorate
(project area) and amounts overdue run about 30%. One explanation might
be that the disbursement of grants is not regarded as a credit operation.
This program is administered by the Fisheries Services and Planning Depart-
ment, which has a staff of eight of whom two have intermediary training in
accounting.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Catch Statistics
(tons)
Average Catch in the Fifth Governorate
Fish 9pecies           per Year in Period 19 95             Catch at Mukalla and Shihr    Total Catch in PDRY
117/
Total Tuna                        1,400                                      3,500                       3,200
Yellowfin                                                                       2, 400
Skipjack                                                                          600
Bluefin                                                                           100
Other Tuna                                                                        400
Sardine                          90,000                                     87,000                      90,000
Kingfish                            400                                        450                       2,000
Mackerel                                                                                                    500
Shark                                                                          550                       1,000
Bream                                                                                                       250
Lobster                                                                        loo0/                        150
Turtle                                                                                                     500
Other Fish                        6,000                                        800                       6,500
TOTAL                      97,800                                     92,400                     104,100
1/   The available statistics have been ad.justed to the nearest 50 tons to avoid the impression
of greater precision.
2/   Tail weight.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Imports and Exports of Fish Products
(Tons)
1967      1968      1969      1970    1971
Imports
Sharkfin                          17.5      45.0      61.0      25.0       57.0
Frozen fish                        6.5       3.5       2.0       2.5        2.0
Salted, fried or
smoked fish                    874.5    556.5  1,127.5   1,740.0    734.5
Canned fish                    1,933.0   1,402.5   1,152.0   2,064.5      590.5
Total                     2,831.5   2,007.5   2,342.5   3,832.0   1,384.0
Exports
Sharkfin                         147.5    422.5    558.'5    262.5    102.0
Frozen fish                       51.5      42.5      39.0      76.5       95.0
Salted, dried or
smoked fish                  4,870.0   4,637.o   4,370.0   7,372.5   6,410.5
Canned fish                       39.0      33.5      37.5    107.0       147.0
Total                     5,108.0   5,135.5   5,005.0   7,818.5   6,754.5        
/ January-September only.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMN
FISHERIES PROJBC
Principal Fish Species Caught in PDRY
Pelagic Fish
Resource Size (RS)
Approximate                            and Tentative
Fishing Area;              Present                               Maximum Sustainable
Species                    Season                Production (tons)         Gear            Yield (M6Y) (tons)
Sardine;                   All along shore                                BeEch seine;         RS  1,000,000
Sardinella longiceps       mainly in Ras Fartak       50-100,000          Cast-net            M5Y    200,000 to
Shuqrs; Mukalla -                             Ring-net                   500,0o0
Shihr;
September - May
Anchovies                  Aden Qusayir up
to Oman;                10-20,000                                RS  200,000
September - May           10-20,000           Same as above       NSY   70,000
Mackerels                  All along coast;
September - May                2,000          Same as above;
Also hand-line      RS  200,000
MY   50,000
Tunas, Bonitos,            All along coast;
September - May               3,000           Ring-net;            RS  150,000     
Gill-net;          NSY   15,000         CD oo
Trolling                                  PI
Kingfish
Scomberomorus              same as tuna                   2,000           Same as above             50,000
-oinraerson                                                                                 MSY    %000



P(fWIZ'S DDNCBRATIC BWUENIC OF mml                              ANNEX 1
FISHmIIFS PR0JET                                      Appendix 1
Table 2
Principal Fiah SPecieo Caught in PDRY
Demersal Fish
Resource Size (RS)
Approximate                         and Tentative
Fishing Area;                 Present                            ?hximum Sustainable
Species                    Season                   Production (tons)      Gear            Yield (HSY) (tons)
Lizard fish;                Has Fartak                                                          RS 50,000
Saurida tumbilets           Aden Kuria-                                                        MSY 10,000
-ri& Raa
Madraka;                                      Bottom trawl
all year
Barracuda;                  same as Tuna;                                  Drift - net;         RBS 10,000
Sphyraena                   Harcb - September          50                  Long - line;        HSY  2,000
Hand - line;
Bottom trawl
Rock Code;                  All along coast;                               Hand - line;
Serranidae                  rocky patches;                                 Bottom long-line;   RS  20,000
and trawl prounds          500                 Bottom trawl       NSY   4,000
florse  Mackerl;            Ras Fartak;
Decapteruw Kilich           Aden;                                                               RS 100,000
Kuria-Muria;               500                Bottom trawl        HSY  10,000 -
all year                                                                20,000
Large Jackfish              Same es lizard
Carangidae                 fish;                      1,300               Bottom trawl;         RS 50,000
all year                                      Hand-line etc.       ?SY  5,000 -
10,000
Thresdfin breso             Raa Fartak;
(Antakh)                  Aden;                           2,000          Bottom trawl         RS  100,000
Nemipterus opp              all year                                                          MSY   10,000
Lethrinidae                 Rocky patches                                  Bottom long-line    RS   50,000
Mormora                     and trawl grounds;             500-1,000+      Bottom trawl        MSY    5,000
Lethrinella eta.            same as cod;                                   Hand-line
all year
Breams
S9aridee                                                                                        RS  300,000
Denticidae                  all year                   10,000              Hand-line, etc.    HBY  30,000
Lutjanidee etc.
Ribbon fish                 Ras Fartak;
Trichiurus op.              Raa ?b.draka;                                                       RS  10,000
April - Nay;                                   Bottom trawl       HSY    1,000
October                        ?



PEOPLETS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Principal Fish Species Caught in PDRY
Invertebrates
Resource Size (RS)
Approximate                           and Tentative
Fishing Area;             Present                               Maximum Sustainable
Species                   Season                 Production (tons)         Gear          Yield (MSY) (tons)
Cuttlefish                 Ras Fartak;
Sepia pharsonis            Aden Kuria - Muria;          4,000              Bottom trawl        RS   100,000
all yeer                                                          MSY    10,000
Squid                      West of Ras Fartak;
Foligo duvauceltii         Madraka;                     Little            Bottom trawl
all year
Small Spiny Lobster        Aden;
PaelurusS.                 Maqatin;                                                            RS  3,000
Bal Haf;                     100              Bottom trawl        MSY  about 200
Sayhuti                                                                   (tails)
July - March
Rock Lobster               Mukalla;                                       Bottom nets          RS  2,000
Panuluris Homarus          Ras Fartak;                 120                Pots                MSY    250
Divers
Shrimp                     Maqatin;
Ras Fartak;                 ?                 Bottom trawl                               a2g
all year
'JJ_
_  ,     , _   _ . .           .   _h~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~






ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Species And Development Potential
1.        The nature, magnitude, and value of available fish resources plus
the geological, economic and demographic environment of PDRY, so far, have
not been particularly favorable to large-scale fisheries resource development.
With improved infrastructure and access to international markets, however,
there is great development potential.
Pelagic Resources
2.        Surface-associated fish are the most abundant fishery resources
in PDRY waters because of the unusually strong upwelling and consequent
large production of phytoplankton and zooplankton upon which the larger fish
feed and because the very narrow continental shelf limits the extent of
bottom fish grounds.
3.        Sardine.  The Indian oil sardine, Sardinella longiceps, is the
most plentiful local species. Estimates of the annual sustainable yield
vary from 200,000 to 500,000 tons. This species inhabits the coastal waters
along the southern shore of the Arabian Peninsula from the Red Sea up to
the Straits of Hormuz and beyond at depths from 40 to 50 m. In PDRY,
sardines are caught by local fishermen, using round haul nets, beach seines,
and cast nets, primarily in the Fifth and Sixth Governorates, but experiments
in purse-seining have been successfully carried out by the FAO/UNDP/SF Proj-
ect vessel (more than 15 tons per set in the Aden-Mukalla and Ras Fartak areas
in 1970-71). The main concentrations of oil sardine are in the eastern part
of the Fifth Governorate and in the Sixth Governorate, but no port facilities
are available in the vicinity to off-load nor are there other facilities
such as water and electricity for processing at this time. Plans have been
drawn up to build and operate a fish meal and oil processing plant to be
located at Khalf, Mukalla (see Annex 1, para 34). Over time, this resource
will undoubtedly become more important, particularly if other agricultural
user activities, poultry and livestock, for example, develop. Furthermore,
as port and other infrastructures are developed in the Sixth Governorate to
handle the more valuable resources such as cuttlefish and lobster, the
harvest of oil sardine for fish meal may become more attractive.
4.        Tuna.  Four species of tuna are caught by local fishermen, using
hooks (trolling) and drift nets, and, in inshore waters, round haul nets:



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 2
wavy-backed skipjack or little tunny (Euthynnus affinis); stripped tuna or
skipjack (Euthynnus/Katsuwonus pelamis); bluefin (Thunnus tongoll); and
yellowfin tuna (Thunnus Albacares). FAO estimates place the abundance of
total tuna in the Gulf of Aden at about 150,000 tons, of which perhaps
15,000 tons per year might be caught. The local fishermen do not differentiate
between little tunny and skipjack and recent studies have revealed that little
tunny, xwhich has no significant value on international markets, makes up the
bulk of landings of what are called skipjack in PDRY.  Although relatively
large landings of yellowfin were recorded in 1970 and 1971, the migration
pattern of this species is still not well known, and experience over the last
10 years, especially in Somalia, has shown that yellowfin catches fluctuate
erratically from year to year.
5.        For the international canning market, the yellowfin and skipjack
are the most valuable. In the Asian speciality markets, however, bluefin
tuna, if properly frozen and carefully handled, brings extremely high prices.
Therefore, because world supplies of this species are limited, but resources
are fairly abundant in PDRY waters (bluefin is the most common tuna), it is
believed that this market, if it were developed, could be a source of con-
siderable foreign exchange.
6.        The behavior of the tuna is important in making recommendations
regarding its harvest. Compact surface schools are rarelv found in PDRY
waters; the fish occur at or near the surface singly or in small groups
much as they do near islands in the mid-Pacific Ocean. They cannot, there-
fore, be caught in commercial quantities with purse-seine gear, and tuna
live bait methods are unknown in the region. Trolling gear and round haul
nets, however, can be used in shallow water. Although the main concentra-
tions of tuna appear to be farther offshore than most of the smaller sambuks
can go, larger ice-carrying sambuks using trolling and drift net methods
would be able to significantly increase their catches. The fishermen com-
monly detect the occurrence of tuna by observing the behavior of porpoise
and sea birds, and, with experience, they can also determine the tuna species
by becoming familiar with particular associated bird species and their
behavior while flying and feeding near the surface of the water. In this
way, the more valuable species could, to some extent, be fished selectively,
increasing earnings and efficiency.
7.        Other Pelagic Species.  Of considerable local importance are the
kingfish, mackerels, queenfish, yellowtail (Seriola sp.), and black runner.
Only the queenfish, Chorinemis, would be important for export, being very
pcpuiar in Hawaii and West Coast USA ports, where it is sold under the
.aaes 'lahimahi, at an excellent price. Experimental catches of this fish
in commercial quantities near Hfukalla are the only knot.m records of such
catches by purse seine. Total resource availability of this fish is not
known, but catches projected for the project area are conservative, based
on available data.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 3
Demersal Resources
8.        Even though the continental shelf along the Arabian coast of the
Gulf is narrow, this is compensated for in part by the great quantities of
plankton produced and by the great number of bottom species caught (more
than 300). Two main areas are exploited - the narrow shelf near Aden and
the wider shelf area off Ras-Fartak in the Sixth Governorate - the latter
being by far the more productive. According to FAO/UNDP/SF project studies,
it appears that fish in the Aden area are younger and smaller than those in
other areas and catches per trawling hour are comparatively small. In all
areas, however, catch composition changes seasonally, although total landings,
in quantitative terms, do not fluctuate very much from month to month.
9.        There are two commercially proven demersal resources -- the cuttle-
fish and the deep sea spinv lobster - and good catches have been made, both
by commercial trawlers and by experimental trawlers. With the exception of
the fishery for cuttlefish and the deep sea spiny lobster, the resource po-
tentials for other trawlable species by large vessels (over 700 gross tons)
do not appear to be attractive. While about 100 of the bottom species caught
are commercially important, the size of some of the most valuable ones, such
as the threadfin bream, is too small to attract high prices on the interna-
tional market. Additionallv, some of the most valuable species, which could
attract very high prices on the Asian specialty market -- rose bream (Sakuradai),
for example -- are subject to severe discoloration on freezing. The cause of
this is not known, but it might be avoided with better handling of the catch.
10.       The main method of fishing for the demersal species is by hook
and line and it appears to be the best way. Hook-and-line-caught fish tend
to be laraer on the average per species than trawl catches and are in much
better phvsical condition. Additionally, some selectivity is possible as
to species caughit. Ilse of this method also opens up rocky areas inaccessible
to trawl gear but ricli in larger, more valuable species.
11.       It is expected that catches of threadfin and rose bream in the
project area can be significantly increased and that these and other bottom
species will be an important part of the commercial catch. However, these
resources will not offer the basis for a fishery utilizing large trawlers
operating from ports such as Aden. The potential annual yield of demersal
species (mainly red snapper, bream, rock fish and horse mackerel) is estimated
at about 45,000 to 50,000 tons, compared to present landings of only about
10,000 to 15,000 tons.
Crustacean Resources
12.       Two different stocks are being exploited:  spiny or rock lobster
(Panuluris homarus) and the deep sea spinv lobster (Paelurus sevelli).



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 4
13.       Rock Lobster.  These are caught along the coast of the Fifth
Governorate by local fishermen, using traps and cast nets, and then collected
by land rovers, fitted with small insulated ice boxes, for transport to
Nukalla where tails are individually frozen in the blast freezer of the
Corporation. In 1971, about 90 tons of frozen lobster tails were exported
from Mukalla. Because of the poor road conditions, exploitation can take
place only along a 130-km stretch of coastline, from Burum to Dis-Hami,
although lobster stocks were surveyed in 1963 along a much larger area (from
Bir-Ali to Musyna'ah) and the annual sustainable yield was then conservatively
estimated at about 45 to 90 tons of tails. A biologist is being appointed
under the FAO/UNDP/SF project to study the lobster stoccs in the area extend-
ing eastward of Musyna'ah up to the M1uscat and Oman border and it is believed
that they will be greater than those now being exploited in Lne Fifth Gov-
ernorate.
14.       Deep Sea Spiny Lobster.  Small deep sea lobsters are fouind in the
Gulf from Bab-el-Mandeb to Suyhut.  Main fishing grouinds are east of Aden
and in the Magatin, Bal-Haf, and Sayhut areas, the most important concentra-
tions being in the Maqatin area (off the Fourth Governorate), which is about
7 km wide and 40 km long. This species is trawled in 200 to 500 m of water
and the catch is seasonal, ranging from none to a maxinum of 1,700 kg of
tails per day. It would appear that about 200 to 300 tons of tails per year,
valued at US$500,000 to US$1 million per year FOB would be a reasonable as-
sessment of potential. This resource was discovered by a cooperative research
program between the USSR and PDRY and experimental commercial catches have
been made since then by USSR trawlers operating under tie terms of a bilateral
agreement (see Annex 1, para 32 and 33).  The future de'velopment of this fish-
ery is unclear, but it is likely that the small trawlers ow.ned bv the Govern-
ment -will take over the harvest when the crews have gained sufficient expe-
rience.  The catch has so far been marketed only -_  i-7aTorc- b-t markets
may be found elsewhere since demand is high.
Hollusk Resources
15.       A particular characteristic of the Gulf of Aden is the presence
of important stocks of cuttlefish, Sepia pharaonis, which are found in
shallow 7waters (10 to 80 m) in large commercial concentrations. Most
productive grounds are off the Ras-Fartak area in the Sixth Gov,ernorate.
This species is not caught by local fishermen, however, for lack of domestic
demand, although commercial exploitation has been carried out since about
1969 by the Nichiro Fishing Company, under an agreement wtith the PDRY
.overmment. Annual production of the Japanese trawlers uwas about 4,000 to
3.. 'O tons in 1971 and it is estimated that this output could be further
rncrz!ased. Japan is almost the sole market for this product, where it is
hi,,Thlv favored and expensive (US$1,500/ton Tokyo w¢holesale).  Because the
cuttlefish are so muchi more valuable than the fish portion of the catch,
muc/1 of the latter is discarded.  Indications from Japanese fish buyers,



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 5
however, are that the quality of the trawler fish that is frozen and sold
in Japan is not as high as might be expected, possibly due to the time lapse
between catching and freezing during which cuttlefish have priority for
processing.
Other Potential Resources
16.       Squid have been caught in commercial quantities and experimental
export shipments have been made. In the future, squid may provide a small
resource in the order of at least 500 tons per year from the Fifth and the
Sixth Governorate for export to European and Asian markets.
17.       Pink shrimp have been taken in small quantities and because of
the lack of brackish water areas and the very sharply limited grounds
available for shrimp spawning, the species is not expected to provide more
than an incidental catch within the lobster or other small trawl fisheries.
18.       The shovel-nose lobster may also provide an increase of perhaps
50 to 100 tons of incidental catch to that of the spiny lobster.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Proposed Shore Facilities
A. Principal Considerations
Fishing Activities
1.        The fishing grounds at Shihr are more productive than those
at Mukalla and of the 15 ton per day required for project operations it is
estimated that 10 ton would be caught at Shihr and 5 ton at Mukalla. At
Shihr the boats are landed on an open sandy beach and the fish is carried
in barrows to a fish market in the town about 500 m from the beach. At
Mukalla the fish is landed on a small beach and carried to a nearby market
in the crowded part of the town immediately west of the promontory on which
is sited the main customs wharf.
2.        Khalf Peninsula, on the east side of Mukalla Bay, provides some
sheltered water and a small jetty has been constructed. Fish drying and
fishing vessel construction are carried on at Khalf and construction of a
fish meal plant there has just been commenced. The research station of the
Public Corporation of Fish Wealth (Corporation) is also located at Khalf.
Communications and Harbor Facilities
3.        Shihr is connected to Mukalla by a 66-km road, of which about 36 km
are cobbled and in reasonably good condition. The remainder is in very poor
condition and at low tides it is preferable to drive along the beach. It
is, however, expected that the entire stretch of road will be improved within
the next five years.
4.        Shihr lies on an open coast with no natural protective features
and is exposed to strong wave action during the monsoon. The sandy beach
is flat, the 5-m depth line being some 500 m offshore. Some general cargo
is landed by beaching small lighters, but there is no prospect of construct-
ing a port facility enabling export goods to be loaded onto lighters in
large packages except at very great expense. The cost of constructing
breakwaters to beyond the surfline would be prohibitive and substantial
littoral drift would be likely, leading to heavy maintenance dredging costs.
5.        Although Mukalla is the second most important port in the
Republic, it contains no deep water berths. Ocean-going vessels anchor
in the Bay and goods are taken ashore in lighters, principally to the customs



ANNEX 2
Page 2
wharf in Mukalla town itself. The trade is increasing rapidly and imports
in 1971 were in excess of 100,000 ton. Mukalla Bay is exposed to the
southwest monsoon and vessels do not normally call between June and September.
6.        Khalf Peninsula is some 1-1/2 km along an unpaved road from
Mukalla and consists of a rocky hill rising to 140 m, to the north of
which the ground is gently sloping. A narrow jetty has been constructed
to about the 5-m depth line. Sheltered water lies between this jetty and
the east side of the Bay and customs authorities have recently constructed
a length of shallow wharf and reclamation for landing and storing non-
perishable general cargo goods such as building materials.
Infrastructure and Services
7.        Mukalla.  The electricity-generating station at Mukalla is
located some 3 km to the northwest of the town. The installed capacity is
3.24 H6  (two sets of 1,078 kva, two of 650 and two of 325).  The present
maximum demand is limited by the low capacity of the transmission line
to MIkalla, but the situation should improve by the end of 1973 when a
new 3.3-kv line is due to be completed. This line is planned to terminate
at Mukalla and not continue for the remaining 1-1/2 km to Khalf. The
capacity of the present spur line to Khalf is 500 km only and the present
peak demand is 250 km. The Public Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP)
is reluctant to plan and construct an improved line to khalf until a firm
estimate of the demand there is available and until the road to Khalf has
been improved, as the transmission line would be at risk during blasting
operations necessary for the road improvement.
8.        The present tariff structure is based on khw consumption only and
it anpears to be the intention that this should remain. Higher rates
are charged for consumption during peak hours (between 5 and 11 p.m.), and
i~IEF had indicated that the rate for cold store would be in the range of
't to !5 fils per kwh during normal hours, and 20 to 25 fils during peak
llours, The total demand at l0talf is expected to be 1.5 MW kincluding the
f ss meal plant) and for a load of this magnitude, PCEP would provide a
y at 3.3 kv at Khalf, with no charge for the transmission line; the
proect would, however, have to bear the cost of a transformer.
9.        Water for Mukalla is obtained from boreholes around 20 m deep
-'..--ed about 10 km from Mukalla.  The water flows through a 300-mn
'ianeter pipe to Mukalla, thence by 100-mm diameter pipe to storage tanks
430 m3 capacity, one of which is situated close to Khalf.  The
e<- r-tconsumption is around 1,600 ton per day in winter and 1,800 in
this is increasing steadily by some 10% per annum and at times
a shortage in summer.  To overcome this, there are plans to sink
. -s-t1r two or three boreholes and to increase the diameter of the main
-nue ~ting the storage tanks.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       Shihr. The electricity station at Shihr contains two sets of
123 kva (seven years old) and one 255 kva and is in the process of
instalELng a new set of 520 kw. The total installed capacity will then
be more than 900 kw, compared with a current maximum demand of 240/250 kw.
Present tariffs are 50 fils per kwh for lighting and 25 for powerh and it
was indicated that all the electricity required could be provided at
the 25-fil rate. Distribution is by 440-v, three-phase ring main and
there is a stepdown transformer within 700 m of the proposed site.
11.       Water at Shihr is obtained from shallow wells; a new well is
being constructed but water yield and quality are not expected to be
sufficient.
B. Proposed Operations
General
12.       It is proposed to site the main project facility in the Mukalla
area because:
(1)  an adequate supply of fresh water is available for icemaking
and processing; and
(2)  the Shihr area is unsuitable for providing port facilities
for handling exports.
13.       A site on the Khalf Peninsula proposed by the Corporation is
recommended, since it has adequate land area, 3heltered water for loading,
and is sufficiently far from Mukalla town to avoid a smell nuisance.
Although an adequate electric supply line to Khalf is likely to be
provided in the future, it is not yet programmed. Since standby diesel-
generated power is necessary for the cold stores, the project is based on
self-contained power generation. A decision can be taken before physical
work starts as to whether this is necessary or whether the public power
supply to Khalf can be improved by the time it is needed. It is proposed
to construct only a receiving station at Shihr where ice would be kept
before loading onto the boats and where fish would be chilled and stored
for a short time before transporting back to Mukalla. Insulated trucks
would travel daily between Mukalla and Shihr transporting ice to Shihr and
bringing fish to Mukalla. Radio communication would provide information
necessary to integrate operations. At Mukalla, fish would be processed
if necessary and held in cold storage until dispatched to the export
markets by reefer vessels. The frozen fish would be transported by
lighter between the cold store and the vessels. See Drawing No. 6952 for
the flow diagram for project operations.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Detailed Description
Mukalla
14.       Facilities.  Cold storage would be required at Mukalla for 800
ton of frozen fish. (This quantity has been selected taking into account
the expected frequency of arrival of the reefer ships, particularly before
and after the monsoon period.) Six stores are proposed, four of 114 m2
and two of 80 m2.  The stores would be 3.5 m high and maintained when in
use at a temperature of -25°C. They would be arranged along an anteroom
4 m wide maintained at -5° C which would be used for loading the fish onto
pallets prior to export. Cold storage volume has been determined by
assuming that the piles of frozen fish occupy a maximum of 66% of the gross
volume of the cold store rooms, the average density of stacked whole fish
being taken as 0.5. The remaining space would be taken up by ventilation
and work area. The height of the cold stores has been limited to 3.5 m as
it is intended that fish handling should be done manually. Handling by
mechanical means is not considered desirable, since most fish would be
whole fish which does not lend itself as easily to mechanical handling as
fish in cartons.
15.       There will be three freezing units, each of 25 m , capable of
freezing 15 ton of fish to 1250 C in an 18-hour day. If worked for a 24-hour
day, the capacity would be 20 ton which would enable peak arrivals to be
frozen, but for normal operations the 18-hour day would enable advantage
to be taken of the lower electricity tariff during off-peak hours if mains
electricity is used.
16.       An ice-making plant capable of producing 25 ton per day of block
ice would be required, together with 96 m of ice storage with a 150-ton
capacity kept at -5 C and a daily store of 48 m2 kept at 00 C. The ice
m.,iild be produced in blocks at 22 kg. An ice crusher would be provided
outside the daily store.
1-f.      A processing room of 250 m  would be required, to be maintained
aLt 180 C, as well as offices, stores, workshops, etc.
i`3       An electrically operated crane of 1 ton loading capacity would be
p rovided on the wharf for loading pallets of frozen fish into the lighters.
liisulation thicknesses would be as follows:
Floor, ceiling and            Internal walls
external walls                  _
-------------------- mm ------------------
Coi.d Stores                         250                            75
Freezing Room                        300                           100
Anteroom and Ice Store               150                            50
Daily Store Room                     100                            50
Se-- Drawing No. 6936 for details.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
19.       Operation.  The ice produced at Mukalla would either be transported
in insulated trucks to Shihr, or crushed and taken to sea in fishing boats
stationed at Mukalla, following the same operation as at Shihr. Fish would
be received either in trucks from Shihr or direct from boats at Mukalla.
Some lobsters would also be brought direct to Mukalla. Fish from the
boats would be checked by a clerk and weighed on arrival while the fish
from Shihr would pass straight into the processing room. In the processing
room fish arrivals from Mukalla would be cleaned, and any processing by way
of beheading, gutting and filletting, would be carried out according to
market requirements. Lobsters would also be cleaned before freezing.
20.       The fish would be frozen in one of the freezing chambers.  If
electricity from the central supply is used and it is not necessary to
operate during peak hours on that day, fish ready for freezing but with
insufficient time before the start of the peak period would be stored
temporarily in the cold store anteroom or the daily store in order to avoid
partial freezing. Filletted fish would be frozen in their cartons. Frozen
fish would then be glazed and stored by specia in the cold stores and
await arrival of the reefer ships. The fish would be delivered to the
reefer vessels on pallets transported by lighters. It is proposed that
pallets be 1 ton capacity with solid bottoms and with sides formed of a
galvanized steel mesh, one end being openable. They would be draped with
an insulated quilt to minimize heat gain during transport. The fish would
be loaded onto the pallets in the passage between the cold stores. The
pallets would be moved within the store on trolleys. The tare weights
of each pallet and trolley would be known and each full trolley load would
be weighed before leaving the cold store anteroom. Trolleys would be
towed to the quay by a landrover or light tractor and pallets would be
loaded into the lighters by crane. The port of Mukalla possesses lighters
of up to 80-ton capacity but only the smaller lighters would be required,
as it is proposed that the maximum load on any lighter be limited to 5
ton net weight to reduce the time the frozen fish is exposed to high tem-
peratures. The pallets would be lifted into the reefer vessel by the ship's
gear, the insulated quilt removed and the contents of the pallet tipped on
the floor. The fish would be stacked manually in the ship's cold stores
and it is anticipated that a handling rate of 6 ton per hour per hatch
would be the maximum that could be achieved. To reduce spoilage, it is
recommended that loading be done at night.
21.       Siting of Cold Store.  There are two possible sties for the cold
store at Khalf. The first is on the new reclamation site formed for cargo
storage and the second is on relatively flat ground at the base of
Khalf hill. The first site would create a conflict with the operation of
the commercial port. This site also has the disadvantage that is new, and
so the stability of the retaining walls is open to doubt, particularly if
heavy loads such as building foundations are placed fairly near them. Also,
excessive settlement may occur if the store is located on the reclamation
site. The second site has the disadvantage that rock excavation would be
involved, which is costly. To reduce this as far as possible, the cold



ANNEX 2
Page 6
store would have to be constrained into a relatively long and narrow
layout which is less economical than a roughly square building.
22.       Taking all factors into account, it is considered that the
second site has more to commend it and it is proposed that the facility be
located there. Excavation would be reduced as far as possible by stepping
the foundations so that the machinery rooms and offices are at a higher
level than the processing rooms and stores. See Drawing No. 6938 for further
details.
23.       Siting of Lighter Loading.  Lighters could be loaded either at
the new wharf or at the end of the existinng jetty. The jetty, however, is
not wide enough to be used for large-scale loading and widening would involve
considerable expense. The wharf has the drawback that the water alongside
is shallow -- less than 1 m below chart datum (the level of the lowest
low tide) -- and surveys indicate that the nature of the sea bed would
make deepening extremely expensive. However, the water is seldom lower
than 1/2 m above the absolute lowest tide level (between 1 and 1-1/2 m
above the sea bottom). Since the lighter load has to be restricted for
other reasons, there is no need for a deep draft alongside and the infrequent
occasions when lightering must take place in extremely shallow water can
be accepted. The 1972 tide tables for Aden show 26% of the low tides are
lower than 0.5 m (180 tides per year). However, only 86 of the 180 occur
during hours lightering would take place and 60 of the 86 are in the monsoon
months, June through September. During the remaining 26 low tides, when
there would be less than 1-1/2 m of water at the berth, the restriction is
only likely to apply for a maximum of about three hours. These figures
relate to Aden in 1972 but the tidal range at Mukalla is of the same order
as at Aden and the characteristics of the tides there can be expected to
be roughly similar. The wharf site is therefore recommended. See Drawing
No. 6938 for details.
4.       Water.  Water for ice-making, glazing, cleaning, filletting, and
-frosting could be obtained from the city water supply. There is a
450-m3 storage tank near Khalf and the main supply line from this line to
M%kalla passes within 300 m of the site. About 100 ton per day would be
required, which should be well within the capacity of the commercial
cfpp2y. The water quality is believed to be good but tests should be
' irried out to determine if treatment is necessary. Although there is
s'fficient water for processing purposes, it would not be enough for cooling
the condensers, compressors, and generators and it is, therefore, proposed
that sea water be used for this purpose. The quantity involved would be
OS" ton per hour and an underwater pipeline with a pumphouse situated on the
w.ater's edge would be the most appropriate way of obtaining it. Deep
WaFer is present close inshore, which would be of considerable help as it
v-ld; likely be appreciably cooler than the surface water, and also cleaner.
iSare .st be taken, however, in siting the intake to avoid contamination
irom any foul water outfalls in the area, particularly that from the fish
.J plant which would probably produce a substantial quantity of effluent.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
The location of effluent discharge is not yet known.
25.       Electricity.  Although the long-term prospect for a mains
electricity supply to Khalf is good, the immediate prospect is less certain
and in the capital and operating cost estimates it has been assumed that a
self-contained generating station will be required to supply the entire
demand. Fuel consumption would be 400 ton per year, although storage for
50 ton would be all that would be needed as there are oil tanks at Khalf
in excess of 10,000 ton capacity. A supply from the mains would be
marginally cheaper and a decision can be taken when the project is implemented
as to whether diesel generation should be included to meet the entire demand.
Even if mains electricity is used, sufficient diesel generating capacity
should be installed to meet the load demanded by the cold store itself.
The cost of this would be justified by the value of the products at risk in
the event of a power failure.
26.       Waste Disposal.  Waste would be discharged directly into the
sea and the only treatment required would be a macerator to reduce the size
of the particles.
27.       In addition to the managerial staff about 50 permanent laborers
would be required for the operation.
Shihr
27.       Facilities.  The receiving station layout proposed is shown on
Figure 2, and comprises: (i) a 25-m2 fish chilling and storage area main-
tained at around 0° C, partly by melting ice and partly by refrigeration;
(ii) an ice store of around 14 m2 maintained at -5° C, torether with an
ice crusher; (iii) a shaded concrete slab of around 180 m , on which these
stores would be located (together with the associated machinery room and
office) -- the remaining area being taken up by fish cleaning benches,
weighing scales, and a loading platform. See Drawing No. 6953 for details.
29.       Operation.  The receiving station could be located approximately
100 m inshore from the center of the present fish landing beach, near some
buildings used for fish curing. This site is within a short distance of the
fresh water and electricity lines, and adjacent to a road giving direct access
to the center of Shihr. Insulated trucks would arrive from Mukalla carrying
ice blocks and nestable plastic tubs of around 100 kg capacity. On arrival
at Shihr the ice blocks would be loaded into the ice store. When vessels
leave on fishing trips, the requisite amount of ice from the store would
be crushed and carried down to the boat in baskets and loaded into an
insulated box once the boat is afloat. Crushed block ice is preferred to flake
ice for this purpose as it would not tend to melt so rapidly while being
transported in the high temperatures.
30.       Ice would be carried on the boats in the ratio of 1 ton of ice
to 1 ton of fish. When the fishermen return with their catch, they would



ANNEX 2
Page 8
carry species suitable for export to the receiving station, clean them on
the benches using salt water, weigh them and offer them to the clerk for
sale. If acceptable, the fish would then be placed in the plastic tubs
between layers of crushed ice and taken into the fish store. The fish
would be chilled by the melting of some of the ice and the tubs of fish
and ice would be taken back to Mukalla in the insulated truck when a full
load has been assembled, or at the end of the day. Up to the point of
weighing, the fish would be handled by the local fishermen; after weighing,
by employees of the Corporation. Lobsters caught near Shihr would be
brought live to the receiving station, killed and tails packed in ice for
transport to Mukalla.
31.       Electricity.  Demand would be small, about 10 kw, which can readily
be supplied by the local station. It is not proposed to include a standby
generator in the project, since the consequences of a power failure are small,
involving at the most the loss of some 10 ton of fish.
32.       Water.  The fresh water supply appears inadequate for the
quantities required for cleaning, so it is proposed to use sea water.
The best way of obtaining it would probably be by sinking a shallow tubewell
in the sand near the site of the receiving station.
33.       Labor.  For operating the receiving station at Shihr, it is
proposed that two clerks and six laborers be employed.



PEOPLE'S, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Site at Mukalla
_ _ _TO MUKALLA TOWN 1.5 YM
EXISTING CONCRETE/GRAVE YARD
I  I PROPOSED NEW
/ IgCOLD STORE                              KHALF HI/LL
NEWLY CONSTRUCTED WHARF    '        I  I AND ICE PLANT
AND RECLAMATION FOR        '       I  |
CARGO STORAGE                          |
54,                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~FISH                   I~XS~ 
LOADINGHOS 
%   CRANE          L.-    -ETF TZa-
AREATOEE LE-FT-CL-EAR
FOR FISH LOADING                 _
EXISTING~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~,.                          STTO
i   CONtRETr                                              ''
"' C._- ' | | \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P C F W RESEARCH
AREA FOR NEW
FISHMEAL PLANT
IRREGULAR ROCKS                                 . ,
0   IS  20  30  40  so101
w % - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Layout of Shore Facilities at Mukalla
ICE          ICe            FISH
COLD         j          COLD          IICE                                                             ICE                  DAILY         TO         TO LOCAL      FROM LOCAL 
STORE   -                                                         I                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHIHR    BOATS    BOATS
STORE                   STORE                             MAKING ROOM                                 STORE                 STORE
F N            NO I                     NO 2                                25T/OAY                                                                      F             T
3                       3
ILIGHTERS              BRIDGE            --.A                                                                                                                         HH 
S                 |   | >,      FREEleR    S__4~NO.1     PROCESSING         
I                   I~       ~~~~~~ ROIOM
COLD                           COLD                           COLD                          COLD                t
STORE                          STORE                          STORE                         STORE                          NO.       2
NO 3                           NO 4                           NO.5                          NO.6                         FREEZER                                              I
(47NO m31                      1470  (3 I                     (470 m3 I                     (470 m31                                          I
:s FREEZER        I__ 
STPS UP
Ir_ _            _        _       _             __          _       _       _       _      __                   _       _       _    _                          ____ P                    1
MACHINERIY, STANDBY GENERATOPiI                                                                                                                                  i
WORKSHOP STORES ETC                                                           OFFICES LOCKER ROOM                               PALLET STORE
I  OFFICES. LOCKER ROOMS,                        ~~~~~~AND REPAIRI AN
JLl  |                 TOILETS. ETC                                CARTON ASSEME,
g   t  -  .  .. . ' .. __ ... - --- §~~                                                                                                  -    
FUEL. SALT AND FRESH WATER STORAGE,
CONOENSERS, ETC                                            I                             LINE OF ROOF
OVER
FLOWS                                                                                               0            5           10                       20 m
INCOMING
FiSH  @8jX ..................
OLITGGICI>4  
FISH






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Layout of Receiving Station at Shihr
l                                                                             l
TO SHIHR                                                                                      CLERK AND
AND MUIALLA                                                                                       SCALES                    i
_______________________ __r----------------_I------                                              .
CHILLNG                E
LINE OF
ROOF OVER                        MACHINERY             OFFICE
0 1    2     3    4     5,
about l OOm'                                 
Wo,rd Bank-6953






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Flow Diagram
ICE 18T/DAY (IOT ON BOATS,
3T CHILLING. 5 T RETURN)
MUKALLA                                                                         SHIHR
COLD S-rORE/ICE                                                                  RECEIVING
PLANT                                                                         STATION
U.                                                 FISH lOT/DAY PACKED IN
ICE(5 T/DAY_)
00 <1                                       K 0>
l  _                            3 RETURN TRIPS/DAY
World Bank-6952






ANNEX 3
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Detailed Description of Projezt Vessels
Design of Proposed Fishing Vessels
1.        The fishery in the project area developed historically from the
maximum vessel size which could be propelled by oar and sail. In recent
years, these wooden 6-m vessels were fitted with outboard engines of 6-9
hp, not particularly suited for heavy-duty fishing operations (Annex 1).
They require replacement after only three years of operations. Investments
in mechanization are justified, but limited, because the vessel design
affects seaworthiness and the size and variety of fishing gear that can be
used. The inboard sambuk (Annex 1), however, is well suited for mechanization
and fishing results are by far superior to those achieved by other craft,
which accounts for the large number among newly built boats. This vessel
design is therefore recommended for project purposes. Modifications would
include an insulated ice-box to preserve fish quality after catch. In
addition, it is recommended to construct a small number of demonstration
vessels based on a report by a naval architect who visited PDRY in 1971.
It is expected that he would initially supervise construction of fishing
vessels. Principally, the same design, including ice-box, would be used
and a mechanical line/net hauler would be introduced to increase fishing
capacity and efficiency. If these vessels prove to be successful, a line!
net hauler could be fitted later at low cost on other vessels as well.
Drawing No. 6937 in this Annex shows a traditional vessel with the proposed
modifications.
Estimated Fishing Capacity Required for Fleet Replacements
2.        Local consumption has been relatively stable -- around 5,500 ton
annually (excluding sardines) in the project area, of which about 2,300 ton
are landed in Mukalla and 3,200 ton in Shihr. The fishing fleet comprises
about 250 outboard sambuks (wooden 6-m vessels) and some inboard sambuks
(wooden 14-m vessels). Detailed statistics for the age distribution of this
fleet are not available; however, information gathered in the field indicates
that about one-third of the outboard sambuks needs replacing over the next
four to six years. In addition, 1972 storms damaged the fleet heavily and
many vessels operate with make-shift repairs. Without new investments, an-
nual production would drop by about one-third (about 2,100 tons) and to meet
local demand, about 38 inboard sambuks would be required.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Estimated Potential for Fleet Expansion
3.        Fleet expansion in the project area would be possible but it has
two constraints: (i) the number of additional fishing crews that would be
available, and (ii) fish resources, especially the most valuable tuna
species in this context of an export-oriented project.
Fishing Crews
4.        There are about 5,500 fishermen in the project area (Annex 1) of
whom about 5 to 10% are either not employed or underemployed on existing
vessels, which usually carry a larger crew than strictly required for fishing
operations. Based on an estimate of fishermen who would be freed by replace-
ment of obsolete outboard sambuks with more efficient inboard sambuks and
underemployed fishermen in the project area, it is estimated that about 80
to 100 additional inboard sambuks could be manned over the 4-year investment
period.
Fish Resources
5.        PDRY's coastal waters rank among the richest fishing grounds in
the world (Annex 1). However, since the fishing area is restricted to the
project area because the traditional vessels can only make daily trips and
since in an export-oriented project, the valuable tuna species are of
particular interest, fleet expansion should also be based on reasonable
expectations of tuna resources. Research carried out by the UNDP/FAO
Fisheries Development Program estimates the tuna resources in the Gulf of
Aden at about 150,000 tons, of which about 15,000 tons could be caught on
an annual sustainable basis. However, these 15,000 tons comprise four
different species, of which the relative proportion is not known exactly.
Assuming an equal distribution among yellowfin, bluefin and other tuna
(little tunny and skipjack), as indicated by some research data, about
5,000 tons yellowfin, 5,000 tons bluefin, and 5,000 tons other tuna could
be expected as maximum sustainable yield for the whole Gulf region. Other
data indicate that other tuna consist of about 80% little tunny and 20%
skipjack.
6.        About 40% of total present fish landings (excluding sardines) is
landed in the project area and one might reasonably allocate the same
proportion to tuna yields. Maximum yields would thus be about 2,000 yellow-
fin, 2,000 tons bluefin, 1,600 tons little tunny and 400 tons skipjack.
This relative proportion falls in the range indicated by actual landings.
Since only yellowfin and skipjack tuna are internationally marketable, about
2,400 tons of valuable tuna could be expected from the project area. To
catch this maximum sustainable yield might not be economically justified,
however, because catch rates per unit effort decrease in reaching the
maximum sustainable yield. To maintain present catch rates per unit effort,
the mission therefore estimated that about 1,600-1,800 tons of valuable



ANNEX 3
Page 3
tuna could be caught in the project area for which about 80-100 vessels
would be required. At these catch rates the fishing vessels show satis-
factory financial and economic return.
Number of Proposed Vessels
7.        Taking the estimated number of additional crews and tuna resources
into account, it has been estimated that the present fleet could be safely
expanded by about 100 vessels of which five would be demonstration vessels
without straining manpower supply and fish resources over the investment
period. Research programs of the Research Station located in the project
area would determine further potential for fisheries expansion on the Fifth
Governorate.
8.        The following unit cost estimates are based on 1972 quotations
(excl. contingencies):
(a) Fishing Vessel
Foreign    Local
I tem                          Currency   Currency    Total
--- -- --- --SYT-     
Hull                               220        220        440
Ice-box insulation                  70         -          70
Engine                             900         -         900
Fishing Gear                       550         -         550
Total                      1,740         220      1,960
(b) Demonstration Vessel
Hull                               220        220        440
Ice-box insulation                  70         -          70
Engine                             900         -         900
Fishing Gear                       680         -         680
Line/Net Hauler                    110         -         110
Total                      1,980         220      2,200






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Traditional Fishing Vessel with Proposed Modifications
MAIN PARTICUJLARS
Length 0E=, all       13140 11 114 ft1
seam over all          2.90 m (9 ft 6 in)
Depth                  150   (4ft  r  i
Eng,                30-40 hp
0D -/ -05      2                                                 71 -                           Logime/giMnei ha.ler
Rain  oller                                           World Bank -6937
O      0 5                    23 .






ANNEX 4
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultants
General Scope of Work
1.        An engineering consultant firm would be contracted to assist
the Corporation in preparing designs for the proposed shore facilities,
and tender documents for contractor bidding, and to assist in supervising
construction of the shore facilities.
2.        General duties of the consultants would be as follows:
(a) Field information:
(i) Review of information with regard to other industrial
developments at proposed site;
(ii) Topography of selected site; and
(iii) Availability and location of utilities;
(b) Review the proposed site and operational requirements;
(c) Prepare preliminary layouts for approval by the Corporation;
(d) Prepare preliminary cost estimates of approved layouts;
(e) Prepare detailed design drawings;
(f) Prepare technical specifications including local building
material and methods to be used for the civil works component
of the shore facilities;
(g) Prepare tender documents, including forms for prequalification
if required;
(h) Receive, analyze and tabulate tenders which would be made to
the Corporation;
(i) If not prequalified, evaluate the qualifications of responding
contractors;
(j) Recommend awards to the Corporation;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(k)  Maintain at least one on-site engineer to supervise the
work and performance of all civil, mechanical and electricity
contractors;
(1)  Review and follow through contractors' and suppliers'
schedules;
(m)  Maintain construction accounts;
(n)  Check computations, prepare change orders, examine and
certify contractors' applications for payments;
(o)  Advise and assist the Corporation and contractors;
(p)  Upon completion of the works, furnish record drawings
of the project "as built" and assemble catalogues,
operation manuals, and written guarantees to be supplied
by the contractors;
(q) Supervise the trial runs and adjustment of machinery; and
Cr) Make final inspection and submit acceptance documents.
Preparation of Tender Documents
3.        The engineering consultants would be responsible for preparing
all the documents for tendering of the construction contracts including,
inter alia:
(a)  Bidding advertisement and tender invitations;
(b)  General contract conditions;
(c)  Special contract conditions;
(d)  Technical specifications including arrangements with local
contractors for civil works;
(e)  Design drawings required for bidding and construction:
(i) Structural engineering designs;
(ii) Civil engineering layouts including site drawings; and
(iii) Machinery layout and specifications;
(f) Instruction to bidders;
(g) Form of contractor's bids (bid form);



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(h) Form of construction contract; and
(i) Questionnaries and qualification forms as needed for
qualification of contractors.
4.        The above documents shall show clearly all requirements necessary
to carry out the construction contracts and shall conform to accepted
engineering practices used by the cold storage and freezing facilities
industry. The engineering consultants shall submit all documents to the
Corporation for consultation, review and approval before having tender
documents provided in final form. The engineering consultants would have
the major responsibility of providing clarification of the tender documents
to inquiring contractors and notification of such clarifications to all
other contractors.
Execution
5.        The engineering consultants would provide staff in PDRY ot obtain
the field information and a resident engineer in Aden. Actual design work,
preparation of documents and the like, is expected to take place at the
engineering consultant's headquarter.
6.        Estimated time requirements are presented below:
Man-months
1.   Design and Tender Documents            12
2.   Tender Period                            1
3.   Report on Tenders                       2
4.   Scrutinize Contract Details             3
5.   Head Office Supervision                 2
6.   Commissioning Tests                      1
Sub-total                         21
7.   Site                                    13
34






ANNEX 5
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
General Terms of Reference for Operations Personnel
General Scope of Work
1.        The Corporation requires technical assistance to market the fish
production, implement the management study, the credit program, the fisheries
development and harbor study and operate the proposed shore facilities.
2.        The Corporation would contract a specialized firm or individuals
to perform the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) The proJect manager would head the newly established
Fisheries Project Department within the Corporation.
He would report to the Director General and be charged
with the overall responsibilities of project implementation.
In particular, he would assist in iqmlementing the proposed
organizational changes of the Corporation recommended by
the management study, advise on the proposed fisheries
development and harbor study and supervise the fishery vessel
program. He would also supervise the engineering consultants
during construction of the shore facilities. After the
shore facilities have become operational he would make the
necessary fish sales and shipping arrangements in close
cooperation with the cold storage manager. During his
employment, estimated at about 4 man-years, he would train
and advise his local counterpart to prepare him for taking
over after the development period.
(b) The cold storage manager and the refrigeration engineer
would be stationed in Mukalla (project area) and report
to the project manager. The cold storage manager would
be responsible for cold storage operations in general.
In particular, his duties would include making the necessary
fish purchase arrangements in cooperation with the project
manager and the Director General with regard to fish
purchase prices. Together with the refrigeration engineer
he would carry out the necessary functions to operate the
cold storage and freezing facilities efficiently. Total
estimated time requirements are two man-years each.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) The accountant would be stationed in Mlukalla and would
report to the cold storage manager. Hie would be responsible
for maintaining a simple sub-accounting system for the shore
facilities and be responsible for providing adequate and
timely financial information to management. His assignment
would be permanent.
3.        It is expected that the personnel required for (a) and (b) would
be recruited internationally and the other personnel, accountant and
counterparts to (a) and (b), would be found in PDRY.
Time Estimates
4.        Time estimates are as follows:
Man-months
(1)  Project Manager                          48
(2)  Cold Storage Manager                     24
(3)  Refrigeration Engineer                   24
96



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
General Terms of Reference for Ianagement Consultants
1.        The Corporation requires technical assistance to reform its
organization and introduce suitable management supporting systems in order
that it can effectively implement its anticipated activities. The specific
areas in which assistance is required are:
(a) realignment of functional responsibilities among the
Departments; and
(b) improvement of the Corporation's financial accounting
system.
Organization Realignment
2.        A management consultant firm would be contracted to assume overall
responsibility for the organizational technical assistance. The consultants
would in a first phase make a comprehensive review and analysis of the
Corporation's organization and operation. In the second phase, emphasis
would be placed on determining the proper organizational form which would be
needed to carry out the various functional responsibilities of the Departments
and the Corporation. Particular attention would be directed towards the
existing overlapping or non-defined responsibilities among present Departments.
Following the study, the consultant firm would recommend an implementation plan
for the new organizational structure.
3.        The management firm would assist the Corporation in implementing the
new organizational form and, if necessary, sub-contract a specialist firm or
individual specialists to perform work in the area of financial accounting.
The management consultant would be responsible for coordination and supervision
of the specialized firm or individuals and insure that their efforts would be
oriented to the new organizational form which the management firm would be
implementing.
Financial Accounting
4.        The specialized firm or individuals which would be contracted
to improve the financial accounting system of the Corporation would in a
flrst phase conduct an in-depth review of the present accounting procedures
and journals. The specialists would also become familiar with the
financial relationships and reporting requirements that are needed between
the Departments and management of the Corporation under the new organization



ANNEX 6
Page 2
to be implemented. On the basis of this analysis, the consultants would
propose the necessary reforms of the present financial accounting procedures.
The improved accounting and supporting systems would fulfill all statutory
accounting procedures and reporting requirements relevant for public
corporations in PDRY and at the same time produce financial information for
the management of the Corporation. The management information should be
timely and adequately organized to serve as a basis for judging the results
of the Corporation's operations and serve as a basis for financial and other
decisions.
5.        The specialists would be retained to assist in implementing the
improvements including redesigning accounting forms and ledgers, writing
new accounting manuals and training the accounting staff.
Time Estimates
6.        Time estimates are presented below:
Man-months
(1)  Study and Design                           12
(2)  Implementation                             12
24



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PEOPLE"S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Detailed Terms of Reference for Fisheries and Harbor Consultants
I.   BACKGROUND
II.   SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A.   General
B.   Phase I:  Preliminary Justification
1.   General
2.   Fishery resource assessment and requirements
3.   Preliminary site investigations
4.   Engineering studies
5.   Preliminary assessment of investigations
C.   Phase II:  Project Preparation
1.   General
2.   Fisheries studies
3.   Engineering studies
a.   Detailed site investigations
b.  Model studies
c.   Layout of shore facilities
d.   Preliminary engineering design
e.   Estimates of construction and
maintenance costs
4.   Economic studies
5.   Financial studies
6.   Recommendations for project organization
7.   Project preparation report
D.   Time Schedule and Reports
III.   SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT
OF PDRY



ANNEX 7
Page 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The object of the study is to identify opportunities and to make
recommendations for developing an integral fishing industry at Nishtun in
the Sixth Governorate (the eastern-most Governorate of the Republic -- coast-
line approximately 350 km long extending to the border with Muscat and Oman)
of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen ('DRY). Fish resources in the
area are known to be large and valuable, and their exploitation and the
general development of the fishing industry in the Governorate will be
greatly assisted by the creation of a fully equipped harbor located in the
Governorate.
2.        No harbor facilities exist in the Sixth Governorate.  Fishing
operations in the Governorate waters are carried out at present either by
trawlers operating from a distant base or by traditional fishermen landing
catches on open beaches for local consumption.
3.        A preliminary study carried out as an element of the FAO/UNDP
Project - Fishery Development in the Gulf of Yemen (PDY/64/501) - indicates
a potential site at Nishtun about 18 km to the north of Ras Fartak in the
Sixth Governorate. The natural features of this site provide some shelter
and water of sufficient depth reasonably close inshore, but there is an
almost complete absence of any infrastructure facilities. In particular,
an adequate supply of fresh water needs to be found and developed.
4.        It is proposed that a fishery development plan be prepared consist-
ing of:
(a) an assessment of the living marine resources of the region based
on present data and field visits;
(b) recommendations to the phased development of the fishing industry
based on (a) above.
5.        It is also proposed that a harbor complex be constructed consist-
ing of:
(a) berths for offloading, bunkering, and servicing fishing vessels,
for loading fish carriers and for unloading small oil tankers
and other supply vessels;
(b) a breakwater to provide sheltered water at the berths and to
provide a small harbor of refuge for the fishing fleet during
the monsoon;
(c) reclamation of land as may be necessary to accommodate the
shore facilities;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(d) halls for fish handling and processing and a fish freezing/ice
plant/cold store facility;
(e) a slipway and repair facility;
(f) infrastructure facilities including water and electricity supply
and a sewage system.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General
6.        The Consultants shall perform all technical and administrative
studies, feasibility analyses, site investigations, and related work herein
described:
(a) determine the available fish resources and estimate the yield
by species;
(b) recommend the most appropriate means of exploiting the resource,
that is, the type of vessel, shore facilities and marketing
arrangements and ways of upgrading the present labor force as
a basis for the proposed development;
(c) determine the functional requirements of the facilities;
(d) recommend the site of the proposed port;
(e) evaluate staged development of the proposed port;
(f)  make preliminary engineering designs for the plan best suited
to serve anticipated traffic;
(g)  prepare preliminary cost estimates for construction and main-
tenance of the port facilities, the processing industry, and
the necessary infrastructure:
(h) make financial analyses of future port operations;
(i) make economic cost and benefit analyses for the port and the
fishing fleet, and for provision of fishing vessels;
(j) make recommendations on port operation and administration,
including capital, operating and administrative costs and user
charges for port services;
(k) prepare a zoning plan for development of the port and surround-
ing areas; and
(1) prepare a financial forecast for first ten years of operation.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
7.        The Consultants shall cooperate fully with the Government, which
will provide the necessary data, facilities and services outlined in Chapter
III. The Consultants shall, however, be solely responsible for the analyses
and interpretation of all data received and for the findings, conclusions
and recommendations contained in their reports. The Consultants shall carry
out their services in two phases - first, identify the need and general
pattern of fisning development suitability of the site; and, second, carry
out all site investigations and studies to enable the projects to be appraised
by international lending agencies.
B.   Phase I:  Preliminary Justification
1.   General
8.        Phase I, which should take six months to complete, will determine:
(a) the size, number and composition of the fishing vessels to be
accommodated;
(b) in cooperation with the Public Corporation for Fish Wealth, the
proposed project for developing the fisheries industry in the
Governorate;
(c) the fish landing forecasts in the coastal, trawler and industrial
fisheries sectors at the proposed pozt over a period of ten
years after commencement of port operations and a more general
assessment of a further five-year period;
(d) the present capacities of existing fish landing sites, processing
plants, and storing facilities, if any;
(e) the provisions required for all marine and shore services, shelter
area and mooring space, repair and maintenance facilities and
storage, handling and auctioning facilities;
(f) the requirements for the industrial installations, such as
freezing plants, fish processing facilities, cold storage and
general stores;
(g) the requirements for vessel construction and repair, and any
other facilities to be incorporated in the port plans;
(h) the availability of the area to support the proposed development.
2.   Fishery Resource Assessment and Requirements
(a)  Based on field observation, available data and published reports,
the Consultants and their associates shall provide an assessment
of the:



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(1) distribution and abundance of commercially important fish
by species;
(2) maximum sustainable yields of commercially important fish
by species;
(3)  migrations, seasonalities, size frequencies and any other
information of importance to the development of the commer-
cial fisheries resources of the region by species.
(b)  Based on the findings of (a) above and taking into account the
existing traditional fishery and the expected port facilities,
the Consultants and their associates shall make recommendations
regarding:
(1) the most suitable pattern of fishery development in the
region, emphasizing the need to develop future fisheries
by means of the existing traditional fishing;
(2) the scope and timing of future fishery activities.
3.   Preliminary Site Investigations
9.        The Consultants shall examine and review all maps, aerial photo-
graphs, charts, and all weather, geological and hydrographic information
available from the Government. Consultants shall then carry out general
site observations and begin data collection for the proposed location to
determine the need for further field surveys and investigations, identify-
ing shallows, reefs, and serious littoral drift which may require costly
capital or maintenance dredging. Some of these studies, ultimately requiring
a series of data, may extend into Phase II in order that adequate seasoned
coverage of essential data become available as soon as possible. The Con-
sultants shall also estimate fresh water requirements for the port residen-
tial development and carry out preliminary investigations to locate such
a water source within a reasonable distance of the proposed site. The
site investigations shall include:
(a)  Topographical Survey.  A wide-ranging, though widely spaced, topo-
graphical survey shall be conducted over the area indicated on
the attached map to check the accuracy of existing topographical
maps and charts and to provide basic information for preliminary
project assessment.
(b)  Hydrographical Survey.  A hydrographical survey, limited seaward
by the 10-meter contour, shall be completed at a wide interval
and related to the above topographical survey for preparing a
preliminary layout of structures and a dredging plan. If a
littoral drift study is needed, the limit may be extended. The
combined results of the topographical and hydrographical surveys
shall be provided on maps at an adequate scale to facilitate a
rapid evaluation of the project.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
10.       A review of existing tide data shall be made and more detailed tide
investigations started, early in the study. Mean tide levels shall be determined
at the proposed port site by reducing carefully supervised recordings on an
approved tide guage. The reduced levels required are: mean high water spring
tide (MHWST), mean high water neap tide (MHWNT), mean low water neap tide (MLWNT),
mean low water spring tide (MLWST), and mean water level (MWL).  All levels shall
be related to the data connected:
(1) if possible to the national survey system;
(2) otherwise to a permanent bench mark which shall be installed
in the vicinity of the proposed port site.
(c) Littoral Drift Survey. A study shall be made of any evidence
indicating that littoral drift is likely to be a serious problem.
If so, recommendations shall be made for the littoral drift
investigation of Phase II.
11.       A series of offshore current measurements shall be made over the
entire period of the northeast and southwest monsoons and the inter-monsoon
seasons.
(d) Geotechnical Investigations. These shall be conducted over the
areas surveyed, and shall include:
(1)  preliminary soil sounding (Swedish or Dutch weight or machine
penetration sounding or similar reliable rapid method) at a
wide interval grid, say, 10 m x 100 m depending on the soil
strata;
(2) periodic controlled drilling and soil sampling (disturbed
and undisturbed) to adequate depths as required by the nature
of the materials found and by the suggested layout;
(3) soil tests, conducted in a reliable institute or laboratory,
as required by the materials obtained;
(4) other in-situ tests, such as vane tests, penetration tests,
consolidation and compaction tests and the examination of
trial pits wherever needed.
(e)  Wind and Wave Investigations.  Throughout the preliminary site
investigations the heights, lengths, frequencies and direction of
waves shall be recorded at low and high tide periods in daylight
hours. Continuous automatic recording of wind direction and
velocity shall be obtained.
(f) Geological Investigations. A geological study shall be made to
locate adequate quantities of rocks suitable for breakwater con-
struction, and non-cohesive materials for reclamation and for



ANNEX 7
Page 7
aggregate concrete. The probable development of highways is to
be briefly investigated.
(g) Water Resources. A survey shall be made of the existing water
supplies and possible exploitation of new water resources in the
area. Recommendation shall be made regarding the need for and
siting of trial wells to prove the quality and quantity of the
supply.
12.       The Consultants may entrust some of the field survey and laboratory
studies to qualified specialist firms, local or foreign, subject to the
Government's approval.
13.       The Consultants, however, shall remain solely responsible for the
supervision, adequacy and accuracy of the work, for the analytical inter-
pretation of all data received and for the conclusions and recommendations.
4.   Engineering Studies
14.       Based on the preliminary site investigations, the Consultants shall
assess the significant wave heights expected at the site, using the wave
records, the wind data, and wave refraction diagrams. The Consultants shall
also determine the extent of the structures needed.
5.   Preliminary Assessment of Investigations
15.       The Consultants shall summarize their findings and recommendations
in a report and, if the project appears feasible, shall prepare a feasibility
plan outlining the proposed development. In their report, the Consultants
shall include a financial and economic evaluation of the project including
a preliminary cost estimate and detailed work program for Phase II. The
report shall also contain recommendation on the necessity for model studies,
either computer or laboratory, in Phase II.
16.       This report and the plan shall be submitted within four months of
the starting. date.
17.       The Government will review the Consultants' report within a month
after receipt. In consultation with the Bank (IBRD) the Government will
either terminate the study or confirm the selected site, confirming and/or
modifying the program for further investigations and studies recommended.
C.   Phase II:  Project Preparation
1.   General
18.       Following discussions with the Government on the preliminary report,
the Consultants shall carry out more detailed field and laboratory investiga-
tions, fisheries planning, preliminary engineering design, and economic and
financial analyses.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
19.       In Phase II, which should be completed within 12 months after the
starting date, the Consultants shall:
(a) determine the most economical type of construction delineating
each major element of the installation;
(b) prepare reliable estimates of construction and maintenance costs,
which will be a basis for final design and for appraisal of the
project by international lending agencies; and
(c) make recommendations regarding the port operation and the asso-
ciated infrastructure.
2.   Fisheries Studies
20.       Based on the preliminary fishery investigation, the Consultants
shall prepare more detailed fishery development plans continuing detailed
recommendations regarding:
(a) the pattern of fishery development for the region based on
available resource information;
(b) a plan for integration of the traditional sector with the
pattern of development proposed including types of training
required, consideration of income distribution among fishermen,
and share arrangements between cooperatives and crew;
(c) the scope of fishing requirements, including a plan for the
phased reduction in foreign distant-water trawling integrated
with increase in local fishing capability to include the numbers,
types size of fishing boats and their relative proportions;
(d) a plan or plans for limited entry into the fishery, and formulas
for licensing and regulation of fishing effort with various
alternatives for policy taking into account employment, income,
rates of return on capital, maximum physical yield, maximum
rates of foreign exchange earnings as a proportion of employment,
or capital;
(e) time schedules which might involve changes in the proportion,
types and sizes of vessles in the fishery in accordance with
the overall development plan; and
(f) a schedule in which the proposed fishery development plan is
integrated into the direct and indirect supporting facilities
contemplated by the other studies being carried out under these
terms of reference.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
3.   Engineering Studies
a.   Detailed Site Investigations
(1) Topographical and Hydrographic Surveys. More detailed sur-
veys shall be conducted with special attention to the selected
area where structures will be located. The hydrographic sur-
vey shall include the sea bed out of the MLWST 10 m contour
and any hazard identified in Phase I; and the topographical
survey shall include all probable shore development areas
and their road approaches.
(2) Geotechnical Investigations. By using the rapid forms of
investigation previously described, these investigations
shall provide a more comprehensive cover at closer intervals
over the whole development area. Rock cores and soil samples
shall be obtained at selected points wherever needed for
structural design or dredging purposes.
(3) Hydraulic Investigations. Based on the site characteristics
obtained in Phase I, these investigations will include wind
and wave measurements, tidal and current measurements, and
siltation and littoral drift measurements.
(4) Fresh Water Investigations. The Consultants shall sink trial
wells into the water-bearing strata identified in Phase I
and carry out sufficient pumping tests to demonstrate the
fresh water supply needed. The Consultants shall also
determine the extent of water treatment needed.
b.   Model Studies
21.       The Consultant model tests, either computer or hydraulic, at an
approved laboratory or institute, if approved by the Government in consulta-
tion with the Bank, would determine some or all of:
(1) the effect of various breakwater configurations on the
residual wave heights of berths and other places inside
the harbor;
(2) the extent of any bed movements and the layout of port
facilities without a significant erosion or siltation
problem;
(3) the stability of recommended breakwater section against
attack by the wave regime at the site.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
c.   Layout of Shore Facilities
22.       Studies of port facilities shall be based on the above-mentioned
traffic forecasts of the first ten years of operation and on the results of
the site and model investigations.
(1) The studies shall be made on an analysis of the prospective
operational needs for cargo transfer and storage and the
preliminary layout of the facilities including:
(a) primary facilities - vessel berths, outfitting berths,
mooring and shelter areas, etc.
(b) industrial installations - processing plant, freezing
plant, cold storage, ice plant, general storage, open
storage, etc.
(c) auxiliary shore facilities - warehouses, offices,
maintenance shops, boat-building and repair works,
parking area, etc.
(2) The Consultants shall define the type and quantity of cargo-
handling equipment and the provision for truck access and
parking and for other transportation facilities.
(3) The Consultants shall analyze the operational procedures
currently employed in other modern fishing ports to estab-
lish the procedures for the planned port.
(4) The Consultants shall prepare preliminary designs and general
layout of water, sewerage and power supply for the port and
associated facilities.
(5) The Consultants shall prepare the preliminary facilities
layouts and the capital and maintenance costs estimate.
(6) The port shall be planned to permit future expansion to a
capacity of at least twice the annual traffic forecast.
d.   Preliminary Engineering Design
(1) The Consultants shall prepare and evaluate alternative layouts
for the development of port facilities by stages with recom-
mendations for a long-range development plan defining the
overall facility layout and the land and water areas required
for functional and jurisdictional purposes.
(2) The first stage of construction, to be studied in detail under
this Contract, shall provide fish unloading and service berths,



ANNEX 7
Page 11
shelter and mooring areas and other facilities. These facili-
ties shall be adequate for the existing and projected vessels.
(3) The Consultants shall prepare preliminary engineering designs
for the first stage of construction and determine the construc-
tion methods best suited for the site. The drawings in the
final report shall give the dimensions and typical cross
sections of all major buildings and structures, and major
features of the proposed design, in sufficient detail to
provide an adequate basis for the future detailed engineer-
ing design and for appraisal of the project by international
agencies.
(4) The Consultants shall also make recommendations on the type,
capacity and quantities of cargo-handling equipment for the
first ten years of port operations.
e.   Estimates of Construction and Maintenance Costs
(1) The Consultants shall prepare a list of quantities and unit
prices for all major items of the proposed project, identify-
ing the foreign and local currency components for each item.
The foreign currency expenditures shall include:
(a) the cost of the imported materials;
(b) the cost of equipment and supplies brought in by
foreign contractors; and
(c) the profit and overhead of foreign firms involved
in project design and construction.
The Consultants shall prepare a summary list of construction
cost estimates for the first stage of the total project,
including port facilities, navigation channels and roads
access to the port.
(2) A separate list shall be prepared for the estimated costs of
annual channel dredging and structure and equipment maintenance.
4.   Economic Studies
23.       All economic studies described in this section shall be carried
out accurately to establish the economic feasibility of the project.
(a) Traffic Forecasts for the Fishing Port. The Consultants shall
review the traffic forecasts and the projected size and composi-
tion of the fishing fleet in the Phase I report. The Consultants



ANNEX 7
Page 12
shall also collect any additional data on future development of
the fishing industry in the Governorate that may become available
during the period of study, with which they shall update the
traffic forecasts. Forecasts shall be given for lobster, cuttle-
fish, inshore and tuna fisheries for the first ten years of the
port operation. More general projections of the total volumes of
prospective traffic, without breakdowns, shall be given for a
further five years.
(b) Feasibility Analysis. The Consultants shall estimate and analyze
the economic costs and benefits of the recommended first stage
of the port development. The benefits shall include estimates of
savings in overall transportation costs and net gains to the
economy of PDRY directly attributable to the construction of the
new port as compared to the present facilities, that is, benefits
accruing to fishermen, fishermen's cooperatives, boat owners,
transportation, marketing, etc. In particular, the benefits shall
include the direct savings arising from terminating the present
foreign-based cuttlefish industry. The anaiysis should be based
on a realistic projection of fishing activities with and without
the project. The costs shall include final engineering, construc-
tion, equipment acquisition, installation and maintenance. The
benefits shall be compared with the annual economic costs of the
new port. The analysis of economic benefits and costs shall be
presented in a detailed tabulation for each year of the forecasted
period. The Consultant's final economic evaluation shall include
determination of the rate of economic return on investment, by
discounting the future benefits and costs to equal present values.
24.       The Consultants shall determine and quantify:
(1) the anticipated economic benefits attributable to the project,
including increases in catch, jobs created by the fishing
industry, change in industrial activity and the savings in
fishing operations;
(2) the costs of the project, including harbor works, vessels
and equipment; and
(3) the profitability of the project on the basis of present value
using alternative discounts of 8%, 10%, and 12%.
5.   Financial Studies
25.       The Consultants shall make financial forecasts and an analysis of
prospective costs and revenues of the port development assuming good operat-
ing procedures and a suitable administrative structure.
I



ANNEX 7
Page 13
26.       The financial analysis shall include estimates of annual capital,
maintenance and administrative costs and of the cost of cargo-handling and
storage, vessel berthing, and other port operations. These estimated costs
shall be distributed to the variouis services to be offered in the new terminal.
The Consultants shall also conduct a survey of port charges being levied for
similar services at comparable fishing ports in the area or elsewhere. Based
on these data and estimates, the Consultants shall make recommendations
regarding the structure and level of fair and reasonable port charges for
the services to be offered in the new port. The Consultants shall prepare
operating revenue and expense statements, cash flow statements and proforma
balance sheets for the first five years of port operation and calculate the
rate of return on net fixed assets and the operating ratio for the project.
27.       The Consultants shall determine whether the fishing port operation
mould be profitable. This includes determining on what hypothesis it would
be profitable and when it would become self-supporting.
28.       The Consultants shall determine the rates of port charges and the
services to be charged and estimate the annual receipts from the port opera-
tion. The Consultants shall make financial projections showing a profit and
loss statement and a balance sheet for the first ten years of the port opera-
tion.
6.   Recommendations for Project Organization
(a)  Assessment of Requirements.  The Consultants shall analyze the
organization requirement for project operations, in particular
with regard to harbor administration (Port Authority), services
(Water and Power Corporation) and fishing and fish processing
activities (Public Corporation for Fish Wealth).
(b)  Operational Guidelines.  Based on the proposed organizational
structure of the institutions and on project requirements, the
Consultants shall prepare operational and administrative guide-
lines and procedures and recommend a staffing and organizational
structure. This shall include detailed organization charts,
definition of administrative and operational responsibilities
for key positions in the organizations and an outline of the
appropriate qualifications for key personnel as well as budget
requirements.
7.   Project Preparation Report
28.       The Consultants shall prepare a detailed report incorporating the
results of all the fish catch potential; fishing fleet requirements; site
investigation; and engineering, economic, financial and organizational
aspects.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
D.   Time Schedule and Reports
29.       The Consultants shall submit to the Government:
(a)  An Inception Report - within one and a half months after the
starting date, summarizing their initial findings.
(b) Brief Progress Reports - at monthly intervals (ten copies in
English) following delivery of the inception report, giving a
statement of all work performed during the reporting period and
a summary of findings.
(c) First Interim Report - after completion of the Plase I studies
(20 copies in English) summarizing all works performed, findings
and recommendations for further investigations and studies
required, within four months of the starting date.
(d) A Final Draft Report - upon completion of the Phase II studies
(20 copies in English) summarizing all works performed, findings
and recommendations for layout, design and implementation, within
eight months of the contract effective date.
(e) A Final Report (50 copies in English) - within 60 days following
receipt of the Government's comments on the final draft report,
incorporating all the necessary revisions and accompanied by all
the drawings and design data.
(f) In additional to the above, the Consultants shall, at any time,
furnish the Government with such information as it may reasonably
request to follow the progress of the studies. All these reports
and documents shall become the exclusive property of the Govern-
ment.
III. SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT OF PDRY
1.   Provision of Documents
30.       The Government will furnish the Consultants with all relevant
statistical data, reports, maps and other information available. The Govern-
ment will also furnish, without charge, meteorological, topographical,
hydrologic, hydrographic, geological and other technical information, includ-
ing relevant photogrammetry services and records. The Government will provide
the Consultants with all available data on:
(a) the economic development program of PDRY;
(b) fish landings at and distribution from the various fishery
ports and significant landing places in PDRY;



ANNEX 7
Page 15
(c) drawings of any existing port or fish landing facilities;
td) previous field investigations at any site adjacent to the
proposed port, if available; and
(e) financial data on present fishery operations.
The Consultants are not entitled ito publish or disclose any of the informa-
tion so obtained without the written consent of the Government.
2.   Cooperation of Government Agencies and Counterparts
31.       If any of the Consultants' work requires cooperation of other Gov-
ernment agencies, the Government will facilitate the liaison and will ensure
that the Consultants have access to all information necessary for completing
their services.
32.       The Government's provision of facilities, such as cars, offices,
technicians, laborers, etc., will be mutually discussed and agreed on with
the Consultants at the time of the contract negotiation.
33.       The Government's assignments of the necessary clerical assistance;
skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled and menial labor; office accommodation;
vehicles; and local equipment will also be negotiated between the Governnent
and the Consultants. This might include:
(a) Pontoons of rafts of an agreed design for the safe conduct of
geotechnical investigations. Each raft or pontoon shall be
adequately equipped with at least four anchors, ropes and all
obligatory marine signals and beacons.
(b) Motor boats and crew for hydrgraphic and other surveys and for
transportation of personnel and equipment between shore and sea
stations. One motor boat should be capable of being equipped
with a portable-type hydrographic survey echo sounder of any type
to be used in the investigations.
(c) Miscellaneous buoys with anchors for setting out and marking.
(d) All necessary marine signals for marking the soil boring sites
on the sea bed.
(e) Mlotor vehicles with drivers to be used for the transportation of
the Consultants and counterpart personnel, provided with mainte-
nance, repairs and insurance for the vehicles.
(f) Office and storage accommodation for the Consultants' personnel
at each site under investigation, and the use of a central office



ANNEX 7
Page 16
for conducting official business with the Government and preparing
necessary documentation.
(g) Clerical and draftsmen assistance.
(b) All skilled and unskilled labor required for the many investiga-
tion operations.
(i) Timber bulks, poles, rods and other materials and hand tools for
setting out and marking base lines and cross sections and for
other survey and investigative purposes.
(j) Adequate guards and watchman facilities for all boats, pontoons,
rafts, offices, storehouses, etc., for the investigations.
3.   Time Estimates
34.       Time estimates are presented below:
Han-months
(1) Fisheries Resources and
Development Studies                                25
(2)  Preliminary Site Investigations                      24
(3)  Engineering Studies                                  48
(4) Economic Studies                                      16
Total                          113



ANNEX 8
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1.        The attached Drawing No. 7072 indicates the estimated project
implementation schedule.






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITY                        YEAR 1                        YEAR 2                        YEAR 3                       YEAR 4
A. Shore Facilities
(I)  Engineering Consultants      *  _       _   _     m m   r_              _--_
(I1) Construction
(lli) Management Services
- Project Manager
- Cold Storage Manager
- Refrigeration Engineer
- Naval Architect
- Master Fisherman
B. Fishing Vessels                  mi...*m..m.m..*mmm~maIammmmm*rrrruIsIunpIrinrriuIIuIaruIuumi
C. Management Study
D. Fisheries Harbor and                                            * a _                 m      _m_ a
Development Study
E. Agricultural
Survey - Wadi Hadramut
Valley
F. Water Supply
Study                                      *m_      _     _    _a       a *Iu
World Bank -- 7072 (Ri






ANNEX 
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRPTIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates 
Foreign      Local
Currency  Currency      Total
---- SYD ------------
I. SHORE FACILITIES
1. Mukalla
(i)  Machinery and Equipment
Gerierators (incl. fuel storage)         44,500         --      44,500
Compressors                              22,300         __      22,300
Ice Making & Ice Crushers                18,800         --      18,800
Evaporators                              15,400         --      15,400
Electric Wiring & Control Gear,
Piping anrl Instruments                20,700         --      20,700
Processing Equipment, Raw
Material Tubs, etc.                    11,100      1,900      13,000
Insulated Loading Pallets,
and Trolleys                            3,900     1.900        5,800
Workshop Equipment                        5,4o00        _-       5,400
Insulated Trucks                         13,800        --       13,800
Loading Crane                             5,800         --       5,800
Radio Communication                       7,700         --       7,700
Equipment Installation                   66,200    10,900       77,100
Freight and Insurance                    27,600     2,800       30 400
Sub-total                     263,200    17,500     280,700
(ii)  Building & Site Works
Site Preparation                          1,800     4,000        5,800
Building Structure                       47,300    31,500       78,800
Insulaticn                               38,500    11,500       50,000
Insulated Doors                           9,900       500       10,4o00
Fresh Water Supply & Storage Tanks        1,900        800       2,700
Salt Water Intake, Pump House and
Storage Tanks                           7,700     1,900        9,600
Drainage & Waste Disposal                 2,100       700        2,800
Paved Areas                               1.000       600        1 600
Sub-total                     110,200    51,500     161,700
Total Nlukalla                          373,400    69,000      442,400
2.  Shihr
Building Structure                             2,400      1,600       4,000
Cleaning Benches                                 200        200         400
Insulation                                       900        .00       1,300
Insulated Doors                                  800         --         800
Refrigeration Machinery                        2,800         --       2,800
Connection to Water & Electricity
Supply Mains                                   600       400        1,000
Tube Well & Pump for Salt Water Supply         1,600        400       2,000
Equipment Installaticn                         2,000        300       2,300
Inland Freight                                    --        300         300
Total Shjhr                                   11,300      3,600      14,900
Total Shore Facilities                           384,700    72,600      457,300



ANNEX 9
Page 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates (Cont'd.)
Foreign        Local
Currency       Currency       Total
---------- SYD -
II. FISHING VESSELS
1.  Demonstration Vessels
Hulls                               1 ,100          1 ,100         2,200
Ice-box Insulation                    350             --             350
Engines                             4O,50o            _            4,500
Fishing Gear                        3,400             _-           3,400
Line/Net Haulers                       550            --             550
Sub-total                 9,900           1,100        11,000
2.  Fishing Vessels
Hulls                              20,900          20,900         41,800
Ice-box Insulation                  6,650             --           6,650
Engines                            85, 500                        85,500
Fishing Gear                       52.250             --          52.25o
Sub-total               165,300          20,900       186,200
Total Fishing Vessels             175,200          22,000        197,200
III.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Engineering Services                42,000           5,000        47,000
2.  Operations Personnel               114h000          7,000        121 ,OOO
3.  Management Consultants              38,000          6,ooo         44,ooo
4. Naval Architect/Aaster Fisherman  14,000              3,OOO        17,000
5. Fisheries Development and
Harbor Stucbr                145,000           9,000        154,0QO
6.  Agricultural Survey                 55,ooo           7,00O        62,QOO
7.  Water Supply Study                  14,000           3,000        17,000
Total Technical Assistance        422,000          Wowooo        462,000
IV.  WORKINI  CAPI-TAL                        --             57,000        57,0oo
Grand Total                            981o900        191,600      1,173.500
1/ Excludes contingencies.



ANNEX 10
PEOPLE'S DFI40CRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year & Quarter                           at End of Quarter
---     US$1000--------
FY 1974
1st /a
2nd                                                 52
3rd                                               116
4th                                               279
1975
1st                                               431
2nd                                               970
3rd                                             1,51i
4th                                             2,049
1976
1st                                             2,588
2nd                                             2,783
3rd                                             2,980
4th                                             3,091
1977
1st                                             3,204
2nd                                             3,283
3rd                                             3,362
4th                                             3,431
1978
1st /b                                          3,500
/a   Estimated Date of Effectiveness.
/b   Estimated Closing Date.






ANNEX 11
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Organizational. Chart of the
Public Corporation for Fish Wealth
1.        The attached Drawing No. 7033 presents the organizational chart
of the Corporation and the integration of the Fisheries Project Department.



PEOPLE'S DEMAOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Organization Chart of The Public
Corporation for Fish Wealth
Ministry of Aew~raIltwe ttd Agrarran Refonrr
Publie Cceporation for Firh Wealth
Chairman
|Board of
Directonr
Cieneral       |B||0@$@ |. of 1. oi i       s Be I Is 11.. ..
(91
Nat onal Col(l    F,5he,es                   f ,rheries                                 _                     Flnance and                           l                    l     Research and
Storaie C.rI-oraton        Mjrketinq               Project                Credit                Services                         FsheeAdnstrato                                              UNDPFAO Fishertes                   Training Center
Asden          r    Assi stance           Departmen t            Assistance                (81                          Depart,t                             r3ew                              oject                            Me
r C'"l5O                                       P'ojet F-cIsvf-|  Research Cente ,
|'kfl                                              M,.k 11                                                                                   l                                                                                     M  lkalal ..  s
1Sh h,
Note (Numire' c,' Efm ssIcvee. 
550   8 J.7J:



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
General Outline for Project Evaluation
1.        In order to evaluate benefits realized under the project, IDA
would expect to receive, not later than two months after the close of each
fiscal year starting with FY1974, an annual report analyzing the profitability
of the fishing operations of the participating cooperatives and of the
shore facilities as set forth below:
A.   Fishing Operations
(I) Physical Results
(a) No. of New Fishing Vessels
(b) No. of Fishermen Employed
(c) No. of Fishing Days
(d) Total Catch (tons) (Specify by main species)
(II)  Financial Results
(a) Total Revenues (SYD)
(b) Total Operating Costs (SYD) (Specify details)
B.   Shore Facilities Operations
(I) Physical Results
(a)  No. of Permanent Employees
(b)  No. of Man-hours of Casual Labor
(c)  Total Amount of Fish Purchased (tons) and Unit
Prices (SYD/ton) (Specify main species)
(d)  Total Amount of Fish Marketed (tons) (Specify markets)
and Unit Prices (SYD/ton) (Specify main species)



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(II) Financial Results
(a) Total Revenues (SYD) (Specify by species)
(b) Total Operating Costs (SYD) (Specify details)
2.        Any other relevant development related to project activities.



ANNEX 13
Page   1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Trade and Marketing Prospects for Project Species
A. General
1.        Trade prospects for the catches of project vessels are anticipated
to be of two ty?es: those species of relatively low value destined for local
or for export to Middle Eastern markets where demand for inexpensive fish is
good; and those species of relatively high value destined for various inter-
national markets in which demand and price are sufficiently high to justify
the processing, freight and handling charges from PDRY.
2.        The species for export to the Middle East are principally frozen
surface and bottom fish of several species (shark, etc.), of good, but second
quality and with less value on the international market.
3.        The first quality species are principally the tuna species yellow-
fin, skipjack, and some bluefin; queenfish; high quality hook-and-line-caught
bottom fish such as the rose bream, rockfish and red snapper; lobster; and
small quantities of turtle meat.
B. Local Markets and Middle Eastern Export Markets
4.        The local market for frozen fish is small, mostly constituting the
army, prisons, hospitals, and other state institutions, which together
consume about 150-200 tons per year; consumption is expected to increase as
more local refrigeration facilities become available.
5.        The Middle Eastern market for low-priced fish is not large and very
little information is available to indicate whether it might change in the
next few years. Based on existing agreements, it is expected that 500-1,000
tons of fish could be marketed in the Ifiddle East, primarily in Jordan with
prices of about US$300 per ton, CIF.
C. Other Export Markets
Queenfish
6.        Project vessels are expected to catch about 500 tons per annum
of this species. The only substantial market is in the Hawaiian Islands of



ANNEX 13
Page 2
the U.S. which imports about 10,000 tons per year, primarily to supplement
the small local production. Prices are good for excellent quality. In July
1972 prices were US$1,100 per ton CIF for frozen fillets. The round weight
equivalent price would be US$390 per ton FOB Mukalla. Difficulties are not
foreseen in marketing the small PDRY production if quality could be achieved.
Bottomfish
7.        Several species of bottom fish caught in PDRY are highly favored
in the U.S. and Japan. In the U.S., red snapper and related species bring
a very high price if the quality is excellent. In July 1972, red snapper
was priced on the New York wholesale market at about US$1,000 per ton. In
Japan, red breams, called "tai", are used for festivals and ceremonial
banquets where they are served whole. For this market, the fish must be in
almost perfect condition. Hook-and-line-caught fish from PDRY, if handled
carefully, would be excellent for this market. About 50 tons of breams per
year are conservatively expected to be caught. The FOB price at Mukalla for
these species is expected to be at least US$440 per ton.
Spiny Lobster
8.        Spiny lobster connotes a commodity grouping composed of a variety
of lobster species from both temperate and tropical waters. The total world
catch of spiny lobster during 1964 to 1970 remained at about 97,000 tons.
Most of the production of tropical spiny lobsters is from the Carribean which
in 1970 produced about 23,000 tons. The main market is the U.S., where the
ex-vessel price of frozen lobster tails is about US$3.00 per ,pound or about
US$6,600 per ton. It is expected that PDRY would have no difficulty in
marketing its production of this species, estimated at about 90 tons per
annum.
Tuna
9.        Tuna is expected to be the most important export fish in both
volume and price from the project area.
10.       Production.  The anticipated project production of yellowfin and
skipjack tuna of about 1,700 tons per year is small by international standards.
World production of yellow fin and skipjack was 613,000 tons in 1969. Tables
I and 2 show the world production of tuna by country and by species during
the period 1960 through 1969.
11.       Industry growth rates of catch have been good, growing until
recently at a rate of about 6% per year. Recently, however, growth has
been slower and prices higher due to a gradual limitation on the supply of
harvested raw materials, since traditional stocks of tuna, such as the long
line tuna fishery of the open oceans and the surface fishery of the tropical
Eastern Pacific have reached or possibly exceeded the level of maximum
sustainable harvest.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
12.       Prices.  Frozen tuna is a world commodity which has relatively free
access to the major world markets. There is a close relationship between
trends in prices in Japan, the United States, and Western Europe. However,
there are preferred species which are related to market preference, fish size,
and the resulting effect upon product-yield, quality, and labor costs in the
canning process. Yellowfin, as the prime light meat species, was generally
used as a standard for light meat prices. Price trends of yellowfin and
skipjack are now usually closely related because yellowfin is becoming
scarcer and skipjack is increasingly used for canning operations.
13.       Table 3 gives the prices for yellowfin in Japan and the United
States for the years 1957-1970. United States prices were weak during the
early 1960's, having been considerably higher in 1954 and 1955 (not shown
in table). Since 1964 and coincident with a levelling-off of world supplies
of tuna, prices have been steadily increasing. The 1966 inventory crisis
among major U.S. canners caused a sharp (but temporary) rise in prices that
year. In Japan, the price rise has been continuing since the early 1950's
and at a more rapid rate than in the United States.
14.       Consumption.  Consumption of tuna is associated with changes in
personal income, population growth, the price of tuna, and the prices of
other fish and other competing protein products. Both personal income and
population have risen steadily in the major market areas for tuna, and it
is certain that these factors are a major element in the growth of tuna
usage.
15.       The United States, Japan and Western Europe are the major world
markets for tuna. In the United States consumption is almost entirely in
canned form and has been growing at almost twice the rate of population
growth, or about 3% per year, resulting in an increase in raw material
usage averaging 14,000 m tons per year. Per capita U.S. consumption has
increased at the rate of 0.04 kg per year over the past 10 years, and total
use of tuna in 1969 amounted to about 461,000 tons.
16.       In Japan the situation is quite different; only a small amount of
tuna is consumed in canned form; most of it is eaten raw (sashimi), or
smoked and dried in various ways, or as an ingredient of fish sausage.
Japanese per capita consumption is high, about 3.25 kg per year, or 1.4
times that of the U.S. However, per capita consumption has not increased
during the past 10 years and is presently well below the high levels attained
in 1961 and 1962. This lack of increase is almost certainly related to the
average increase of US$22 per metric ton per year in the price of yellowfin
and skipjack tuna during this period. Prior to 1962, Japanese consumption
of tuna was rising steadily but has now stabilized at about 325,000 tons.
17.       Tuna consumption in Western Europe has more than doubled in the
last decade and now exceeds 200,000 tons. Per capita consumption has
increased at a rapid rate but is quite low, 0.67 kg, when compared with the



ANNEX 13
Page 4
United States or Japan. The increase in per capita consumption combined
with a population growth of one percent per year has resulted in an increase
in raw material usage averaging 10,500 m tons per year. Trade sources
indicate that the recent price rises in both raw material and canned product
have weakened .his demand slightly.
18.       The anticipated markets, by major areas, may be summarized as
follows:
Year                 Area                 Market Size
(tons)
1972                U.S.A.                503,000
Japan                350,000
Europe               256,000
Others               125,000
1,234,000
1975                U.S.A.               545,000
Japan                375,000
Europe               288,000
Others               176,000
1,384,000
19.       World Trade.  There is a substantial world trade in raw frozen
tuna. Japan is the major exporting country, and Japanese trading companies
handle not only the catches of the Japanese vessels but also a large share
of the catches of the Korean and Taiwanese fleets operating from overseas
bases. In addition, Korean and Taiwanese tuna catches exported through
Japanese trading companies totalled 61,000 tons in 1968. Foreign-caught
tuna is sometimes returned to Japan for domestic use or re-export by the
trading companies. The major importing countries are the United States,
Italy and Japan.  A large share of the shipments are made through trans-
shipping points in third countries. The major shipping and transshipping
points in the Indian Ocean are Mombasa, Kenya; Tamatave, Madagascar; Port
Louis, Mauritius; and Penang, Malaysia.
20.       Future Industry Trends.  Since 1962, the world supply of albacore
and light meat tunas has shown only modest growth after the period of rapid
expansion following World War II.  At the present time, many of the world's
fisheries are being fully exploited.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
21.       Longline fishing, which has provided about 40% of the supply in
recent years, is operating on fully- or over-exploited stocks. The
discovery of new subsurface stocks of tuna is unlikely and, in fact, in-
creases in surface fishing for the younger fish may decrease recruitment
to the stocks presently fished by the longline vessels. Surface fishing
for yellowfin tuna in the tropical Eastern Pacific is presently under
regulation and increases in efforts are unlikely to produce any substantial
increase in catch. Surface fishing in the Eastern Atlantic is also increas-
ing and so are catches. However, future increases will probably be modest
relative to world demand for raw material. Large and still underdeveloped
resources of skipjack tuna exist in the tropical areas of the Pacific,
Atlantic, and Indian Oceans, but these resources are difficult to exploit on
any large-scale industrial basis.
22.       Industry growth will be governed by the rate of development of raw
material supplies. Minor markets in developing countries will continue to
increase as population, living standards and protein consumption grow. The
total tuna market is expected to grow at the rate of about 50,000 m tons
per year through 1975.






PEOPLE' S DE:DCRATIC  <E:PUHLIC OF  WN
FlISEBIIE; PROJECT
World Production of Tuna by Country
('000 tons)
Country                        1960    1961     1962    1963     1964  1965    1966   1967    1968        1969
Japan (1)                       480     576      620     566      594    566      628    549     522       515
United States                   145     162      154     161      159    171      154    196     187       194s
Taiwan                            9      10       13      12        13     13      27     39       78       89
South Korea                      -       -         1        1        2      8      25     34      36        69
France                           32      36       41      46       4t9    42       51     51      66        49
Spain                            36      27       37       40       30     39      33     39      31        32
Ecuador                          19      12       11      13        10     15      12     20      18        20
Peru                             27      28       24       28       17     12      12     17       10       16
Ryukyu Islands (2)                6       9       11       10       13     14      15     16       19       15
Australia                         3       4        5        5        8      7       8      6        7        9
Others                            6      49       47       61        4                                       362
Total                           763     913      964      943      939    924     986  1,029   1,043    1,081
(1) Includes young tuna.
(2) Recorded as Various tuna" but mostly bluefin and skipjack tuna.
Source: FAO Yearbook of Fishery Statistics



PEOPLE'S DEMCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
iorld Production of Tuna by Species
('000 tons)
Species                          1960    1961      1962    1963      1964   1965    1966   1967    1968        1969
Albacore                          169     156       182      205      183    204      196    224       190      212
Yellowfin                         271     285       269      247      255    247      271    239      332       345
Skipjack                          128     223       260      217      246    234      305    323      283       268
Bigeye                             75     116       129     133       119    117      116    120      120       132
Bluefin                           109     117       105      122      114    102       98    102        97      102
Various (1)                        11      16        19       19       22      21       21     21       21       22
Total                             763     913       964      943      939    925   1,007  1,029   1,043    1,081
Bonito                            147     171       120      145      135    126      146    157      122       130
Frigate Mackerel                   33      27        31       57       35      40      39      41      30        46
Little Tuna                         3        3        5        4         4      5        8      9        8        8
Various Tuna-like
Scombriforms (2)                 118      99       102      116      113    122      160    174      228       225
Total                             301     300       258      322      287    293      353    381      388       409
Grand Total                     1,064   1,213    1,222   1,265    1,226  1,218   1,360  1,410   1,431    1,490
(1) Known to be largely tuna species.
(2) Less tonnage shown in (1).
Source: FAO Yearbook of Fishery Statistics



ANNEX 13
Table 3
PEOPLE'S DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Price Per Ton for Yellowfin 1957-1970
United States (1)         Japan (2) FOB   1
Yellowfin              Yellowfin
1957                                      293                    255
1958                                      298                    273
1959                                      287                    247
1960                                      276                     249
1961                                      282                     269
1962                                      335                    345
1963                                      291                    328
1964                                      284                     332
1965                                      309                    345
1966                                      403                    495
1967                                      311                     432
1968                                      342                     405
1969                                      357                     420
1970 1/                                   400                     570
Sources: (1) B.C.F. Statistics and Market News Service.
(2) Katsuo to Maguro
2f In pre-devabuation dollars.






ANNEX 14
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPULIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Financial Results
Assumptions
1.        Fishing Vessels.  Table 1 shows present and projected fishing
operations. Project vessels to be built would be the inboard sambuks
(Annex 3). They would have a useful life of 15 years (requiring engine
replacement after 8 years) and make 240 trips per year of 7 - 10 hours
duration each. The boat would carry a crew of eight, skipper included, and
fish with a variety of gear. The catch rate would average about 56 tons per
annum, which is about 10-15% higher than present operations. Demonstration
vessels are expected to catch about 70 tons per annum.
2.        Based on auction records, the average ex-vessel price has been
about SYD 45 per ton, but it is expected that due to the new marketing
arrangements the Corporation can pay substantially higher prices. For
purposes of financial evaluation, a price of SYD 52 per ton has been used
in the calculations, a price which provides an incentive for longer fishing
trips and the use of ice to preserve quality of the catch.
3.        Investment costs for a fully equipped inboard sambuk would be about
SYD 2,180 (US$6,310), while the demonstration sambuk is expected to cost
about SYD 2,440 (US$7,069).
4.        Operating costs include fuel, ice,, crew remuneration, repairs and
maintenance, marketing and miscellaneous items and are based on existing
records and prices. Tables 2 and 3 show an annual income statement and cash
flow respectively for a typical project vessel, while Tables 4 and 5 show
the expected cash flows for the two participating cooperatives in Mukalla
and Shihr based on the expected number of fishing vessels provided to them.
The cash flows indicate that the cooperatives would be able to repay their
subloans, equivalent to 90% of the investment costs and carrying a 6% interest,
without undue difficulties over an 8-year period, including one year of grvs.r:.
The financial rate of return for a project vessel would be about 26%.
A sensitivity test carried out with regard to investment costs shows that an
increase of 15% would lower the rate of return to 18% while a decrease of 15%
would increase the rate to 32%. These rates are expected to provide
sufficient incentive to the two cooperatives to participate in the project.
In addition, fishermen presently employed on outboard sambuks would improve
their income by about 60% or from SYD 88 (US$255) to SYD 139 (US$402) per
annum by switching to inboard sambuks.
6.        Shore Facilities.  Shore facilities would comprise a fish-receiving
station at Shihr and cold storage and freezing facilities at Mukalla with



ANNEX 14
Page 2
insuilated trucks to move ice and fishi between them as exnlained in detail in
Annex 2. The facilities would have a lifetime of 20 years.
7.        Table 6 shows the expected revenues from fishi sales, hised on
estimated catch composition and prices prevailing in international markets
as detailed in Annex 13. Table 7 gives a detailed estimate of operating
costs for shore facilities based on present wage rates and operationi of
similar facilities. Table 8 presents the expected annual savings from
shifting lobster processing from old and obsolete facilities to tile proposed
new facilities. Table 9 aggregates Tables 6, 7 and 8 to show the expocted
income from shore facilities operations, while Table 10 displavs the expected
cash flow.
8.        The financial rate of return after taxes for the shore facilities
would be 14%. A sensitivity analysis showed that a 15% increase in invest.'Ient
costs would lower the rate of return to 11% while a 15% decrease would in-
crease the rate of return to 17%. These rates are adequate considering the
60% taxes levied on the operations. If benefits expected to be realized
through shifting the lobster processing from the old and obsolete facilities
to the new shore facilities were excluded, a rate of return of 9% from fish
operations alone would be realized.



PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC RSPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHRIlS PROJECT
Financial Results of Present andl Projected Fishing Operations
(SYD)
Present Fishing  Operation           Projected Fishing operations
Outboard          Inboard                         Inboard        Demonstration
SamObuk           Sambuk                          Sambuk              Sajbukc
Catch (ton)                                   22                5°                              56                  70
Price (fils/kg)                              45                 45                              52                  52
Sales Fevenues                              990             2,250                            2,912              3,640
Marketing Erpenses (5%)                       50               113                             146                 182
Revenues                        94                        2,137 (,M                                          TW
Operatirg Costs
Fuel                                        234                216                             324                389
Ice                             -                ~~~~~~~~~- 224                                    280
(Basis for Crew Shares)                  70)            (1,921)                         (2-,21)             (277B9)
Crew Remuneration (50%)                      353               961                          1,109               1,394
Social Welfare (5%)                           35                96                            111                 139
State Tax (10%)                               n                192                            220                 279
Repair and Maintenance                       90                100                            100                 120
Miscellaneous, Overheads                      20                                               80                 140
Total Operating Cost                     60315                                           2,177
Net Profit to Cooperative before
Depreciation and Interest                 137                522                            598                717
Rate of Return to Cooperatives               ii.%               19%                            26%                _
Daily Earnings per Fisherman (Fils)          367                                                                                (s70578  698  C6



ANNEx 14
Table 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REEPUBLIC OF YENW
FISHERIES PROJECT
Annual Income Statement
Inboard Sambuk
SYD
Sales Revenues                         2,912
Marketing Expenses                       1.46
Revenues                           2,766
Operating Cost
Fuel                                     324
Ice                                      224
(Basis for Crew Shares)           kZ,2lY)
Crew Remuneration                     1,109
Social Welfare                           ill
State Tax                                220
Repair and Maintenance                   100
Miscellaneous, Overheads                  80
Total Operating Cost               2,168
Profit Before Depreciation
and Interest                          598
Depreciation                             380
Net Profit                               218



PNDPLR'S DDOCRALTIC RhPUBLIC OF YEW
FISHIUI FF)JECT
Projected Caih Flow: Inboard S_buk
(3rD)
Year                  1    2      3       41             6      7       8      9      10      11      12      13      3.4      15    Total
I. 3URCUs OF FUNDS
1. Funds Gmnwated                  596  598   598    596   598       598    598      596   596    596      598     598     596      598     596   8,970
2. Proceeds froa Project Loan   1,962                                                                                                             1,962
3. Om Contributio                  218                                                                                                              218
Total Sources of Funds       2778    W           7       M      3-m    *3       "9                      W       8 
II. APPLICATION OF FQIDS
1. Project rnveott               2,180                                                                                                            2,180
2. Replaceint Needs
(i) Nete                                            600                   600                    600                     600                    2,I400
(ii)  lgines                                                                             1,000                                                   1,000
3. Debt Service                    118  352   352    352      352    352   352       352                                                          2582
Total Application of Funds 2,29   5        T 7*3 352                 9      ;                                  -                -0            13,1
Net Inflow (Outflow)
(a)  Annual                       480  246   2416  (354)    246    246  (354)    246   (402)   (2)    598          598       (2)    598     598
(b)  Cumlative                    480   726   972   618    8614 1,110    756    1,002    600    598   1,196   1,794   1,792   2,390   2,988   2,988
Debt Service Coverage:                       1.7                                                                                                                        (D   4



Mnz'A LumAtic WULEI OF 13
DUMS JWti
Proleetad C"ah Plow 4W       In  Comwatfva
tom.                    1       2             3 J          5        6        7         8         9        10       1        12       1        14                j6       17       18      Totl
i. SOumo oW ruts
1. _ind  Owrat.d                 4,784   4,704   4?784   4.784    4,784   4,784    4,781,   4,784    4,784    b1784   4,784    4,784    4,7854    UB            4,7684    -                         71 ,o
-      5.960    5,960    5 960    5,980    5,960    5,960 59980        5,960     5,960    5,960    5 980    5,960    5,960    5,960    5,960     -                09,700
-      4,781    4,794   4 ,784    4  7 4784   4,784   4,74    4,78474    4,78h    4,7B    4,,784,4 11,781,4   b,78b    4,78b,   b, 784   4,784           71,760
-    .1B6    h. 1B6   4 186   4,1B6   4,186    4 16    4186   4.B   ,86               4.66 _186    4,156    h.lM    4 186   4.lBM   -8      62.79D
Sob-Total                           194 !-                                                                                                                         11,,                       296,M
2. Pwcee  fra Pr*oJct Lowi  15,696   19,620  15,696  13.734    -                                                                                                                                    64,7W6
Toa Sowass of linde   2UME   32=    W0                   331i6T99M I73C   T§731   I               IY7i   IY7Ni  IY7    I;73C   IN;I   T§;X               TY7S   Difl   IY             4,    3
Di. !PLICTI4a  OF JINS
1. Project In^ante             17,440  21,8o0  17,440  15,260        -                                                                                                                              71,940
2. RoolAapa nt *ged
(i)                                                     48 _  -  -  4,800    6,000    1,800 6, 04               9,000    6,0      4,8Q     9,000    6,000    4,800   4,200      -        -       79,200
(ii)  bginea                                                                                  -        8,000    10,000    8,000    7.O00     -                                                    33,oDD
3. Dbbt SytLV.                     944   3.99     7,280    9       U.66 1O.616   1.616   616616          8.800     5,280    2 4       64,                                                           8S 2c6
Total AppicaLion of
Mn"                    18,384  25,796   24,720  30,038   17,616   16,416   20,616   17,616    21,600    24,280  16,464 1.1,800    9,000    6,000    4,,80       4,200     -        -      269,346
let Inflow (Outflow)
(a)  Annua                      3,840   6,768    8,268   4,956   2,118   3,318         (882)   2,118    (1,866)   (4,546)   3,270    7,934   10,734   23,73h  111,934  10,750   8,970    4,186
(b) CItjva                              10,608  18,876  23,832   25,950   29.268   28,386   30,504    28,638    24,092  27,362   35,296   46,030  59,764   74,698  85,118   94,418   98.604   98,604
91m



nD*ls Dmemaxc or wof
PmL'       SAI    3110?3(
Prob ad  CA    n    oia.  cu        Scbmetiv. b1J
w       2                          5   i  -  6  1             S         9         10       f                           k L  3           16       1                 Tota
I. SOUCMS o0 FUDS
1. FM" Oenerated                 7,176    7,176    7,176    7,176    7,176    7,176   7,176    7,1T      7,176     7,176    7,176    7,176    7,176    7,176    7,176                              107,640
-      5,980    5,960    5,960    5,960    5.960    5,960    5.960     5,960     5,960    5 960    5,90o   5,960    5,960    5,960    S8960                        099700
-       4,166    4,16    4,166    4,16    4A,6    4486        4,186    fi,186    4'l86    4, 86    4,186    4,186    4,16       ,1*6    4186              62,790
- .77 7.7 7 M1 7.774  7.T74                      7,  772.774 7J?              71 .77 7 .77  7.772  7M       k      ,        -LM  7.77  226.
Bob-Total                                                                                         25,16 2                              25,16   25,16               T
2. Proceds_ fr   ProJest La    23,5144   19,620   13,734   25,506                                                                 t2,40&
3. Om Cantrib.tlico             2 616    2 180    1.526   2 831                                                                                                                                       9
Total Soues of 5ds   wW*                                                            m  Km 8   ;        =   ;;m ;-l ;2n  ;                                S 25;=   T7m ;-   7rm  WI,300
II. APPLICATIOC 0? r(DB
1. Project b.westa.ts          26,160   21,800   15,260   28,3tD     -                                                                                                                               91,560
2. R pl1     t Need
(i)  ne.                                              7,200    6,000    4,200   15,000   6,000      4,200    15,000    6,000    4,200    15,000   6,00o    4,200    t,800                     100,800
(ii)  34gin                                                                                 -       12,000    10,000    7,O0   13,000                                                            42,000
3, Debt Seryico                 1,416   _ . 0 8,70   1           , 7     4          14l.784  14 784    1      0 560  7 040  4.576     -         -             44                   4
Total Application of
Fids                 27,576   27,204   23,830   47,282   20,784   18,964   29,784   20,784    26,760    32,040  17,576   17,200   15,000    6,ooo    4,200    7,800                       342,804
Net Inflos (outflow)
(a)  Annual                     5,760    7,752    8,772    6,174    4,332    6,132   (4,668)  4,332   (1,644)  (6,924)  7,540    7,916   10,116   19,116   20,916   10,1140   11,960    7,771
(b)   cleativ.                          13,512   22,284  28,458   32,790  38,922  34,254  38,586    36,942    30,018  37,558   45,474   55,590   74,706   95,622  105,762  117,722  125,496   125,496
-A
0'



PEOPLIE'S DEMOCRAWIC REPUBLIC OF YEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Landings and Price Estimates for Project Species
Unit Price to   Total Amount to     Unit Price          Total Amount
Species             Catch    Cooperative       4ooperative    FOB - Maikalla         FOB - MukaLla
(Tons)  (SYD)  (US$)          (SY)          S       (US$)   (SYD)          (US$)
Yeliowfin           1,400    60      174          844,ooo      134      390      187,600       546,ooo
Skipjack             500    54       156          27,000       119      345       59,500       172,500
Other Tuna            300   45       130          13,500        96      280       28,800        844,000
Queenfish             500    50      145          25,ooo       134      390       53,600  1/   156,000
Shark                 350   4o       116          144,000      100      290       28,000 3/   81,200
First Qaality
Demersal Fish       50   66       191           3,300       153      440        7,650        22,000
Second Quality
Demersal Fish      200    45      145           9,000        88      255       17,600        51,000
Second Quality
Pelagic Fish       300    45      145          13,500        88      255       26.400o       76.500
Total         3,600                        189,300                         4)9,150     1,189,200
.L/ Fi31et 400 tons.
I/ Dreessed 280 tons.
F!



ANNzX 14
Table 7
PEOPLE'S DUiOCRATIC R=ULIC OF YEMEN
FISHIRIM PROJICT
ProJected Operatina Costs: Shore Facilities
(SYD)
Year                    1         2        3         4          5         6      7-22
Fish Handled (tons)             -        -    1,720      3,600     3,600      3,600     3,600
ADEN
General Overheads          2,900    2,900      3,900     3,900      3,900     3,900     3,900
MUKALLA
Fixed Costs
Local Staff              1,000    1,000      3,900     8,700      8,700     8,700     8,700
Insurance                                    1,750     1,750     1,750      1,750     1,750
General Overheads        1,000    1,000      1,000     2,000      2,000     2,000     2,000
Variable Costs
Power                                        7,200    15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000
Lubrication                                    300       600        600       600       600
Ammonia                                        300       600        600       600       600
Wter                                         2,000     4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000
Maintenance                                      -       800      1,500     2,400     3,200
Labor                    2,000    2,000      4,300     9,000      9,000     9,000     9,000
Packing Material                             1,300     2,800     2,800      2,800     2,800
Transport and Loading    -           -      1,000    23,000    23,000    23.000    23,000
Subtotal            4,000    4,000    33,o50    68,250   68,950    69,850    70,650
SHIHR
Labor                                        1,200     2,500      2,500     2,500     2,500
Refrigeration                                  500     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000
Insurance                                      100       100        100       100       10(
Subtotal                                1,800     3,6&U      3,600     3,600     3,600
Total Operating Costs    6,90o    6,900    38,750    75,750    76,450    77,350    78,150
U=..... ......  .==su. =SS==    =.=saft   =  ss=s.   =u===s=



ANNEX 14
Table a
PEOPLE'S DDEOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES PROJECT
Incremental Annual Benefits from Lobster Operations
Without ProJect                          With Project
90 tons of lobster tails processed
SID                                        SID
Purchase Price:                504                                         504
10% to Cooperative:             50
Operating Cost per Ton
Wages                                                                       59
Transport                       52                                          52
Ioe                              9                                  plus Marginal
Water                            3                                  Cost of Operation of
Freezing                        12                                  New Facilities:
Storage                         27                                         >22
Loading                          5
Adimnistration                  10 J
Subtotal                    2                                           133
Total Cost                   790                                         687
Price FOB Mukalla            1,550                                       2,2S0v.
Gross Return                   760                                       1,563
Total Incremental Net Profit -
before depreciation, interest
and taxes:                                    SYD 72,300 p;.a.
1/ 50% estimated specialized labor for cleaning and grading.
2/ CIF USA East Coast; US$6,600 less freight.



PEDPLE'S DEHCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FTSHERIES PWDJEBT
Projected Income Stateaent: Shore Facilities
(SYD Thousands)
Year                     1      2        3        4        5       6        7      8      9     10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22
Purchase of Fish (tons)             -      -      1,720   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600            Constant
REVENUES
1.  Fish Sales                      -      -        195      409      409      409      409        Constant
2.  Ice Sales                       -      -          7       14       14       14       14
Total Revenues                                  5      10 
COSTS
1.  Purchase Costs                  -      -         9a    19        189      189      18a
2. Operating Costs  !               2      2         28       60       60       61       62        Constant
Shore Facilities 
3. Administration                   5      5         11       16       16       16       16
Total Costs                    7     7        129      25       265   -766   _767
Net Profit before Depreci-
ation, Interest and Taxes
(i)  Fish Operations          (7)   (7)        73      158      158      157      156
(ii)  Lobster Operationsl/   -        -         72       72       72       72       72
Sub-total              77  77    WM   230                          229 _7zS   =   g   TM    7  TM   nU   "   M   T2U  M   :2  72    5 7=2                                226  2M2
Depreciation             -      -         34       34       34       34       34   34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34
Interest Payments        3    25          47       49       50       50       47   44    41    37    33    29    25    21    16    11            6    -      -      -      -      -
Net Profit (Loss) before Taxes (10)  (_)             6    --07         4 6                   T0 114  17    1            17   -17 T7          17  I7Y    194 19         1-    31914   I       3 !
Corporation Taxes2/    -        -         13       88       88       87       88   90    92    94    97    99   101   104   107   110   113   116   116   116   116   116
Net Profit (Loss)                 (7)  (T3)          51       59       56      ;56       59  =0    ME  -66    66 7                      9    71   -77   -7    -7          5 7U   -77   -7    7
91 5
1/ See Annex 1,, Table B.                                                                                                                                                                           FD
T/ 60%; loss carried forward.



PEDPLE'S DEIDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISH31RIES PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: Shore Facilities
(SYD Thousands)
Year                    1      2       3      4     5      6      7     8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22   Total
I. SOURCES OF FUNDS
1. Net Profit (Loss)             (10)  (32)    51    59    58    58    59    60    61    63    64    66    68    69    71    73    75    78    78    78    78    78   1,303
2. Depreciation                                  34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34                   680
3. Interest                        3    25       47    49    50    50    47    44    41    37    33    29    25    21    16    11               6                                       534
Total Funds Generated        77)   77)   Tr    12   iE         i; T4    i 7        I3;   13T 7 I76  T3T   !    R T7   TM    M    T       IT     m     T       M      M    IE    TIT
4. Proceeds from Project Loan
(i)  IDA                       86   500      45    37                                                                                                                                668
(ii)  Government                 7   159       3L    3                                                                                                                                172
Total Proceeds                93     9      7     7
Total Sources of Funds        86   652    180   182   142   142   140   138   136   134   131   129   127   124   121   118   115   112   112   112   112   112   3,357
II. APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1. Project Investments            93   659       48    40                                                                                                                               840
2. Replacements                                                                          16                 148                         16                                              180
3. Debt Service
(i)  Interest                  3    25      47    49    50    50    47    44    41    37    33    29    25    21    16    11               6    -                                   534
(ii)  Aniortiiit'ori            _ -          -      -      -     50    53    56    59    63    67    71    75    79    84    89    94                   _                            840
Total Debt Service          - T    7   5                                    1 T           To    To    TI       0    T0   m        Tio                                            1, 7101
Total Application of
Funds                     96   684       95    89    50   100   100   100   116   100   100   2148   100   100   100   .16   100                                              2,394
Net Inflow (Outflow)
(a)  Annual                      (10)  (32)    85    93    92    42    40    38    20    34    31  (119)   27    24    21                2    15   112   112   11?   112   112
(b)  Cumulative                         (021    L43   136   228   270   310   348   368   402   433   3114   341   365   386   388   403   515   627   739   851   963                  963
CD 



ANNEX 15
Page  1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF Yr-E;_
FISHIERIES PPRJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.        The project's benefits to PDRY's economy would consist of (i)
increased fish production and (ii) cost savings and qualitv improvements
in lobster processing over the project's life of 22 years. About 18 boats
would replace existing obsolete vessels which would become unserviceable
during the 4-vear investment period. It is estimated that an additional 20
boats have been heavily damaged during the 1972 storms. The remaining 57
boats and the five demonstration vessels would fish for the proposed shore
facilities for export marketing. Wlithout the project, boats needing replace-
ment, would discontinue fishing and production for the domestic market would
diminish proportionally.  Total net catches of new' boats have therefore been
allocated as benefits resulting from the project (see Table).
2.        Projected catch rates and revenues remain the sane as those used
in the financial evaluation, while the ooerating costs have been adjusted
for duties and taxes. Project investments are net of duties and include
the costs of shore facilities, boats, gear, supoorting services and replace-
ment needs during tne life of the project. Labor has been fully costed in
the economic calculations, based on the prevailing catch-shlaring system
(Annex 15), the projected catch rate of 56 ton per year and an ex-vessel
price of SYD 52 per ton. The 3,600 tons of fish for export are valued at
export prices (FOB !Mukalla) and the 2,100 tons for the domestic market at
domestic prices.
3.        Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
would be 30%. If the cost savings and quality improvements from lobster
processing were excluded, the economic rate of return would drop to 22%.
To test sensitivity to investment cost changes, economic returns assuming
a 15% price increase (decrease) were also calculated. In the first case,
the economic rate of return would decrease to 25% and in the latter case
increase to 35%. These rates of return are satisfactory for the project.
Further detials are presented in the attached table.






PC   SDEYFATIC7 F_-P!BLIC 'F Y7Y5-;
FI-REEIES PROTECT
Eco--lic Pate 1f Ret:-cn Calculti-ns
YEAR                            1        2        ;        4        5        6        7         8        9        10     11         12      13        14      15       16       17        I"       13       20        21       22
Fish Productlon
1.  Production of Project 'eooels
(a)  ProJect Vessels                      1,120    2,240    3,990    5,670    5,670    5,672    5,670    5,670    5,670    5,670    5,670    5,670   5,670    5,670   5,670    4,500    3,430    ',68o    5,670    5,6?0    5,670    5,670
(b)  Repla-emntn                                                                                                                                                                 1,120    2,240    3,
2. Pr-duc'i:n Sold ts M-rketc:
(a) Du-estic                             '1,12S    2,240    2,270    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070   2,070    2,070   2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2.07'   2,070    2,070
(b) Export                                                  1,720    3,600    3,6oo    3,600    3,600 3,600    3,6oo                 3,600 3,6oo      3,600    3,600   3,600    3,600    3,600    3,600    3,600    3,60,    3,600    3,600
Economic Rate of Retire Calculations
-------------------------------------------------------   --_-------------------------------   SYD  Thousads  ---------------------  -----------------~-~-~ -----------------~ ~~-~-~~ - ------~~--------------
I.  INVESTM4ENTS
1. Fishing Vessel            _.6                    43.6    66.7    65.4                                                                                                          43.6     43.6     66.7      65.4                      (265.2) &/
2. Net and Engine Replaceme,--                                        12.0    12.0    18.8       30.0     12.0    38.8       50.0     42.0     48.8    30.0     12.0   18.8       18.0                        12.0     12.0     18.8      30.0
3. Shore Facilities and
Supporting Ser-ics                 10.0   6S9.S    48.o    4o.o                                             i6.o                      148.0                               16.o
sub-totai                      i36.6    702.6   114.7    117.4    12.0    18.8        30.0    12.0    54.8        50.0     42.0    196.3    30.0     12.0    18.8      77.6     43.6     66.7      77.4     12.0      18.8   (235.2)
I. BENEFITO
1. Gross Rerenues
a. Dorestic Msrket                     5-.2    116.5   118.o    107.6   107.6   107.6   107.6   107.6    107.6   107.6    107.6    107.6  107.6    107.6  1i7.6    107.6    107.6    107.6    107.6    107.6    107.6    107.6
b. Export  j1                            -       -      195.5    409.2    409.2   409.2    409.2    409.2    409.2   409.2    409.2    40o.2   409.2   409.2   409.2    409.2    409.2   409.2    409.2    409.2    409.2    409.2
Sob-totel                       5c.2   116.5   313.5   516.8    516.8   516.8   516.8              516 8     516.   8 5268    516.    8 516    16.2    516.8   S16    51b.8    516.8    516.8    516.8    516.8    516.8    516.8
2. Operatiag Costs
s.fFishing Vessels  %                  33.1    66.2   119.0   168.5   168.5   i68.5   166.5   168.5    168.5   168.5    i68.5   166.5   168.5    168.5   168.5    168.5    168.5    168.5    168.5    168.5    168.5    168.5
b.  Shore Facilities                    s.9      6.9    38.2    74.8    75.8         76.4    78.2    78.2       78.2    78.2      78.2     78.2    78.2      78.2    78.2     78.2      78.2     78.2     78.2     78.2      78.2     78.2
Sub-total                       40.0    73.1   157.2   243.3   244.3    244.9   246.7   246.7    246.7   246.7    246.7   246.7   246.7    246.7  246. 7    246.7    246.7    246.7    246.7    246.7    246.7    246.7
3. Net Benefits Fishing
Operation-                          18.2    43.4   156.3    273.5   272.5   271.9   270.1   270.1    270.1   270.1    270.1   270.1  270.1    270.1  270.1   270.1    270.1    270.1    270.1   270.1    270.1    270.1
4. Net Benefits Lobster
Operations ,/                         -        -      72.3    72.3      72.3     72.3    72.3    72.3        72.3     72.3     72.3      72.3    72.3     72.3   72.3      72.3      72.3     72.3     72.3      72.3     72.3     72.3
Sob-total                       15.2    43.4   228.6    345.8    344.8   344.2   342.4   342.4    342.4   342.4    342.4    342.4   342.4    342.4  342.4    342.4    342.4    342.4    342.4   342.4    342.4    342.4
I. NET BEllEFITB PROJECT                     (118.4)  (629.2)   113.9    228.4    332.8   325.4    312.4   330.4    287.6   292.4    300.4    145.6   312.4   330.4   323.6   264.8    298.8    275.7   265.0   330.4    323.6    577.6
Economic Rate of Return:  30%
Economic Rate of Return Excluding Lobster Processing: 236
1/ Residual Value based on discounted net benefits.
2]  See Annex 14, Table 9.
%f Excluding ice; inciuded in shore faoilitles operations.






. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 ;0                            
... g.m r .... * ,,,,':\E g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........  *\
i s 't t W X s t S { m R .' ' .- .' '''0',, ',, ,'?, ........................... ':-- *--., A, >............  '......
aR_ x , , . ,')° . ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~"4. ----, '--'---'\
g cx s                     ^: I   K                                                                                   . ;Q. . r                                        r                 =                     @ Q   @                                                                                                  \~~~~~~~~~~7






TURKEY                                               64                                                                                   50S'4*
SY                        I R A               4N      Fisheries Port and Protected Anchorage                            R                    -
IRAQ 5                                    Fisheries Landing Sites                                     .   _ _-
A     Boatyards                                             -  
EIIJRZAR                              *     Fishenes  Research Station                    /                          --\
er;YPr  t   5 ^ u D |  t       o            #   ~~~Fisheries  Troimn,n    Cerler             \ /__                                                     ;       ,\o                                            M     A      NI
Kr A       ATU A-                        Ice Plant 
International BoundarieS
B dories of Governorates
Asphalted  Roads/ 
Other Roads or Tracksb / ,                                      \
ARAB    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2o-Bothyrnetnc  Lines 
s U DA N                                                           Projec:t Sites- Shore Facilities  /    ,
F    Main Town                                              V ./  )|
Project FisIg Area     / 
E iOPiA   SOAi                             o@Cpital City  C,   I                 
~~~~             -IThe Govenrtes/                 (- -
MILES                                   I      /y
0        tOO                 ~~~~~~~200 
10    Ir~~~~~~
KILOMETERS
iS.j s,k,fr Aos,  ii.e -v S.                                shb.t  -                                                                                                                                     +n         ;            
Y      E     M     E       N              ---------- --
A  R A  B 9                                        Ni''
RE  P   U   B  L  I                                                                                      t'Asol5
PEOPte'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBIC OF YE-MEN
fISHERIES PROJECT
t4.                                                                                                                             Or



