CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 370 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 12, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 370 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 12, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1973, between the PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A through E of the Project will be carried out by the Public
Corporation for Fish Wealth (the Corporation) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Corporation
part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Corporation"  means the Public Corporation    for Fish Wealth
established under Law No. 18 of 1970 of the Borrower;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d)   "Project Area" means the Borrower's Fifth Governorate and the
adjacent off-shore area extending to five nautical miles.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1983 and ending October 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is design-.ed as
represenfative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action re",uired or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts F through H of the
Project and shall cause the Corporation to carry out Parts A through E thereof
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
engineering, financial, fisheries and credit practices and shall provide promptly as
needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Corporation
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Corporation to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend to the Corporation for the purpose of
carrying out Parts A through E of the Project an amount equivalent to two million
seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($2,750,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit
and an additional amount of five hundred fifty thousand dollars ($550,000)


﻿6
equivalent out of the Borrower's funds under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation upon terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies
included in Parts G and H of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, within six
months after the date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the study described
under Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, within six months after
the date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, harbor engineering consultants and fisheris consultants acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions acceptablt to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause its Central Planning Commission to supervise
the execution of Parts F through H of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be established, within the
Corporation, a Fisheries Project Department whose responsibilities under the Project
are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall appoint, upon terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association, a qualified and experienced Project Manager, acceptable to the
Association, to head the Fisheries Project Department referred to in Sub-section
(a) above, with experience in industrial fisheries, fish marketing and executive
responsibilities.
(c)   The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association, appoint a
counterpart to the Project Manager referred to in Sub-section (b) above.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not carry out or permit to be carried out any other
tuna-based fisheries project in the Project Area.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspe.tion
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
perfonrmance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Corporation of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Corporation of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Ag eement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Corporation shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Corporation under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Corporation will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c)   Law  No. 18 of the year 1970 of the Borrower establishing the
Corporation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived


﻿9
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Corporation
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Corporation or
for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created, acquired or
taken over by the Corporation, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Corporation's business, operations or financial
situation.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in either paragraph (a) or (e) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Associatic- to the Borrower and the
Corporation.
(b)   the event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Corporation have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   The Fisheries Project Department referred to in Section 3.03(a) of
this Agreement has been established-


﻿10
(d)   The Project Manager and his counterpart referred to in Section 3.03(b)
and (c) of this Agreement have been appointed; and
(e)   The consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement
have been employed.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Corporation, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Corporation, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower and the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date July 11, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of
paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
MINFIN
Aden
People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ A. S. Ashtal
Authorized Represeniative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
1.   Insulation and                  930,000           100% of foreign
other materials,                                 expenditures
machinery, instal-
lation, equipment
and vehicles re-
lated to shore
facilities
II.  Civil works for                  170,000          65% of total ex-
shore facilities                                 penditures (repre-
senting the esti-
mated foreign ex-
penditure component)
Ill.  (a)  Engines, fishing          420,000           100  of foreign ex-
gear, office                                penditures or 90%
equipment                                   of total expenditures
if locally procured
(b)  vessel hulls               100,000          65% of total expendi-
tures (representing the esti-
mated foreign expenditure
component)
IV.  Consultants' serv-              600,000           100% of foreign
ices relating to                                 expenditures
engineering, and
management studies,
vessel construction,
fisheries operations
and emoluments of
Operational
Personnel


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
V.   Consultants' serv-              620,000         100% of foreign
ices relating to                                expenditures
fisheries devel-
opment, agricultural
and water supply
studies
VI.  Unallocated                     660,000
TOTAL              3,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower.
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:


﻿14
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Categories I through V shall
decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer
required therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Categories I through V shall
increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the
Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II or
III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    The construction of shore facilities comprising a fully equipped fish handling
and freezing plant at Mukalla and a receiving station at Shihr; and the
provision of related transports, communications and office equipment.
B.    The provision of five vessels for demonstration purposes.
C.    The provision of loans through the Corporation to cooperatives of fishermen
for the purchase of fully equipped fishing vessels.
D.    The provision of technical assistance related to the operation of the shore
facilities, the design of fishing vessels and the carrying out of fishing
operations.
E.    The carrying out of a management study in relation to the organizational
structure and accounting system of the Corporation.
F.    The carrying out of a fisheries development and harbor study.
G.    The carrying out of an agricultural study in the Wadi Hadramut area.
H.    The carrying out of a water supply study for the town of Mukalla.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Fisheries Project Department
1.    The Fisheries Project Department, within the Corporation and under the
direction of the Director-General of the Corporation, will be responsible for the
proper carrying out and supervision of the Project. The Fisheries Project Department
will be provided with adequate premises, equipment, supporting staff, means of
communication and transport facilities.
2.    The principal officers of the Fisheries Project Department will be (a) the
Project Manager, who will serve as head of the Department on a full-time basis
and will be stationed in Aden; (b) a Cold Storage Manager; (c) a Refrigeration
Engineer and (d) an Accountant, all of whom will serve on a full-time basis and
will be stationed in Mukalla.
3.    In addition, the Project Manager will have the services of all necessary
counterpart and supporting staff provided by the Corporation to run the Project.
4.    The Fisheries Project Department will be responsible for the general
administration of the Project and, more specifically, for the following:
(a)   recruiting, selecting  and   supervising  the  work    of  engineering
consultants;
(b)   operating the shore facilities;
(c)   purchasing, processing and selling, either domestically or through
export, fish landed by cooperatives and fishermen;
(d)   assisting the Corporation in the:
(i)          credit program; and
(ii)        management study;
(e)   evaluating the benefits realized under the Project;
(f)   collecting information on a monthly basis on the shore facilities and
fishing operations; and
(g)   preparing the annual reports on fishing operations.


