CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 370 YDR
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR FISH WEALTH
DATED APRIL 12, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 370 YDR
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR FISH WEALTH
DATED APRIL 12, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       April 12, 1973, between     INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR FISH WEALTH (hereinafter called the
Corporation).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Corporation
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the
Corporation, an amount equivalent to two million seven hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($2,750,000) out of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Corporation on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out Parts A through E of the
Project described in Schedule '. to the Development Credit Agreement with due


﻿4                                              A
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and fisheries practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Corporation in carrying out Part A of
the Project, the Corporation shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out the construction of the shore facilities included
in Part A of the Project, the Corporation shall employ contractors acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Corporation shall cause the fishing and demonstration
vessels financed under the Project to be built and equipped in accordance with
designs, standards and technical specifications satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Corporation and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Corporation shall not carry out any other tuna-based fisheries project
in the Project Area.
Section 2.07. (a) The Corporation undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Corporation to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Corporation shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents,


﻿5
construction and procurement schedules and work schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.09. The Corporation shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Corporation shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. The Corporation shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion, operate and maintain its works, equipment and
facilities, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial and fisheries
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate proportion to its operations.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Corporation in improving its organizational
structure and accounting system, the Corporation shall employ, within six months
after the date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, management consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association and shall submit to the Association for
its comments, promptly upon their formulation, the plans and measures
recommended by said consultants.


﻿6
Section 3.04. (a) The Corporation shall appoint, upon terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association and not later than three months before the scheduled
completion of the construction of the shore facilities included in the Project, the
following personnel to the staff of its Fisheries Project Department:
(i)          a cold storage manager acceptable to the Association who shall
be a qualified expert in fish processing; and
(ii)         a refrigeration engineer acceptable to the Association who shall
be qualified for, and experienced in, operating and maintaining
refrigeration machinery.
(b)   The Corporation     shall, not later than thiee months before the
scheduled completion of the construction of the shore facilities included in the
Project, appoint, in consultation with the Association and upon terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, two counterparts to the personnel referred
to in Sub-section (a) above.
(c)   The Corporation shall appoint to the staff of its Fisheries Project
Department, not later than six months after the date of this Agreement or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association, a qualified and experienced
accountant acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Corporation shall cause its Fisheries Project Department
to collect, for the purpose of evaluating the Project, monthly information as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and shall furnish to the Association, on
the basis of such information, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each fiscal year, an annual report on Project
evaluation.
Section 3.06. The Corporation shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, promptly as needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the shore facilities included in
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Corporation shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿7
(b)   Without limitation    upon   the generality   of the   foregoing, the
Corporation shall maintain separate records and accounts of the Project and of
the loans made under Part C thereof.
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Corporation
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Corporation shall furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the date of this Agreement,
its audited account for the fiscal years 1971 and 1972.
Section 4.04. The Corporation shall conduct, in consultation with
representatives of fishermen cooperatives, a semi-annual review of fish purchase
prices payable by the corporation to said cooperatives with a view to ensuring
that such purchase prices would (i) enable the fish cooperatives to realize a fair
return; and (ii) provide the Corporation with revenues sufficient to cover the full
cost of handling and export marketing (including operating costs of shore facilities,
depreciation, debt service and taxes) incurred by the Corporation, and to realize
a reasonable profit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Corporation shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Corporation shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Corporation and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Corporation shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,


﻿8
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the Corporation of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Corporation shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Corporation
related to the Project and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Corporation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Corporation of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted


﻿9
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Corporation
Public Corporation For Fish Wealth
Steamer Point
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
FISHERIES
Aden
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Corporation may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of
the Corporation or such other person or persons as the Corporation shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. The Corporation shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Corporation, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Corporation
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M.P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR FISH WEALTH
By /s / A. S. Ashtal
Authorized Representative


﻿*                                     11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works and Equipment for the Shore Facilities
1.    The complete supply, construction and installation of the operating shore
facilities, as described in the tender documents, shall be covered by one contract.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Corporation shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Corporation shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly so inform
the Corporation and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
5.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract.
B.    Contracts for Engines, Fishing Gear, Fishing Vessel Hulls, Office Equipment
and Other Miscellaneous Items
I.    Procurements of those items shall not be subject to international competitive
bidding.


﻿12
2.    The Corporation shall call for quotations for such items from suppliers and
shall send to the Association for its approval details of the proposed procurement
procedures prior to issuing requests for quotations.
3.    Two conformed copies of each contract will be sent to the Association as
soon as signed and before submission of the first withdrawal application thereunder.
4.    Quotations for engines will only be accepted from suppliers undertaking to
maintain an adequate supply of spare parts in the Borrower's territory and providing
one year's warranty on the installed engines.
0


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
General Outline for Project Evaluation
1.   In order to evaluate benefits realized under the Project, the Fisheries Project
Department of the Corporation shall furnish to the Association, not later than
two months after the close of each fiscal year starting with FY 1974, an annual
report analyzing the profitability of the fishing operations of the participating
cooperatives and of the shore facilities as set forth below:
A.    Fishing Operations
(1)   Physical Results
(a)   Number of new fishing vessels
(b)   Number of fishermen employed
(c)   Number of fishing days
(d)   Total catch including data on tonnage and main species
(1I)  Financial Results
(a)   Total revenues
(b)   Detailed operati!g costs
B.    Shore Facilities Operations
(1)   Physical Results
(a)   Number of permanent employees
(b)   Number of man-hours of casual labor
(c)   Total amount of fish purchased and unit prices with an
indication of main species
(d)   Total amount of fish marketed with specification of markets,
unit prices, and main species


﻿14
(II)  Financial Results
(a)   Total revenues with an indication of species
(b)   Detailed operating costs
C.     Any other relevant development related to Project activities.


