Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15653
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
May 20, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
I Nepalese Rupce (NR) = 1(00 Nepalcse Paise
Fiscal Year Averages.
US$ 1.00 (FY84)        =       15.6 NRs
USS 1.0( (FY86)        =       19.9 NRs
US$ 1.()( (FY88)       =       22.8 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY90)        =       28.4 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY92)        =       40.2 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY94)                47.9 NRs
MEASURES
I kilovolt (kV)        =       1,000 volts
I kilowatt (kW)                1.000 watts
I megawatt (MW)        =       1,000 kilowatts
I gigawatt-hour        =       100,000() kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           -       Asian Development Bank
BPC           -       Butwal Power Company
CIDA          -       Canadian International Development Agency
DCA           -       Development Credit Agreement
ED            -       Electricity Department
EdF           -       Electricitc de France International
GLOF          -       Glacicr Lake Outburst Flood
GTZ           -       Geselischaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IERR          -       Internal Economic Rate of Return
HEP           -       Hydroelectric Project
LHMG          -       His Majestv's Govcrnment
KFAED         -       Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW           -       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LDC           -       Load Dispatch Center
LI            -       Lahmever International
LRMC -        -       Long Run Marginal Cost
MH-IDB -      -       Marsvangdi Hydroelectric Development Board
MI-IPP        -       Marsvangdi Hydroelectric Power Plant
MOWR          -       Ministry of Water Resources
NEA           -       Nepal Electricity Authority
NEC           -       Nepal Electricitv Corporation
OD            -       Operational Directive
OMS           -       Operational Manual Statement
PoE           -       Panel of Experts
PSEP          -       Powcr Scctor Efficiency Project
SCADA         -       System Control and Data Acquisition Ssytem
SFD           -       Saudi Fund for Development
SLA           -       Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SMEC          -       Snowv Mountains Engineering Corporation
SPAF          -       Seriously Project Affected Family
TA            -       Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
Ending July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................i
The Project and its Objectives ..............................................i
Project Outcome ................................................i
Sustainability  of Benefits ................................................ii
Findings and Lessons ...............................................                                                                  iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................                                                              I
A. Evaluation of Project objectives ................................................                                                                    1
Project and  Sectoral Context ................................................1
Objective No. 1 - Meeting the Demand ...............................................3
Objective No. 2 - Strengthening the Sector Institutions ................................................                                 4
The Objectives in Perspective ................................................5
B: Achievement of Objectives ................................................5
Objective No. 1 - Meeting Demand .........5.......................................
Objective No. 2 - Strengthening  Sector Institutions ................................................6
Summary  Assessment of Achievement of Objectives ................................................8
C: Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................8
Factors Generally not Under Government Control ...................                                       ............................8
Factors Generally Under Government Control .................................................9
Factors in General Subject to Implementing  Agency Control ................................................9
Cost Changes ................................................9
Implementation Delays ...............................................                                                                  10
D: Sustainability ...............................................                                                                                     10
E: IDA Performance ................................................11
F: Borrower Performance ...............................................                                                                               12
G: Assessment of Outcome ............................................... 12
H: Future Operation ...............................................                                                                                   13
I: Lessons ...............................................                                                                                            13
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi&.hout World Bank authorization.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I - Summary of Assessments
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3 - Project Timetable
Table 4 - Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative
Table 5 - Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6 - Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7 - Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A - Project Costs
Table 8B - Project Financing
Table 9 - Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants
Table I I - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12 - Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13 - Bank Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
Annex I - Project Costs and Completion Dates
Annex 2 - Submission of Audited Accounts
Annex 3 - NEA Receivables from MHG
Annex 4 - Reduction of Systems Losses
Annex 5 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Annex 6 - Project and Actual Values of NEA's Principal
Operational and Financial Indictors
Annex 7 - Aide Memoire
Annex 8 - Operation Plan (Provided by NEA)
Annex 9 - Comments Provided by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
Power Project (Marsyangdi HEP) in Nepal for which Credit 1478-NEP in the amount of SDR
100.6 million was approved on May 22, 1984 and made effective on January 29, 1986.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1994 compared to the original closing date of
June 30, 1990. The Marsyangdi hydroelectric power plant was commissioned in February 1990
and has since been in successful operation. However, the closing date of the Credit was extended
four times for a total of four-and-a-half years in order to allow His Majesty's Government (HMG)
to complete the other components of the Project (loss reduction program, training program,
catchment management study, etc.). Final disbursement took place on June 6, 1995, at which time
SDR25,288,906.56 was canceled. Cofinancing was provided by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW), the Asian Development Bank (ADB - as part of ADB's Sixth Power Project), the Saudi
Fund for Development (SFD), and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. R. A. Ribi (Consultant) and Mr. Argun Ceyhan (Task
Manager) of the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division (SA2EI) of Country Department
II, South Asia Region. It was reviewed by Jean-Francois Bauer, Division Chief, SA2EI and
Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, SA2.
The present ICR is based on material in the project files, interviews with IDA personnel
involved in project implementation and the results of discussions with the Borrower and the
Beneficiary that took place during the November 1995 ICR mission to Nepal and are reflected in
the aide-memoire attached to the present document'. Comments received from KfW have been
incorporated in the ICR.
The operation plan provided by NEA is given in Annex 8.






NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
The Project and its Objectives
i.    The Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power Project (the Project) aimed at helping the new
national electricity utility, Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) to: (i) meet the power demand in the
first half of the 1 990s at least economic cost to the country through the construction of the 69
MW run-of-river Marsyangdi hydro powerplant some 100 km west of Kathmandu; and, (ii)
strengthen the power sector in Nepal, through, inter alia, the implementation of technical
assistance in the areas of finances especially accounting and auditing, plant maintenance, reduction
of system losses, and training. In parallel, to assure NEA's viability His Majesty's Government
(HMG) and NEA were to comply with covenants, in particular on revenues and accounts
receivable. The Borrower of the IDA Credit 1478-NEP of SDR 100.6 million (US$107.0
equivalent at appraisal) was the Kingdom of Nepal. As was the case with earlier projects, the
Marsyangdi hydro power project was executed by the Marsyangdi Hydro Development Board
(MHDB - the Executing Agency). Upon completion the facilities were transferred to the Nepal
Electricity Authority (NEA - the Beneficiary) for operation and maintenance. The debt incurred
in building the plant was also passed to NEA for servicing. The institutional and financial
covenants aimed at developing NEA into a mature Government-owned utility, thus focused on
NEA's performance.
Project Outcome
ii.    NEA, with support from HMG achieved the physical objectives of the project with a high
degree of success. Though the plant and its associated facilities were completed in February
1990, seven months late with respect to the schedule in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) their
cost was some 20% lower than set forth in the appraisal estimate.(para. 13, Table 8A, and Annex
1). Since 1991, the installation's output was consistently in excess of 400 GWh per year, i.e. more
than 10% higher than the expected average generation. The Internal Economic Rate of Return as
recalculated after project completion was about 6.7%, at about the same level with the rate
estimated at project appraisal (5.9%).
iii.   The closing date of the Credit was extended four times for a total of four-and-a-half years
in order to allow His Majesty's Government (HMG) to complete the other components of the
Project (loss reduction program, training program, catchment management study, etc.).
Therefore, the Credit was closed on December 31, 1994 compared to the original closing date of
June 30, 1990.



- ii -
iv.    The implementation of the institutional measures included in the project was less
successful than that of the project's physical component. NEA's institutional strengthening was
slower than expected. The sector finances remained weak throughout project implementation
(para. 17). However, in the context of follow-on projects revenues dramatically increased,
accounting and auditing improved both in quality and timeliness (Annex 2), and accounts
receivable from Government entities fell substantially (Annex 3). Most of the major maintenance
of existing plant which was planned to be carried out during project implementation had to be
delayed until after its completion (para. 18). The loss reduction program failed to achieve the
targets agreed at appraisal and was taken up in follow-on projects (Para. 19 and Annex 4)
Training developed only slowly under the project; however, progress improved substantially in the
early 1 990s, once the main disagreements between Nepal and IDA on the one hand and the
consultants on the other were eliminated (para. 20). The subsequent Third Technical Assistance
(Pancheswar) Project (TA III - Credit 1902-NEP) and the Power Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP
- Credit 2347-NEP) included further institutional technical assistance in line with the previous
programs.
v.    Furthermore, HMG's policy to compensate people to be resettled only in cash impeded the
execution of the limited resettlements required for the Project in accordance with IDA's policies
(para. 31 and Annex 5). Satisfactory rehabilitation of 41 Seriously Project Affected Families
(SPAFs) still remain. This issue was taken up, once again, with IDA's letter dated May 7, 1996,
addressed to HMG.
vi.    The emphasis of the Project clearly was on providing Nepal with a generation facility to
meet its internal power demand. The limited success of the institutional component was due to
HMG's and IDA's optimism about the development and delivery of the sector and NEA. This
was addressed in the context of the succeeding TA III and PSEP projects which started in the
middle and toward the end of Project implementation. Establishment of NEA and relative
improvement in the coordination between the planning, construction and operating functions were
steps in the direction of strengthening the power sector. On balance the outcome of the Project is
rated as satisfactory.
Sustainability of Benefits
vii   The sustainability of the benefits of the plant is rated as "likely", as operation and
maintenance is well planned and properly executed, which is likely to continue provided NEA
does not let the plant deteriorate by substantially reducing maintenance calling for stopping the
units in order to increase in the short term plant availability. The sustainability of the limited
institutional gains achieved under the Project is also likely mainly thanks to the follow-up carried
out under subsequent IDA projects (paras. 28 - 30).



- iii -
Findings and Lessons
viii.  The major findings and lessons are summarized as follow:
a) The successful operation of the Marsyangdi plant suggests that the detailed planning,
execution and monitoring of operation and maintenance carried out in this plant should
be applied in other facilities in NEA's system. This might involve the continuation, for
a limited time, of the services of at least one specialized expatriate.
b) Project outcome confirms the lesson learned in other projects and which already for
several years has been reflected in Bank policy: Projects with large, lumpy physical
components should be submitted to Board consideration only after bidding for the
main components has taken place.
c) The Project, as many before it, illustrates the fact that borrowers and beneficiaries tend
to own physical project components of IDA projects more clearly than institutional
ones, because they usually get involved with the IDA primarily to obtain financing of
capital intensive facilities such as power plants. To improve the chances of success of
institutional project components associated with these projects, IDA should ensure the
borrowers' and beneficiaries' ownership and use its leverage in a delicate and balanced
way to lead in a reasonably short time to ownership by borrowers and beneficiaries of
the objectives and measures considered. The measure of leverage applied in
connection with this and follow-on projects (i.e., TA III and PSEP), was adequate, as
e.g. in mid-1990s, NEA is in a better financial shape than it was in the late 1980s.
d) Establishment of NEA and relative improvement in the coordination between the
planning, construction and operating functions were steps in the direction of
strengthening the power sector. However, the overall performance level is not
sufficient to tackle the challenges Nepal power sector faces in the second half of the
1990s. A new strategy in line with the current power sector policy guidelines of the
Bank Group needs to be developed.
e) IDA created a precedent that when H1MG and NEA were not in compliance with their
commitments, these covenants were shifted to the next projects.
f) In its deliberation on the then proposed Arun III Hydroelectric Project, the Inspection
Panel observed that "the Marsyangdi Project was completed without compliance on
resettlement." IDA should ensure that the necessity to undertake rehabilitation and
restoration of livelihood of the project affected families be accepted as a principle by
HMG.






NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives
Project and Sectoral Context
I.    The two principal sources of energy in Nepal are forests and river systems. The former
are already overused. In contrast, the development of the large hydropower potential is still at an
early stage, though, for a long time it has been one of the main objectives of His Majesty's
Government (HMG). In the short run, it was aimed at meeting internal demand, but, in time, it
was also seen as a basis for future large scale exports providing revenues in foreign currency. In
the long run it may also contribute to stop forest depletion. The Marsyangdi hydroelectric
project, which formed the core of the IDA operation (the Project) discussed here was well in line
with the first part of this strategy, as it aimed at meeting internal demand. IDA's parallel Karnali
Preparation Project (Credit 1452-NEP) was oriented towards developing Nepal's power export
capability.
2.    At the time of Project preparation, in the early 1980s, the sector was completing the 60
MW Kulekhani hydroplant (supported by Credit 600-NEP), which suffered massive time and cost
overruns (some two years and about 80% in current terms, respectively). The new facility
brought the total capacity installed for public supply in the country to 133 MW (111 MW hydro
and 22 MW diesel) and ended the load shedding that had hampered sector operations for several
years. The corresponding total available energy reached 349 GWh including 62 GWh of net
imports from India and an estimated 8 GWh generated by captive plant. This represented an
exceedingly low 23 kWh per capita, which, at the time, was lower than the corresponding figure
for Bangladesh (26 kWh) and very much less than that for India (140 kWh).
3.    IDA's power sector program in Nepal, included the 1983 Second Technical Assistance
Project supported by Credit 1379-NEP which helped HMG identify and prepare high priority
projects in the sector for international financing. Investigations of various potential hydroelectric
sites on the Marsyangdi River were begun in early 1960s. The site was first identified by a team
of Chinese engineers in 1966 who proposed a run-of-river project with a power station of about
40 MW capacity. High dam alternatives too were investigated in several additional studies. In
1979, Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW), both of Germany provided funds for a feasibility study and detailed engineering,
respectively, by a consortium formed by Lahmeyer lnternational (LI), also of Germany, and
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC) of Australia. In 1980, the Water and
Energy Commission of the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) compared 13 development



programs to meet load demands up to FY91. These programs included 6 possible hydro projects
and also various thermal (coal, gas, diesel) options. Based on this economic comparison, the
Marsyangdi run-of-river project with an installed capacity of 69 MW was selected as the next
project. The same year, IDA started the preparation of the Project by sending its first pre-
appraisal mission. It took three further preparation and pre-appraisal missions and nearly three
years to bring the Project to a level permitting IDA to appraise it, and a further fifteen months to
make it adequate for Board presentation, in May 1984. The main reason for this lengthy
procedure was that IDA wanted to avoid cost and time overruns of the type experienced in the
context of the Kulekhani project. Therefore, it called for further investigations which Nepal
carried out under the guidance of a Panel of Experts (PoE). How justified this cautious approach
was is demonstrated by the fact that between 1980 and 1983 the estimated project costs increased
from US$ 150 million (only plant) to US$ 338 million (including technical assistance - TA -).
These anticipated high costs, in turn, called for the identification of additional funds from both
internal and external sources. Providing reasonable assurances for the availability of these
resources contributed to slow credit processing. As was the case with earlier projects,' IDA
agreed to project implementation by a separate entity, the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Development
Board (MBDB) established in 1981, which, after project completion and transfer of the plant to
NEA's assets was to be dissolved.
4.    At the time, a substantial number of entities were involved in power sector operations, the
main utility being Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC). The other entities were the Electricity
Department of the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR), Eastern Electricity Corporation
(merged with NEC in 1982), Butwal Power Company (BPC), and several development boards,
including those for the Kulekhani I and Marsyangdi hydroelectric projects, transmission line
projects and small hydro projects.
5.    The ED was a department within the MOWR. It was responsible for planning, designing
and constructing new projects which, after commissioning, were handed over for operation to
NEC. However, projects in the Mid- and Far-Western Regions were retained and operated by the
Department. The Department was headed by a Chief Engineer appointed by a Cabinet Committee
of HMG; he was directly accountable to the Secretary of the MOWR. In end- 1982, there were
some 900 staff, including 200 engineers of which about 150 were on secondment to other
organizations in the power sector. All of the revenues of the ED were transferred to the Ministry
of Finance, while funds for capital and operating expenditures were provided through the annual
budget.
6.    NEC was established in 1962 under the Nepal Electricity Corporation Act of the same
year, to enable the management of the important power system in northern part of the Central
Region to be freed form the constraints of government bureaucracy. Later, NEC also took over
the operations in the Eastern and Near-Western Regions and in the remaining parts of the Central
Region. In 1982, NEC had a staff of about 3,200 including about 100 engineers. It was the
largest entity in the power sector, responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity in the said regions, transferred to its ownership by the ED and the development boards.
1     The Kulekhani hydroelectric project was executed by the Kulekhani Hydroelectric Development Board.



- 3 -
It financed, designed and constructed modest reinforcements to its distribution network and
extended supplies to new customers. It was also responsible for billing and collection of revenue.
NEC had little contact with the ED or the development boards during planning, design and
construction of new works even though the facilities were subsequently transferred to it for
operation and maintenance.
7.    The development boards were established under the Development Boards Act to execute
large construction projects, which upon commissioning were handed over to other entities for
operation and maintenance. Board Members, in the case of the Kulekhani I and the proposed
Marsyangdi projects, included the Minister of Water Resources as Chairman, and civil servants
from various Ministries, including the Secretary of MOWR and the Chief Engineer, ED. The
executive head of each Board was the Project Manager who usually was a senior engineer
seconded from the ED. He was paid by the Board, was accountable to the Board and was also a
member and Secretary of the Board. The Boards were staffed by engineers on secondment from
the ED and by others specially selected. A few engineers were attached to the staff of the
consultants and contractors for the projects. Considering the early stage of power development in
Nepal and the lack of experience of the Nepalese with large projects, the Boards relied heavily on
consultants to supervise the execution of the projects.
8.    During the preparation and appraisal of the Project, it was clear from experience that this
multiplicity of bodies to operate the Nepal electricity system contributed to a sector performance
which was not satisfactory. HMG recognized that in order to meet the management and technical
tasks associated with the planned expansion and operation of the system, the power sector's
institutional structure needed streamlining. Consultants financed by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) developed the concept for a new sector organization around an autonomous corporation,
the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA), which would become responsible for the power sector on
a national basis except for: (i) large complex projects involving neighboring countries; and (ii)
small projects carried out under the jurisdiction of panchayats (districts). Conditions under ADB's
fourth and fifth power projects in the country called for establishing NEA by April 1985 along the
lines established in the above studies. IDA integrated the same condition in the agreements
concerning the Project.
9.    The Project's broad objectives were (SAR, para. 3.04): (i) to meet demand in Nepal up to
FY93 and (ii) to strengthen the power sector.
Objective No. I -- Meeting the Demand - The Marsyangdi Project
10.   This objective was to be pursued by constructing the Marsyangdi hydroelectric project, a
run-of-river plant 100 km west of Kathmandu, with an installed capacity of 3 x 23 MW and an
expected average annual output of 464 GWh (209 GWh firm, reflecting the fact that, on average,
the capacity permanently available over the dry season does not exceed 25 MW). This plant had
been identified as the next step in Nepal's least cost power generation development program. It
was to be completed by August 1989 at a cost of US$ 294 million, i.e. at a very high US$ 4,260
per kW installed for the plant alone. Taking into account this large expenditure for additional
capacity, the Project also aimed at reducing system losses (para. 16).



- 4 -
Objective No. 2- Strengthening the Sector Institutions
11.   The institution building component of the Project included measures in five main areas: (i)
sector restructuring, (ii) finances, (iii) plant maintenance, (iv) the already mentioned reduction of
system losses, and (v) training.
12.         NEA was created in August 1985, as the principal instrument of the sector
restructuring, through the amalgamation of a number of public sector organizations, principally
NEC, ED and the Small Hydro Development Board. The NEA Act of 1985 established NEA as a
commercial entity with responsibilities for generation, transmission and distribution throughout
Nepal. However, the Act interfered with NEA's capacity to realize commercial objective through
limits on the Authority's autonomy, as well as in the lack of mechanisms for accountability. The
1988 Power Sector Review identified a number of impediments to NEA's efficient operation.
With IDA assistance (Cr. 1902-NEP), NEA followed up on the Review's recommendations by
entering into a twinning arrangement with a mature utility, Electricite de France International
(EdF), in October 1989. The agreement provided for expertise in all aspects of modem power
utility practices, with special emphasis on assisting NEA to develop a corporate plan and improve
operations management. NEA and EdF developed a performance improvement plan which was
incorporated into a Performance Agreement (PA) between the Government and NEA. The PA
was signed by HMG and NEA in October 1992, as a condition of effectiveness of Cr. 2347-NEP.
The NEA Act was amended in 1992 to address all the shortcoming identified by then, with the
objective of establishing an institutional framework which would enable NEA to operate as a
commercial entity.
13.   Although NEA did not deliver all the expectations by IDA and ADB (the most important
shortcoming being that HMG did not grant to NEA the necessary autonomy), it nevertheless
consolidated coordination between planning, construction and operating functions, thereby
strengthening the sector's overall performance. However, the overall performance level is not
sufficient to tackle the challenges Nepal power sector faces in the second half of 1990s.
Therefore, a new strategy in line with the current power sector policy guidelines of the Bank
Group needs to be developed.
14.   The IDA operation also aimed at strengthening the sector finances by covenanting (i) a
reduction of the arrears of Government entities with NEC (and - once established - NEA) to two
months' billings. By FY83, these had reached nearly two years' billings. Under previous credits,
NEC was to generate intemally sufficient funds to produce, from FY83 on, a 6% return on net
fixed historically valued assets. To achieve this, tariffs would have had to increase by 110% in
this same FY83. In connection with the preparation of the Project, Government and IDA
acknowledging the political difficulties to implement such a steep adjustment, agreed on a two
tranche approach with 65% steps in December 1982 and December 1983, respectively. Actually,
a 58% increase (later reduced to 56%) took place in May 1983, and the second step, a 65%
adjustment, became a condition of the new credit.
15.   Until the commissioning of the Kulekhani plant in 1982, the shortage of available capacity
had induced NEC to postpone major repair and maintenance of its generating plant, which



therefore was deteriorating fast. To reverse this trend, the sector needed a substantial
rehabilitation program, which, at the same time, would lay the ground for systematic maintenance
in the future. The Project came to include the preparation and initial implementation of such a
program.
16.   A study carried out with ADB financing showed that, in spite of earlier efforts to reduce
system losses, in FY83, these were still in excess of 30% of energy sent out (Annex 4) and
especially high in the central sub-system. In the early 1980s, an ambitious program supported by
a Japanese grant and an ADB loan was aiming at developing Nepal's distribution system especially
in the central and eastern regions. These measures were essentially helping reduce technical
losses but did not directly address the energy theft issue. Nevertheless, the corresponding system
improvements were expected to lead to a reduction of the losses by some 6 percentage points by
FY86 and in excess of 10 percentage points by FY91. However, in 1983, it was already evident
that the sector would not meet these goals. Therefore, the Project also came to include measures
leading to reductions in both technical and non-technical losses.
17.   In the early 1980s, there was no formalized training in the sector. Therefore, the Project
covered the establishment of an adequate training function, in particular the provision of (i) a
facility for practical training and (ii) specific training in connection with the consulting engineers'
and the contractors' work, in particular in assessing feasibility studies of hydro projects, designing
hydraulic structures, managing construction, erecting and installing equipment, and operating
hydroplants.
The Objectives in Perspective
18.   The objectives were well in line with IDA's general policies for the power sector
(OMS 2.25 and 3.72). They also fitted into the agreed broad goals for the country. However, as
discussed in paras. 16 to 21 below, the detailed sub-objectives for the sector's institutional
development were unrealistic, in particular with respect to the timeframe foreseen for achieving
them, the more so as their ownership by the Nepalese authorities was, in part, only at the
intellectual level and turned out weak whenever concrete action was required (e.g. tariff
adjustments and loss reduction program).
B. Achievement of Objectives
Objective No. I - Meeting the Demand
19.   The Marsyangdi plant was commissioned in 02/90, seven months late with respect to the
timetable set forth in the SAR, but -- due to the long preparation time --, much later than planned
in the early 1 980s. Therefore, in the late 1 980s, there were limitations of supply, as demand had
grown about as anticipated at appraisal. The shortfall was the more severe, as losses did not
lessen and NEA felt unable to carry out the rehabilitation of its existing plant. The cost of the
Marsyangdi plant and associated transmission facilities was US$ 244 million, which, though less
than 80% of the appraisal estimate, still corresponds to a high 3,600 USS per kW. (Annex 1)



20.    For a time, large claims from the civil works contractor carrying out the main conveyor
tunnel represented a major problem in particular after the contractor had filed two cases for
arbitration. However, assisted by a claims expert, the PoE, and the engineering consultants, the
executing agency (MHDB) was able to reach an out-of-court settlement by agreeing to pay US$
3.5 million, a small fraction of the original amount claimed. Thus, the Project substantially
achieved its objective of contributing in a major way to the sector's ability to meet domestic
demand. It achieved this, to a large extent, because the lessons learned in the context of the
disappointing outcome of the Kulekhani project were applied. However, as discussed below
(para. 25), until the mid-i 990s, the loss reduction program failed to contribute in a substantial
way to this same objective. The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) calculated in the same
way as in the SAR came out at some 6.7% which, though low, is at about the same level with the
appraisal estimate (5.9%). 2 3
Objective No. 2 -- Strengthening the Sector Institutions
21.    Most institutional measures started late, developed slowly over the second half of the
1980s and somewhat faster in the early 1990s. Some of these (e.g. those concerning maintenance
and training) proved to lack specificity in order to reach the objectives adopted. They had to be
further defined and, in part, included in a modified form in follow-on projects especially the 1988
Third Technical Assistance Project (TA III) supported by Credit 1 902-NEP and the 1992 Power
Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP) supported by Credit 2347-NEP. The origin of these
shortcomings of the Project was, on HMG's and the sector's side, deficient implementation
capability and weak ownership of several of the politically unsavory actions envisaged, and on
IDA's side, an overly optimistic view of the sector's ability to strengthen its institutional capability.
Factors that should have induced IDA to an even more cautious approach were: (i) the fact that,
at Project start, the sector was to begin working under a new setup, which, even in a much further
developed environment, invariably involves a slowdown of many activities; (ii) cumulating the
construction of the largest power plant in the country with a host of institutional measures, as
justified as they were, put an exceedingly heavy burden on sector management which was weak to
start with; (iii) the experience gathered during the long preparation time should have made clear
that whereas HMG and the sector strongly owned the physical measures (i.e. essentially plant
construction), their ownership of the institutional measures was much weaker.
2      In the SAR the IERR was computed using the retail electricity tariffs as a proxy for the benefits of the
Project. The tariffs in effect at appraisal were used for the base case. Tariff levels estimated based on
adjustments agreed under the Project were used in a sensitivity run. The IERR for the base case and
sensitivity run were computed as 3.9% and 5.9% respectively. It was mentioned in the SAR, that the true
IERR would be significantly higher if all the benefits, such as willingness to pay off all types of
consumers, increased system reliability, etc. could be quantified. No sufficient base data was available for
calculating the above benefits. In the ICR, the tariffs in effect since the commissioning of the project were
used.
3      After commissioning of the Marsyangdi plant, IDA helped the sector bv financing part of the
improvement of the Marsyangdi-Mugling road, the main access to the plant, from funds remaining at the
time in Credit 1478-NEP.



- 7 -
22.   The sector started operating under the new organizational setup at the beginning of FY86,
i.e. at about the time agreed. But NEA as its centerpiece did not develop as hoped for (paras. 17
to 20).
23.   The sector finances remained weak throughout project implementation. NEA was never
able to meet the revenues covenant agreed with IDA and, from FY89 to FY93, the operating
income was negative. These shortfalls were the consequence of inadequate tariff adjustments and
cost containment. A 35% tariff increase in FY 85 and one of 22% in FY86 allowed the signing
of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) 17 months after the Board had approved the
Project. An 18% adjustment in FY88 and one of 61% in FY 92 in connection with the processing
of the PSEP /4 were the only steps taken until the most recent change in HMG's approach, related
to the 1992 Performance Agreement between HMG and NEA on the one hand, and the
preparation of the Arun III project, on the other. The FY88 and 92 increases were what HMG
felt in a position to concede when much larger boosts would have been needed to meet the
covenant in the subsequent year. During the period FY86-94 cash operating costs which are
essentially those that NEA can to a reasonable degree control (except for fuel which depends on
HMG decisions) have not decreased in constant terms and related to the kWh sold, although sales
doubled over the same period. Government's accounts receivable improved only in the 1990s,
when, however, they still were substantially in excess of the three months' billings covenanted in
connection with the PSEP (Annex 3). During the May 1988 Paris Aid Group Meeting, donors
endorsed the Government's plan for improving the power sector's performance in general and
NEA's financial performance in particular. This has formed a basis for the revenue covenants of
the PSEP. It is important to note that early in the Project, monitoring of the returns and the
receivables was unreliable because of the weakness of NEA's accounting. But IDA's persistent
efforts supported by those of other financiers, in particular ADB, contributed in a major way to
improve the accounting in general to a level that makes recent results reasonably credible. In
particular, after NEA had started operations with an opening balance sheet including a highly
suspect valuation of the assets, it had consultants properly revalue these, which, in FY90, led to a
300% increase in the valuation of fixed assets and to the installation of a method for their future
periodic revaluation. At IDA's insistence during the implementation of the Project, NEA's debt
obligations to the Government was established and finalization of all subsidiary loan agreements
(SLAs - for all donor funded projects) was initiated. In absence of SLAs, NEA's debt service
liability to HMG could not be correctly established. This was thus rectified. A further result of
the above efforts was that, in FY93, NEA was able to provide audited accounts of significantly
improved quality within the time frame agreed with IDA (Annex 2), but still with numerous
qualifications by the auditors.
24.   Financial constraints and the lack of preparation made it impossible for the sector to avail
itself of the opportunity created by the commissioning of Kulekhani to start carrying out
postponed maintenance at the older plants. This, together with demand growth about in the order
of magnitude expected at project appraisal soon led to severe capacity constraints which further
4     In connection with the PSEP two revenue covenants were formulated, one calling ftom FY96 on for a
minimum rate of return and the other establishing a minimum contribution from internal cash generation
to the local cost of NEA's investment program.



- 8 -
postponed the implementation of the rehabilitation program whose preparation and
implementation was included in the Project. In 1992, with Marsyangdi in operation, NEA carried
out the refurbishing of Kulekhani which, in the meantime, had also deteriorated. Further work was
included in the PSEP.
25.   For many of the reasons set forth in para. 15 above, the losses reduction program failed to
achieve the targets envisaged at appraisal. By FY93, when losses should have been below 20% of
energy sent out, they were still about 25%. Most recently, in connection with the preparation of
the follow-on project, NEA and IDA envisaged on a new target of 20% by FY 2000 (Annex 4)
26.   Training suffered under similar shortcomings. In the early 1980s, the training needs had
been defined on the basis of a study financed by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA). But the training coordinator appointed in 1984 resigned and follow-up action stalled. In
1987, NEA appointed Electricite de France (EdF) as training consultants. But it took until 1989
to bring the program into full gear in the context of the twinning arrangement between NEA and
EdF supported under IDA's TA III project. Subsequently, the program was repeatedly hampered
by the lack of local funds and slow procurement of training equipment.
Summary Assessment of Achievement of Objectives
27.   The Project did not include macroeconomic policy, poverty reduction and gender
concerns objectives. Achievement of financial objectives for NEA and sector policy and public
sector management objectives was "partial" (paras 21-26). The physical objectives were achieved
"substantially" with the satisfactory completion of the Marsyangdi hydropower project. The
hydro project was constructed in accordance with IDA's environmental guidelines in effect at
approval. However, during the implementation of the Project, it was determined that there was
need to study further and then implement a management plan for the Marsyangdi catchment. This
was included in Cr. 2347-NEP. Over the last ten years a glacier lake has developed upstream of
the Marsyangdi dam and the risk of a major glacier lake outburst flood (GLOF) has become a
potential threat (Para.36). Therefore achievement of environmental objectives is assessed as
"negligible". Completion of a satisfactory rehabilitation of the Seriously Project Affected Families
(SPAFs) is still outstanding. Achievement of other social objectives is assessed as "negligible".
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Generally not Under Government Control
28.   Start of project implementation was substantially postponed by the long preparation time,
which, however, was unavoidable in view of (i) the complexity of the physical part of the project
to be executed by a sector that was weak to start with and was to be reorganized immediately
after project start, (ii) the need to heed the lessons learned in connection with the earlier
Kulekhani project, (iii) the desirability for IDA to avail itself of the leverage provided by the
sector's eagerness to secure substantial financing and its associated improved amenability to take
substantial and difficult steps towards a sound financial development, and (iv) the fact that project
cost estimates increased from US$ 150 million in 1980 to over US$ 300 million in 1982-83,



-9-
which called for the mobilization of ever more co-financing, which, in turn made project setup
more complicated.
29.   From 1989 on, the trade and transit controversy with India seriously affected Nepal's
economy. However, it did not lead to major delays in the physical implementation, because
HMG, giving Marsyangdi high priority, went so far as to have fuel flown from Bangladesh to the
work site, of course, at the corresponding high cost.
30.   The good performance of the engineering consultants and the valuable advice of the PoE
was a major factor in the relatively smooth construction implementation. The PoE and the claims
advisor were also very helpful in resolving the impasse that the large claims submitted by the
tunneling contractor could have created (para. 20).
Factors Generally Under Government Control
31.   The main such factor was HMG's unwillingness to provide NEA the degree of autonomy
that would have been a necessary (but not sufficient) condition to allow the utility to develop into
an efficient company. Especially, H-MG did not allow NEA to adjust adequately its tariffs, which
made NEA even further dependent upon government financial support. This, in turn, gave HMG
apparent justification for continued interference. The lack of local funds also contributed to the
delays suffered in the loss reduction, training, and plant maintenance/rehabilitation programs.
Further, HMG's policy of compensating resettled people only in cash on the basis of their land's
market value, impeded the execution of the limited resettlements required for the Project in
accordance with IDA's more recent policies (Annex 5). Satisfactory rehabilitation of 41 Seriously
Project Affected Families (SPAFs) still remain. This issue was taken up, once again, with IDA's
letter dated May 7, 1996, addressed to H1MG.
Factors in General Subject to Implementing Agency Control
32.   NEA's managerial and operational weakness was the main factor (closely tied to the
previously mentioned ones) impeding a satisfactory institutional development of the utility. It was
re-enforced by the fact that, at the early implementation phase, the sector had to operate in a new
setup.
Cost changes
33.   The power plant with the associated transmission facilities came to cost some US$ 244
million, i.e. in current terms some 20% less than estimated at appraisal. In constant terms the cost
savings were about 18 %. Whereas the equipment cost was substantially higher than anticipated,
civil works costs came out more than 30% less than estimated. This outcome is certainly less
disappointing than a cost overrun; but it still is not fully satisfactory, as (i) the deviation from the
estimates was large, and, (ii) the large effort by HMG, NEA, IDA and the cofinanciers for the
mobilization of additional funding which was necessary because of the high overall estimate might
have been avoided if a better estimate had been available. The latter could have been achieved by



- 10-
waiting with Board submission until after bids for the main contracts were opened. Since then,
this procedure has become standard for this type of Bank Group projects.
Implementation delays
34.   The power plant was commissioned seven months late with respect to the schedule set
forth in the SAR. The delay was largely incurred at the start when (i) processing of the project
was delayed (18 months between appraisal and Board presentation and 16 months between Board
approval and credit document signature), mostly related to slow compliance by HMG with agreed
measures especially in the field of tariffs, (ii) the late mobilization of the tunnel contractor in
charge of the main tunnel which was on the critical path of the project. Two years after its start,
the project was well over a year late, but the engineering consultants, the PoE, and the contractor
were able to devise and implement measures which allowed to make up for part of the delay.
D. Sustainability
35.   The operation plan (Attachment 2) reflecting the presently implemented operational
procedures provides an adequate basis for the sustainability of the benefits to be reaped from the
Marsyangdi plant. However, in the wake of IDA's decision not to proceed with plans to support
the construction of the Arun III Hydroelectric Project, substantial risks persist which could lead to
NEA's inability to sustain these benefits. Major delays in the construction of the next power plant
and NEA's failure to improve its operational capability could lead NEA to assign low priority to
maintenance work in its plants, as it happened once again in the early 1990s. HMG and NEA are
following a two-track approach for the construction of the next generation projects. While they
continue their dialogue with ADB and bilateral donors for the execution of hydro power projects
by NEA, they take actions to induce private investors to Nepal power sector. HMG's dialogue
with IDA is currently focused on the establishment of a Power Development Fund which could
catalyze investments in generation, transmission and distribution, by private developers and public
entities, under the condition that the latter meet PDF's creditworthiness criteria.
36.   Another risk to the sustainability of benefits from the Project is the possibility that
increased sedimentation at the Marsyangdi hydropower station intake. In this regard, IDA and
MHDB (the Executing Agency) commissioned, in 1988, a catchment management plan study for
the watershed of the Marsyangdi project. The plan was revised and updated during the appraisal
of PSEP, taking into account watershed management experience in other areas in Nepal, local
natural resource management traditions and the socio-economic dynamics of the region. A pilot
project, funded by GTZ of Germany is being implemented under PSEP5. About 80 km upstream
from the weir, a glacier lake (Thulagi lake) has developed over the last 10 years. As a result, the
risk of a major glacier lake outburst flood (GLOF) became a potential threat to the power plant.
Even though a GLOF may not have a direct impact on the weir, serious operational problems may
result from such an event, owing to the increased bed load arriving at the intake over many
The pilot project attempts to incorporate land management practices that improve and lead to a greater
sustainable productivity, derived from successful innovations in other ongoing projects or from local
practices that are encouraged. The strategy is to develop approaches for improved land management in
the village by the villagers.



- 11 -
months after the overflow. Therefore, monitoring of the development of the lake, and, if
necessary and feasible, appropriate measures to lower the water level should be given due
consideration. KfW, upon request of the German Government, will commission a study on this
issue, which will be financed under the existing Studies and Expert Fund. In addition, KfW is
initiating a feasibility study on a new Load Dispatch Center (LDC) at Kathmandu which shall be
equipped with system control and data acquisition (SCADA) system. The LDC should also
contribute to an improved capacity utilization of the power generated at Marsyangdi. In view of
the actions taken, the ICR considers that sustainability of the plant benefits as 'likely"
37.   As discussed earlier, the institutional components of the project failed to achieve their
objectives in the framework of the Project itself, but most were taken up, usually in a more
specific and promising form, in the context of follow-on projects. In this framework, they have
good prospects to be completed with a reasonable measure of success, which should make the
sustainability of the limited institutional gains achieved under the Project likely, too.
E. IDA Performance
38.   Despite the urgency of constructing a new generating facility, IDA steadfastly linked the
processing of the operation to the development of a technically sound project that could be
executed at a reasonably firm price. It also did not proceed with the signing of the DCA before
the Borrower substantially complied with financial conditions, in particular tariff increases, agreed
earlier. Indeed, insisting on the fulfillment of these conditions before Board presentation might
have been preferable, as this would not have significantly further postponed the start of large scale
project implementation but it would have avoided having an approved operation in abeyance for
16 months. In addition, if IDA had waited with Board presentation until after the bids for the civil
works and equipment were opened, it would have avoided the large effort made by HMG, NEA,
the cofinanciers and IDA itself to mobilize additional funding. Despite these shortcomings, IDA's
performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the physical component of
the Project is assessed as '"atisfactory"
39.   As seen from Part II - Table 10, HMG and NEA did not comply with some of their
commitments under the Project, in particular with those commitments relating to institution
building in the power sector6 and land acquisition and resettlement (Annex 5). The institutional
component of the project suffered inter alia: (i) from IDA working on the basis of an optimistic
view of the speed at which the sector and in particular NEA could develop; and, (ii) from an
overrating of the sector's capability to implement the measures envisaged on the basis of a TA
program that was only defined in its outline. However, as the sector was being moved toward a
new structure, expected to be more rational and efficient, IDA's above optimism should not be
held against IDA's performance in the identification/ preparation and appraisal stages of the
Project. Therefore, IDA's performance in these stages are rated as satisfactory. Establishment of
NEA and relative improvement in the coordination between the planning, construction and
operating functions were steps in the direction of strengthening the power sector.
6     Reorganization of the sector (paras. 21 and 22), financial strengthening (paras. 23 and 24; and, Annexes 2
and 3), reduction of system losses (para. 25; and Annex 4), and training (para. 26).



- 12 -
40.   IDA became quickly aware of this deficiency and, together with ADB, sponsored the 1987
Power Subsector Review which, in turn, provided a basis for IDA's TA III project. This latter
operation took up in detail the loose ends of the institutional component envisaged under the
Project. It was completed, and the supporting credit closed in 1994. However, this created a
precedent that when HMG and NEA were not in compliance of their commitments, IDA shifted
the covenants to the next project and did not use its legal remedies available under the Project.
The process continued under PSEP and during appraisal and negotiations of the Arun III
Hydroelectric Project (HEP)7. With regard to land acquisition and resettlement, the Inspection
Panel of IBRD and IDA, in its deliberations on the then proposed Arun III HEP reviewed HMG,
NEA and IDA's actions on this matter and observed that 'the Marsyangdi project was completed
without compliance on resettlement"8. Although IDA's performance in supervising the
implementation of the physical component was satisfactory, in view of the shortcomings in the
institutional component and the observation of the Inspection Panel, on balance, IDA's
performance during the supervision of the overall Project cannot be judged satisfactory.
F. Borrower Performance
41.   In the context of preparation and implementation of the physical component of the
Project, HMG (the Borrower) and MHDB (the implementing agency) strongly assisted by IDA,
ADB, KfW, the PoE, and the engineering consultants, performed satisfactorily. However, in
1984/85, H1MG did not feel in a position to adjust tariffs as agreed and, thus delayed to an extent
Project implementation. Since its completion by MHDB and transfer to NEA, the hydro power
project has been operated and maintained satisfactorily. However, NEA is being assisted by an
engineer from LI whose service is funded under a KfW grant.
42.   In carrying out the institution building component of the Project, both HMG and NEA
performed poorly, in part because of a lack of capability, but also to an extent for their lack of
ownership of the institutional measures agreed with IDA. This less than satisfactory performance
is also evident from the Borrower's failure to comply with a number of legal covenants (Table 10).
On August 1, 1995, IDA informed HMG of its decision not to proceed with plans to support the Arun III
Hydroelectric Project.
8     Memorandum to the President of IDA, dated June 21, 1995, from the Inspection Panel - Annex I to the
said Memorandum; paras. I to 8.



- 13 -
G. Assessment of Outcome
43.   The emphasis of the Project clearly was on providing Nepal with a generation facility to
meet its internal power demand. The limited success of the institutional component was due to
HMG's and IDA's optimism about the development and delivery of the sector and NEA. This
was addressed in the context of the succeeding TA III and PSEP projects which started in the
middle and toward the end of Project implementation. Establishment of NEA and relative
improvement in the coordination between the planning, construction and operating functions were
steps in the direction of strengthening the power sector. On balance the outcome of the Project is
rated as satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
44.   NEA's operation plan for Marsyangdi is based on a computerized system of planning,
implementing, and monitoring plant operation and maintenance, that covers, besides the broad
outlines of these aspects several hundred individual activities defined in detail. The ICR mission
was able to confirm that the system (that, inter alia, includes performance related incentives for
the plant's personnel) is actually implemented and that personnel seems to identify with it.
I. Lessons
45.   The successful operation of the Marsyangdi plant suggests that the detailed planning,
execution and monitoring of operation and maintenance carried out in this plant should be applied
in other facilities in NEA's system. This might involve the continuation, for a limited time, of the
services of at least one specialized expatriate.
46.   Project outcome confirms the lesson learned in other projects and which already for
several years has been reflected in Bank policy: Projects with large, lumpy physical components
should be submitted to Board consideration only after bidding for the main components has taken
place.
47.   The Project, as many before it, illustrates the fact that borrowers and beneficiaries tend to
own physical project components of IDA projects more clearly than institutional ones, because
they usually get involved with the IDA primarily to obtain financing of capital intensive facilities
such as power plants. To improve the chances of success of institutional project components
associated with these projects, IDA should ensure the borrowers' and beneficiaries' ownership
and use its leverage in a delicate and balanced way to lead in a reasonably short time to ownership
by borrowers and beneficiaries of the objectives and measures considered. The measure of
leverage applied in connection with this and follow-on projects (i.e., TA III and PSEP), was
adequate, as e.g. in mid-1990s, NEA is in a better financial shape than it was in the late 1980s
Establishment of NEA and relative improvement in the coordination between the planning,
construction and operating functions were steps in the direction of strengthening the power
sector. However, the overall performance level is not sufficient to tackle the challenges Nepal



- 14 -
power sector faces in the second half of the 1990s. A new strategy in line with the current power
sector policy guidelines of the Bank Group needs to be developed.
48.   IDA created a precedent that when HMG and NEA were not in compliance with their
commitments, these covenants were shifted to the next projects.
49.   In its deliberation on the then proposed Arun III Hydroelectric Project, the Inspection
Panel observed that "the Marsyangdi Project was completed without compliance on resettlement."
IDA should ensure that the necessity to undertake rehabilitation and restoration of livelihood of
the project affected families be accepted as a principle by HMG.



- 15 -
1: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of Ob*ectives 1/    Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                           
Sector policies                                                    0                 
Financial objectives                             *                                 O
Physical objectives              *
Poverty reduction                                                  0 
Gender concerns                                   
Other social objectives          0                0                                  E l
Environmental objectives                         **
Public sector management                         *                                 
B.   Project sustainabilitv           Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
U                         0                          0
C.   Bank Performance                 Highly                  Satisfactory               Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                   a                         o  2/                     0
Preparation assistance           a                          *  2/                    0
Appraisal                        a                          *  2/                    0
Supervision                      a                          O3/
D.   Borrower performance             Highly                  Satisfactorv               Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                      a                          U                         0
Implementation                   O0                                                   U
Covenant compliance                                         0 
Operation (if applicable)        O                          *                         0
D.   Assessment of Outcome            Highly        Satisfactory     Unsatisfactorv       Highlv
satisfactory                                       unsatisfactory
                *4/              0                  0
1/     Para. 27.
2/     Paras. 38 and 39.
3/     Para. 40.
4/     Para. 43.



- 16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title and Nr.              Purpose              Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. Cr. 600-NEP and 600-1 -NEP:    Support construction of         1975     Completed in
Kulekhani Hydroelectric          next generation plant on                 1982; audited by
least cost sequence.                    OED
2. Cr. 1379-NEP                    Assistance to HMG in           1983     Completed in
Technical Assistance LI/I       identifying and preparing                1990; PCR
high priority projects                  processed
suitable for IDA or other
external financing
3. Cr. 1452-NEP:                   Feasibility study of Karnali   1984     Completed in
Karnali Preparation             (Chisapani) Multi-purpose                1990; PCR
Project with an ultimate                processed
capacity in excess of 10,000
MW
Following Operations
1. Cr. 1902-NEP:                  Support preparatory work        1988     Completed in
Third Technical Assistance      for further development of               1994; ICR in
(Pancheswar)                     least cost supply for                    preparation
domestic needs and export.
2. Cr. 2029-NEP:                   Preparatory work for Arun      1989     Canceled in
Arun III Access Road            III hydro project.                       1995; ICR
under
preparation
3. Cr. 2347-NEP:                   Improving NEA's technical      1992     Under
Power Sector Efficiency         and operational efficiency,              implementation
upgrading existing
generating plant.
There was an earlier project called "Technical Assistance Project" and supported by Credit 659-NEP of
US$ equiv. 9.0 million approved in 1976. which ultimately did not include measures in the power sector.



- 17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned              Actual Date
Identification                                                  06/79
Preparation                                                  07/79-10/82
Appraisal                              01/82                    11/82
Negotiations                           09/82                    04/84
Board presentation                     12/82                    05/84
Signing                                01/83                    09/85
Effectiveness                          12/85                    01/86
Project completion /I                  07/89                    01/90
Credit closing                         06/90                    12/94
/1 Marsyangdi plant
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative
(Estimated and Actual)
IDA FY               85     86    87      88    89       90      91      92      93       94      95
Est.(million US$)   14.7  40.7  66.7   85.9  96.1   107.0   107.0   107.0   107.0   107.0   107.0
Act.(million US$)    0.0    6.6   13.5   53.4  65.6   70.2    75.3    85.4    90.9    96.9    98.5
Act. in%ofEst.       0%    16%   20%   41%    68%    66%        70%    80%      85%      91%     92%
Act.(rnillionSDR)    0.0    5.8   11.2  27.6   51.2   51.8    58.4   65.9    69.9    74.1    75.2
Canceled (million          23.0
SDR)
Date of Final Disbursement:       June 6, 1995



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable as the Project predates the standard requirement for key indicators.
However, see Annex 6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
NEA's operation plan for Marsyangdi (presently generating about 50% of the
energy sent out by NEA) aims at optimally using the water available under the
restrictions imposed by the role assigned to the plant in NEA's system and by
proper maintenance of the facilities. It includes the preparation of:
(i)   yearly generation objectives based on broad assumptions about availability
of water and a general program of maintenance;
(ii)   monthly programs based on the yearly plan but using already better defined
data on demand, water availability and maintenance requirements; and
(iii) the detailed daily operation program.
Several hundred activities related to operation and maintenance are defined in
detail, as well as planned and monitored in the context of a computerized system,
which also helps define the performance driven incentives to be provided to the
personnel.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
The Project did not include studies. Such technical assistance was covered in the
TA II and III Projects, implemented in parallel with the Marsyangdi Project.



- 19 -
Table 8 A: Project Costs
Item                        Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
(Million US$)                   (Million US$)
Local    Foreign     Total     Local      Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs                Costs      Costs
Preliminary Cost and     5.6       3.0        8.6       5.6         3.0        8.6
Administration
Civil Works (Lot I):    13.6      45.0       58.6       5.3        21.3       26.6
Diversion Works,
Intake etc.
Civil Works (Lot II):   25.0      73.7       98.7       6.1        76.8       82.9
Tunnels, Power
Station, etc.
Electro-mechanical       6.9      40.8       47.7       3.9        71.2       75.1
Equipment
Transmission Works,      5.0      13.9       18.9       3.4        25.6       29.0
Local Distribution
Construction             0.0       7.5        7.5       0.0        21.9       21.9
Supervision
Technical Assistance     0.0       4.1        4.1       1.7        4.0         5.7
Mugling-Marsyangdi       /I        /I         /I        2.0        0.5         2.5
Road
Sub-Total               56.1      188.0     244.1      28.0       224.3      252.3
Physical Conting.        7.8      25.8       33.6
Price Conting.          11.0      34.6       45.6
Grand Total             74.9      248.4     323.3       28.0      224.3      252.3
/1    Not included in appraisal estimate. The improvement of this road was financed through the part of
Credit 1478-NEP that was not disbursed after completion of the plant.



- 20 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                          Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
(million US$)                (million US$)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs               Costs     Costs
IBRD/IDA:                    0.0      107.0    107.0       0.0       98.5      98.5
Cofinancing institutions:(*)
1. KfW                      4.0      70.5      74.5       5.2      83.4       88.6
2. Saudi Fund               0.0      25.0      25.0       0.0       21.2      21.2
3. Kuwait Fund              0.0      21.0      21.0       0.0       21.2      21.2
Domestic contribution:
1. fHMG                    70.9      24.9      95.8      22.8       0.0      22.8
Total:                      74.9      248.4    323.3       28.0     224.3    252.3
(*) ADB's financing
contribution to the Project was
part of ADB's Sixth Power
Project.



- 21 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
I.    The ICR carried out a computation of the IERR (or, more precisely the IFRR) using the same
methodology as the SAR (Annex 24), i.e. equating the revenues with the economic benefits, which tends to
underestimate these benefits.
2.    The main assumptions used were as follows:
-     The capital costs appear in accordance with the actual expenditures. They further include renewal
costs of US$ 35 million in the FYs 2015 to 2018.
-      Incremental generation corresponds to the actual generation until FY 1995; from then on it was
assumed 400 GWh until FY 2010 and 380 GWh thereafter. These figures compare with actual
generation between 400 and 450 GWh per year in the first half of the 1990s.
-      System losses are assumed at actual levels (i.e. about 25% of energy sent out until FY 1995,
diminishing to 20% by FY 2000 (as assumed in the SAR for Arun III), and to 18% by FY 2005.
-      Operating costs are estimated at US$ 1.5 million per year, which, though lower than the SAR
estimate (0.8% of capital costs) still represents a high 12 to 15% of NEA's total cash operating
costs; thus, the computation should still be on the conservative side.
-      Tariffs used are:
Case A: Actual average revenue per kWh sold as of the first year of operation (FY 1991), which
corresponds to the assumption made in the SAR (Case 1), i.e. 1994 NRp. 2.07 or 1994 USc 4.1
per kWh.
Case B: Actual average revenue per kWh sold as of FY 1995, i.e. 1994 NRp. 3.55 or
1994 USc 7.1 per kWh. The resulting IERRs are:
Under Basic    Operating Costs   Tariffs 10% lower   Tariffs 10% higher
Assumptions     50% higher      from FY 1995 on      from FY 1995 on
Case A       2.8%            2.2%               2.0%                3.3%
Case B       6.7%            6.3%               6.0%                7.2%
4.     Case B reflects more likely figures than Case A, as the higher revenues assumed under Case B
have actually been achieved and are unlikely to suffer reductions in future. The resulting IERRs favorably
compare with those determined at appraisal (6.4% for a comparable case).
5.    The above sensitivity analysis demonstrates that the IERR is insensitive to substantial
modifications of the operating costs, but, as could be expected, quite sensitive to variations in the average
tariff level.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Present    Original      Revised        Description of        Comments
status    fulfillment    fulfillment     covenant
date         date
DCA       3.02(a)    met        n.a.          n.a.        HMG to employ       Consultants were
consultant           employed.
DCA       3.02(b)    met        n.a.          n.a.       HMG to employ a     Claims advisor was
claims advisor         employed
DCA       3.03(b)    met        n.a.          n.a.        AMG to maintain        MHDB was
MHDB             maintained until
commissioning
DCA        3.07     partly     01/86         06/86       HMG to adopt and   Still pending. By 1994
met                                 implement a plan      outcome not yet
for resettling    satisfactory, albeit
population in the    under conditions
immediate project   established in a 1989
area           review and more
stringent than agreed
during negotiations
DCA        3.08     plan       03/86        06/89*       HMG to prepare,    Plan implementation
prep.                                   adopt, and       became part of the
but not                                 implement a             PSEP
impl.                                   catchment
management plan
DCA       3. 10(a)    met       n.a.          n.a.       HMG to maintain    Panel was maintained
existing Panel of
Experts
DCA       3. 10(b)    met       n.a.          n.a.      HMG to arrange for    NEA's consultants
periodic inspection    carry out such
of project facilities   inspections under the
operation plan
DCA       4.01(a)   met in      n.a.          n.a.      HMG to assure that   Throughout the 1980s
form                                  proper project     quality of accounts
only                                  accounts are         unsatisfactory
maintained
DCA      4.01(b)  not met       n. a.         n.a.        Audited project       Performance
accounts to be   improved in the mid-
submitted not later    1990s (see Annex 2)
than 6 months after
the end of the FY
DCA       4.02(a)   met in      n.a.          n.a.      HMG to cause NEA    Accounting deficient
form                                to maintain proper      until project
only                                    accounts            completion



23 -
DCA       4.02(b)   not met       n.a.          n.a.        Audited of NEA         Performance
accounts to be   improved in the mid-
submitted not later   1990s (see Annex 2)
than 12 months of
the end of the FY
DCA       4.03(a)   not met       n.a.          n.a.       NEA to conduct its    Improvements in
affairs in      1990s in connection
accordance with      with twinning
sound public utility   agreement, but still
practices          undue HMG
intervention
DCA       4.03(b)    met in      01/86          05/85      NEA to submit and    implementation of
form                   (broad plan)     implement a      plan only in the mid-
maintenance plan          1990s
DCA       4.03(c)  substanti     01/86          06/88       NEA to develop        completion of
ally met                               and implement an      implementation
insurance program      under PSEP
DCA       4.06(a)   not met       n.a.          n.a.        NEA to achieve a      (see Annex 3)
since                                 return on assets of
1986                                  5.5% in FY86 and
6% thereafter
DCA        4.07     met in       07/86          07/86      NEA to revalue its    1986 revaluation of
form                                  assets periodicallv    poor quality
DCA        4,08       met         n.a.          n.a.          debt service          No case of
limitation       consultation with
IDA recorded
DCA        4.09       met         n.a.          n:a.       NEA not to declare     No dividends
dividends            declared
DCA       4. 10(a)   not met     01/86          09/86     HMG to submit and   The issue was taken
submission    submission    implement a plan    up again in the PSEP
of plan       of plan       for reducing       (see also Annex 3)
government arrears
DCA       4. 1 1(a)    met in    03/86          01/86      HMG to submit a        plan submitted
substance                               plan for reducing
systems losses
DCA       4. 1 l(b)   not met     n.a.          n.a.       NEA to implement      implementation
loss reduction    delayed; losses still
unduly high
(see Annex 4)
DCA        4.12       met       6 months      4 months        transfer of      assets transferred to
after         after     Marsvangdi plant to         NEA
commission.   commission.      NEA's assets
(06/90)



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The ICR did not identify any deviation of substance from the relevant OMS.
Table 12: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned              Revised              Actual
Project cycle           /2                   /2
Weeks   1000US$   Weeks   1000US$   Weeks   1000US$
Through appraisal                                              104.7      200.8
Appraisal - Board                                               89.8      188.8
Board - effectiveness                                            /I        /I
Supervision                                                    143.9     394.0
Completion                                                      16.1      55.1
Total                                                          354.5     838.7
/I included in supervision
/2 not available (old project)



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/    Number of       Days        Specialized        Performance rating       Types of
project cycle   Year        persons       in         staff skills                                problems
Field     represented
Implementat  Developmen
ion status    t impact
Through         01/80          2           14          PE, FA           --             -
appraisal      10-11/80        2           12          PE, FA
01-02/82        2           18          PE, FA
07/82         2           10          PE, FA
(Appr.)          11/82         4           29        PE, FA, EC
Appraisal       07/83          1            6            PE              --           --
through
Board
approval
Board           07/84          1           5             PE
approval        03/85          1           7             PE              I             I
through
effective-ness
Super-vision    02/86          1           7             PE              2             1
06/86         3           14        PE, FA, EC          2             1
10/86         1           7             PE              2             1
02/87         1            5            FA              2             1
03/87         2            5          PE,FA             2             1
02/88         6           20*       DC, PE, FA,         2             1
RS, ES, TS
11/88         5          20*        SP, PE, FA,         2             1
RS, ES
02/89          1          16*           SP              2             1
05/89         5           16*     PE, SP, FA, ES,       2             1
RS
11/89         5           11       PE, SP, FA,         2             1
ES, RS
05/90         2           5*          PE, FA            3             1       Claims,
finances,
losses
11/90         2          13*          PE, FA            3            2        (See above)
03/91         2           15*         PE, FA            3             2       (See above)
12/92         3          13*        SP, PE, FA          3            2        NEA manag.
and finances
05/92         2            5          PE, FA            2             2
Completion       11/95         1           11 *          PE              --           --
Specialized Staff: DC (Division Chief), EC (Economist), ES (Environmental
Specialist, FA (Financial Analyst), PE (Power Engineer), RS (Resettlement
Specialist), SP (Systems Planner), TS (Training Specialist).
I Missions also providing substantial contributions to other power projects in Nepal.



- 26 -                                  Annex 1
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
PROJECT COSTS AND COMPLETION DATES
Evolution of Project Costs
I.    One of the main reasons it took IDA more than four years to process the project was that it wanted
to avoid the type of cost and time overruns it had experienced in the context of the Kulekhani project (75%
cost overrun and 26 months delay -- Cr. 600-NEP and Cr. 600- 1 -NEP), which it had supported with Credit
0600 approved in 1975. Table 1 shows how estimated costs and the commissioning date for the
Marsyangdi project evolved over time.
Table 1: Evolution of Project Costs and Commissioning Dates
Date of Estimate     Project Costs (Million US$)  Commissioning Date
04/80                      150                       12/84
07/81                     170                        n.a.
03/82                     213                        n.a.
08/82                     303                       06/87
01/83                     328                        12/87
04/83                     338                        n.a.
05/84 (SAR)                  323                       07/89
03/86                     207                       12/89
03/88                     250                       06/90
Actual                     244                       03/90
2.    The table clearly justifies IDA's cautious approach to the project and shows the growth of
estimated costs related to the deepening understanding of the technical difficulties of the project. The
probing of the Panel of Experts was a major factor in this development. By mid-1983 the costs reached a
high point and induced HMG to doubt the realism of the estimates. Though actual costs came out some
20% below appraisal estimates (which was at about the same level as the maximum estimate), they still
were some 70% higher than those determined in connection with the feasibility study.
Actual Costs in Current Terms
Table 2 sets forth the actual costs determined by NEA supported by their consultants.



- 27 -                                   Annex I
Actual Project Costs in Million Current US$
Nr.  Item                                       Local    Foreign    Total
I    Preliminary Cost                             2.9       2.5         5.4
2    Administration                               2.7        0.5        3.2
Subtotal 1+2                                5.6        3.0        8.6
3    Civil Works (headworks)                      5.2       21.1       26.3
4    WeirControl Building/l                       0.1        0.2        0.3
Subtotal 3+4                                5.3       21.3       26.6
5    Civil Works (headrace, power house etc.)
Settlement of contractor claims             6.1       73.3       79.4
6                                                           3.5         3.5
Subtotal 5+6                                6.1       76.8       82.9
7    Hydraulic Steel Structures                    1.1      18.4       19.5
8    Mechanical Equipment                         0.5       13.0       13.5
9    Electrical Equipment                         2.1       35.6       37.7
10    O&M Equipment /2                             0.1       4.0        4.1
11    Gate Control Equipment /L                    0.1       0.2        0.3
Subtotal 7+8+9+10+11                         3.9      71.2       75.1
12    Transmission Lines                           1.3       3.1        4.4
13    Substations etc.                             2.0      22.1       24.1
14    Communications Link                          0.1       0.4        0.5
Subtotal 12+13+14                           3.4       25.6       29.0
15    Construction Supervision                   --         21.9       21.9
16    Panel of Experts, Claims Specialist
Supervision of Loss Reduction Program /3  --           0.7        0.7
17    Training                                    0.1        2.3        2.4
18                                                 1.6       1.0        2.6
Subtotal 16+17+18                            1.7       4.0        5.7
Grand Total                                26.0      223.8      249.8
/I     Contracted in 1995
/2     Not explicitly included in SAR estimate
/3     Estimated at about 20% of total TA for loss reduction.



- 28 -                                   Annex I
Costs in Constant Terms, Quality of Cost Estimates
Using actual exchange rates for the conversion of local costs into NRs, the GDP deflator to adjust convert
local current costs into constant costs, and the MUV index to achieve the analogous conversion of foreign
costs, leads to the results summarized in Table 3 below.
Table 3: Comparison of Costs in Constant Terms
Local     Foreign      Total
Estimated Base Costs              56         188        244
in million 1984 US$
Actual Costs                      24         176        200
in million 1984 US$
Increase in Terms of             -63%       -6%        -18%
the Base Costs
The weakness of the above calculation is the distribution of the costs between local and foreign ones and
the assumed distribution of the costs over time. However, a sensitivity analysis involving once the doubling
of the assumed local costs and once a grosslv different distribution over time lead to total costs in 1984
terms that differ from the above by less than 2%. Therefore, the conclusion is that the total costs in
constant terms are valid in the measure that the actual costs in current terms are reliable. It appears further
that
total costs in current and in constant terms are in the order of 23% and 18% lower than those
estimnated at project appraisal;
the civil works were substantially overestimated at appraisal whereas actual costs of equipment
were in the order and partly (especially electrical equipment) even higher than the corresponding
estimates; and
the construction supervision generated expenditures that were nearly three times those expected at
appraisal; they represented some 12% of the total cost directly attributable to the plant construction
and installation, which is high but not extraordinarily so; the reason for this seems to be the long
preparation time and probably a low estimate to start with.



- 29 -                                  Annex 2
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUBMISSION OF AUDITED ACCOUNTS
I.    Para. 2.10 of the DCA called for the submission of (i) audited project accounts and full reporting
for MHDB within six months of the end of each FY, and (ii) audited financial statements and full report for
NEA within 12 months of the end of the FY. There also was an agreement that NEA's unaudited financial
statements would be submitted within six months of the end of a F Y.
2.     The table below sets forth expected and actual dates of submission of the accounts as they appear
in supervision reports. There often are discrepancies among successive reports, as audits appear as
submitted in one report, obviously when submission seemed imminent, and in the next report the same
statements appear as still not available. There also is a substantial delay between the completion of the
audit and its certification by the Auditor General, which contributes to the uncertainty about the definition
of the date of completion of an audit.
Anticipated and Actual Dates of Audit Submission
FY                   Project Accounts                      NEA Accounts
Due              Actual             Due               Actual
86               01/87             02/87**           07/87              12/88
87               01/88             04/90             07/88              04/90
88               01/89             04/90             07/89              11/90*
89               01/90             03/91             07/90              03/91*
90               01/91             11/91              07/91             05/92
92                                  ***              07/93              10/93
94                ***               ***              07/95              08/95
* Audited but not yet certified by Auditor General
** Accounts not in accordance with standard accounting practices
***Project completed, assets transferred to NEA.
3.     The above table shows that, though performance improved over time, by project completion, NEA
supplied audited statements at least six months late, and this does not even include the further delay related
to the certification of the audits by the Auditor General. However, more recently, NEA's performance with
respect to the timely submission of audited (but not yet certified by the Auditor General) financial
statements has become satisfactory as the accounts for FY93 were submitted before the limit date and those
for FY94 within six months of the end of the FY. The quality of the accounts has also substantially
improved and are less the subject of observations by the auditors.



- 30 -                        Annex 3
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
NEA RECEIVABLES FROM HMG
1.    The Borrower was expected to submit by 01/86 a plan for reducing NEA's Government
receivables. By 03/86 the submission date was postponed to 05/86. In 07/86, IDA threatened remedial
action unless a proposal was available to IDA before 09/30/86. The submission occurred at this limit
date.
2.    Supervision missions consistently checked on the development of these accounts receivable, but
the resulting figures appearing in successive supervision reports are to an extent contradictory as set forth
in the table below. Presumably, the main reasons for this were, that the accounts were unreliable in the
first place and that various values for a given FY refer to different points in time in the course of that
year. It is further likely that the figures appearing under sales to Government cover the entire public
sector and not only Government proper.
3.    Even taking into account the uncertainty reflected in the table, it is evident that Government and
NEA have, until now never complied with the covenant. However, in FY89 a substantial improvement
took place, when NEA implemented an action plan agreed with IDA. In connection with the 1992 PSEP,
the parties agreed on a new action plan implying a methodical approach to ensure that within one year: (i)
all consumer ledgers would be updated, (ii) correct consumer accounting procedures rigorously enforced,
(iii) ageing analysis done, and (iv) collection performance monitored and maintained at satisfactory levels.
At the same time, the parties agreed that Government receivables would not exceed three months billings
instead of the two months' billings limit set in connection with the Project (SAR PSEP, paras. 4.13 to
4.15). In FY93 NEA nearly achieved this goal.



- 31 -                          Annex 3
Government Receivables
Arrears       Billings     Arrears/Billings
NRs.Million    NRs.Million   Mnths of Billings
FY87                   Total        129           452             3.4
(Sup. Rep. 11/88)      Gov.         41             72             6.8
non-Gov.     88            380            2.8
FY87                   Total        179           452             4.8
(Sup. Rep. 06/89)      Gov.         39             15            31.2
non-Gov.    140            437             3.8
FY88                   Total       218            541             4.8
(Sup. Rep. 06/89)      Gov.         58             20            34.8
non-Gov.    160            521             3.7
FY88                   Total       256            551             5.6
(Sup. Rep. 06/90)      Gov.         58             19            36.6
(Sup. Rep. 12/89)      non-Gov.    198            532             4.5
FY89                   Total       264            694             4.6
(Sup. Rep. 06/90)      Gov.         51             24            25.5
non-Gov.    213            670             3.8
FY89                   Total       218            707             3.7
(Sup. Rep. 12/90)      Gov.         38             69             6.6
non-Gov.    180            638             3.4
FY89                   Total       309            707             5.2
(Sup. Rep. 01/92)      Gov.         38             69             6.6
nor-Gov.    271            638             5.1
FY90                   Total       Not given in the supervision report
(Sup. Rep. 0 1/92)     Gov.
non-Gov.
FY91                  Total        477            961             6.0
(Sup. Rep. 01/92)     Gov.          31             76             4.9
non-Gov.    446            885             6.0
FY91                  Total        437            961             5.5
(Sup. Rep. 07/92)      Gov.         37             76             5.8
non-Gov.    400            885             5.4
FY92                   Total       593            1441           4.9
(NEA statement         Gov.         168           132            15.3
received in 11/95)     non-Gov.    425            1309           3.9
FY93                  Total        485            1794           3.2
(NEA statement        Gov.          49            164            3.6
received in 11/95)     non-Gov.    436            1630           3.2
FY94                  Total        538            2437           2.6
(NEA statement         Gov.         83            201            5.0
received in 11/95)     non-Gov.    455            2236           2.4



-32 -                             Annex 4
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
REDUCTION OF SYSTEMS LOSSES
1.    After the sector's first, unsuccessful, attempts at reducing losses in the first half of the
1980s, ADB, in the context of its second power project in Nepal, provided funds for TA to study
the losses and the concrete measures to reduce these from a level in excess of 30% to some 15%
in 1987. Before the start of the Project, NEC had already created in its own organization a
department responsible for the reduction of system losses and was said to enact by-laws dealing
with electricity theft. Under the Project, IDA made available funds for studying a second phase
program with less ambitious targets. British Electricity International (BEI), the consultants hired
under the ADB project submitted a draft program, which allowed IDA to consider that NEA had
met the initial part of Section 4.11 (a) of the DCA calling for NEA to submit such a draft program
by 03/31/86. The contract for the detailed design and the supervision of the implementation of
the second phase was signed in 08/88 and work started in 03/89. Therefore, as set forth in further
detail in the table below, NEA was unable to comply with several targets agreed with IDA.
2.    The main reasons for the low rate of meeting the targets seem to be: (i) the sector's re-
organization that slowed down the sector's operations until the new setup was reasonably
functional, (ii) NEA's shortage of local funds, (iii) low priority accorded by NEA to the losses
reduction program, due to weak management, limited ownership of the program by NEA
management, and slow procurement.



-33-                             Annex 4
Losses Reduction, Targets and Achievements
Targets              Achieved                   Observations
Overall Losses:                 Achieved in
- FY86: 24%           30%      FY93: 26%
-FY91: 18%            26%      FY94: 27%
FY95: 26%
Losses in Central               Achieved in
System:                        FY92: 32%
- FY86: 25%           n.a.     FY94: 28%
- FY91: 20%           32%      In FY95 the target was revised to 20% by FY 2000
(SAR Arun III).
Metering all           n.a.     At the time, NEA's records were not reliable
customers by                   enough to substantiate the percentage of metered
09/30/86                       connections. Indications are that target was
substantially met (Sup.R. 11/86). Phase II of the
program was to address shortcomings in metering
management and recording). NEA actively pursues
the program.
Checking and sealing   n.a.    In 06/89, targets were changed to achieving under
of the meters of all           Phase II of the program:
large customers by              - inspection, control, and calibration
06/88, and rectifying              of 40,000 connections;
and recalibrating all           - replacement of 25,000 meters; and
meters by 06/90.                - sealing all meters.
The program is continuing.
Indications are that the set goals were substantially
achieved, though later than anticipated.



- 34 -                              Annex 5
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
Background
1.    The SAR (paras. 3.22 and 3.23) sets forth that the Project would require the acquisition of about
69 ha of land from some 110 land owners /1. An additional 5 ha were needed for the quarry. By the
presentation of the Project to IDA's Board of Executive Directors, MHDB had purchased 7 houses and 49
ha of land and already compensated the owners of 36 ha. It further envisaged to provide employment for
those whose livelihood would suffer most by the Project. The SAR further states that no tribal people
would be affected.
2.     To cover the above aspects of the project, the DCA (Section 3.07) states that the Borrower, by
01/31/86, would adopt and thereafter implement a "rehabilitation program satisfactory to the Association
for those persons dislocated as a result of' the project. A side letter to the DCA specifies that the Borrower
would adequately compensate the 110 /2 land owners mentioned above and about 8 former house owners
such as to allow these to continue in their work and profession. It was understood at the time that about 65
of the affected land owners would retain land in excess of I ha (considered to be the minimum required for
sustainable farming), about 42 would remain with less than one ha, and some three families would be left
landless, but MNHIDB would provide employment for them /3. Thus, strictly speaking, the Credit documents
did not covenant the resettlement and the development of a resettlement plan: Only a rehabilitation program
for the affected people was legally called for. This, of course, does not mean that IDA understood that a
resettlement plan was unnecessary. But, it seems that, before credit approval, IDA was not particularly
forceful in conveying this message to the Nepalese side. It is worth mentioning that, during preparation and
implementation of the Project, IDA's codified policies on environmental issues evolved. Indeed, OMS 2.36
on environmental aspects of Bank work was issued in 05/84 (i.e. about the time IDA's Board approved the
Project) and OD 4.30 on involuntary resettlement in 06/90. Both directives replaced less explicit and
weaker ones.
3.    At the time of the Project's preparation and early implementation, HMG's policy on resettlement
and land acquisition for major projects included the following main points:
-      The project entity carries out a survey which is sent to MWR and, after decision, to the Chief
District Officer of the Ministry, who publishes a notice informing landowners about the land
acquisition.
/1    The figure became 186.
/2     Actually 186.
/3     According to an 11/14/86 internal memo on resettlement issues, at that time, the Project left about 37
families landless or with plots of clearly uneconomic size. For as much as 50% of the affected families the
sale of the land needed for the Project threatened to reduce them to marginality.



-35-                                  Annex 5
-      A price assessment committee including district and project representatives is constituted to fix the
compensation rate.  In case of disagreement, there is a possibility to appeal to the Zonal
Commissioner. (By mid-1986, 51 persons had appealed).
-      HMG compensates in cash and lets people resettle in the place of their choice.
4.     The Project consultants in their environmental impact assessment of 1981 had proposed that the
affected families benefit of 15% disturbance allowance on top of the market value of the land, special
assistance in hardship cases, priority for employment on the project work force, and assistance for
increasing production on the land situated in the immediate vicinity of the project but not affected by
construction.
Action Taken During Project Implementation
5.     The lack of precision in defining the issue at the preparatory stage and the low priority that the land
acquisition issue had as well as other factors that delayed the Project resulted in HMG's inability to submit
a program for the "rehabilitation" within the agreed time frame. Nevertheless, in mid-1986, MHDB
produced a preliminary proposal, which lacked an action plan, but made clear that a total of 226 families
would be affected and suggested that there would be no difficulties with claims for compensation.
6.    In 11/86, IDA started a major effort to push this issue into the right direction. In particular, it
made clear that IDA did not consider cash compensation adequate for achieving the objectives of
resettlement in the context of an IDA Project, as it fails to assure that the affected people can continue to
make their livelihood through the activities they pursued before the Project started. IDA, taking a more
active stance, suggested the preparation of a resettlement plan based on a strategy of agricultural
development, watershed management programs (also to be studied in the context of the Project) and the
creation of employment opportunities. To achieve this IDA proposed the preparation of a plan including (i)
a census of the affected and host populations, (ii) an inventory of public and common infrastructure and
resources, (iii) identification and assessment of new land and housing sites, (iv) survey of potential host
population, (v) definition of resettlement policy to be applied specifically in the context of the Marsyangdi
development; (vi) setting up and training the organization required for the specific resettlement, (vii)
defining development objectives and policies for the new sites and the possible new production systems,
(viii) elaboration of programs for both agricultural of non-farm employment in the affected areas and the
new sites, (ix) planning of infrastructure needed for the above development, and (x) definition of time
tables coordinated with those for the hydroplant, of the costs, and of the funding. /4 In view of the links
between the resettlement and the watershed development plan, IDA suggested that the consultants for the
latter area should also prepare the resettlement plan. HMG delayed the decision on this point and
ultimately refused to proceed as it did not wish to depart from its established policy and consider
compensation other than in cash for the people affected by the project.
7.            The controversy continued through 1988, when the Borrower agreed to have a Nepalese
consultant carry out a socio-economic study on site. This analysis became available in 1989. The
consultants were able to contact 78% of the affected households, which suggests that only a few families
had left the area in the meantime.
/ 4    Internal note of 11/16/86.



- 36 -                              Annex 5
8.    Compensation had been given in cash only, though a few landowners had asked for land. Rates
paid were below market prices, and most sellers were dissatisfied since they were unable to purchase
altemate land with the compensation provided. Most people whose land was acquired for the project had no
legal knowledge, and, in particular, no knowledge of their right to appeal the land deals. There is also
evidence that the later acquisitions were at better prices than the earlier ones, which produced further
dissatisfaction.
9.    The study identified 42 hardship cases out of the 174 PAPs found on site, and recommended a
series of rehabilitation measures including redistribution of land acquired but no longer required by MHP,
and income restoration programs. Although IDA follow-up missions continued to ask for a detailed plan for
carrying out the recommended scheme, the only outcome was grudging recognition that perhaps some
hardship cases still needed to be dealt with. The Borrower thinned the number of hardship cases down to 27
but until 1995 had still not undertaken any rehabilitation activities other than the initial cash compensation
paid between 1978 and 1985 when the land was acquired.
Further Action
10.   An IDA mission undertook field investigations to review the situation of project affectees in
March 1996, and held discussions with NEA to determine appropriate remedial measures. The findings of
that mission are that (1) NEA commissioned an internal study in 1995 to develop a remedial plan but the
study only covered the 27 households accepted by NEA from the 1989 study as being hardship cases; (2)
the plans being proposed by NEA were inadequate to address outstanding resettlement issues; (3) all
affected households interviewed confirmed that land values paid to affectees were inadequate for them to
purchase alternate land; (4) field investigations validate the basic data provided in the 1989 consultant's
report but suggest that, if anything, their estimate of hardship cases was an underestimate; (5) the actual
number of seriously affected households is 48, of which 7 have been rehabilitated through employment of
one person from each family on the project, but 41 still need rehabilitation; (6) MHP has 9.5 ha of land (8
ha agricultural, 1.5 ha land adjacent to the road) acquired for MHP but no longer needed by the project; (7)
NEA has been advised to re-design a manageable rehabilitation plan using the 1989 survey data as baseline
information, with three basic rehabilitation packages: re-allocation of the 8 ha of agricultural land,
development and redistribution of the 1.5 ha roadside plot as a commnercial area for redistribution, and
provision of livestock loans, to seriously affected households, leaving the choice of rehabilitation package
to individual households. NEA has expressed an interest in implementing the rehabilitation program,
preferably through an NGO, to bring MHP to closure. The issue was taken up, once again, with IDA's
letter dated May 7, 1996, addressed to HMG.



- 37 -                                                                    Annex 6
NiEPL
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL VALUES OF NEAS PRiNCIPAL OPERATIONAL AND FiNANCiAL INDICATORS
FY                                   1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991         1992        1993        1994        1995
Total Enemy Sent Out (GWhl
-Projected                              471          544         610         676         722         770
Actual                                 489         571         628         672          774         906         981         963         1031        117
Sales (GWh3
-Projected                              349          413         469         525         569         615
- Actual                                342          403         465         496         548         669         737         709          757         830
Sales Growth
-Projected                            12.4%        183%        13.6%       1191%        8.4%        8.1%        94%
-Actual                               148%         178%        15.4%       67%         105%        22.1%       102%         38%         6.9%/.       9.6%
Peai LoadiM
-Projected                               124         144         159         170         182         198         210         231
-Actual                                  110         126         141         150         176         204         216          214         231         244
0.001%      0 00%/.
Peak Load Growth
-Projected                            308%        15.6%        106%         691%        6.8%        92%         5.8%
-Actual                               37.5%        145%        i 9h/       64%         17.3%       159h%        5.9%        -09%/.      7.9%        56%
Losses in Tcrms of Energy Sent Out
-Projected                            257%        24.1%        231%        22.3%       212%        201%
- Actual                              30.0%       29.4%        26 0/.      26.2%       29.2%       26.2%       24.9%       26.4%       26.6%        25.7%
Load Factor
- Projected                           43 3%       43.2%       43 8%       45.4%        45 4%       44.3%       47.3%       47.3%
-Actual                               50.7%       51.7%/.     50.8%        51.1%       50.2%       507/        51.9/       514%        50.9%/.      52.3%
Averaee Revenue ne kWh Sold (Current NRv)
-Projected                              135         135         135         1.35        159          1.76
-Actual                                 I 11        1 12        1 18        1.39         139         1.44        1.96        2.53        3.27        3.96
Averaee Revenuc oa kWh Sold (Constant 1994 NRp.
-Projected                              2.16        202         1.91        180         I 88        2.10
- Actual                                188         185         1.91        2.19        2.13        2.07         2.57        2.90        3.27        3.56
Peronnel Cost 2nr kWh Sold (Constant 1994 NRD.'
-Projected                              0.20        0.17        0.16        017         015         013
-Actual                                 0 45        0 46        0 49        0.54        0 54        0.60         0.53        0.52        0.46
Gpgration & Administration Cost 2cr kWh Sold (Constant 1994 NRp.)
-Projected                              0.26        0 26        0 22        019         0.34        0 30
-Actual                                 0.26        027         0.22        027         026         021          0.21        026         0.28
Total Cash Oneratine Cost vcr kWh Sold (Constant 1994 NRp.
-Projected                              050         0.46        041         055         0.49        044
-Actual                                 0 81        0.78        0.95        1 33        1 29        0 92         1 09        1 29        1 11
Rate of Return on Nct Fixed Assets in OCeration
- Projected                            5 4%        6 0%/6      6.0%N        6.0%/6      6.0N.       6.0%s
-Actual                                5.8%        4.4%         3.0%/       3.2%        2.9%/       19%/        0.5%        0.2%         1.6%
Ooemtau Ratio (Onerouing expenditurcs includinag taxes/Total oertine revenues)
-Projected                            60.7/.      56.8%       57.7/.      63.3%        51.2%       4S.4%
-Actual                               63.3%       6899/.      785%        1455%       159.4%      1377/.      106.91%     102.6%       82.70/.
Debt Service Coverse Ratio
-Projected                               19          16          18          18          1.0          14
-Actual                                  16          1.2         16          1 4         1.6         3.3          6.3         12          1.7
Debp7gluitw Ratto
- Projected                            40/60       47/53       46/54       45/55       52148       52/48
-Actual                                46/54       34/66       29fl1       11189       13/S7       33167       34/66        37/63       39(61
Current Ratio
-Projected                               I 8         2.1         1 7         1 8         5 4         5.0
-Actual                                  09          25          13          12          1 1          13          23          20          47
Accounts Receivable (months of billin2s
-Projected                               3 3         3.3         3.3         3 3         3 7         4.3
-Actual                                  38          44          5.2         5.0         56          89           6.0         3.0         3.0
Accounts Payable (months of billinna)
-Projected                               0 9         0.8         0.7         1.1         0 9         0.9
-Actual                                 10 3         4 0         3.9         6.5         4.2         2.8         2.0          3.0         3 0
' The indicators which use balance sheet data are estimates for FY93 and FY94 and need confinmation thon4gh nalysis ofNEA's audited rGncial statemensa.



- 38 -                          Annex 7
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(MISSION (NOVEMBER 1995)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Between November 8 and November 17, 1995, Mr. Rene A. Ribi, Consultant to the
Energy and Infrastructure Division of the World Bank's South Asia II Department, stayed in
Nepal to carry out the field work related to the preparation of IDA's ICRs for the two above
projects. The corresponding credits were closed in December 1994 and June 1994, respectively.
Mr. Ribi worked under the guidance of the Task Manager, Mr. Argun Ceyhan, who was in Nepal
on a different mission. Mr. Ribi would like to express his appreciation to the Electricity
Development Center (EDC) of the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) and Nepal Electricity
Authority (NEA) for their assistance and cooperation during the various discussions and the visit
to the Marsyangdi plant that took place during his stay in Nepal. IDA's final comments will be
sent by Management following its review of the present Aide-memoire
2.    The objectives of the mission were:
-     to complement the data base for the report;
to discuss with NEA (a) the operation plan for Marsyangdi which NEA still has to provide
and (b) the measure to which the goals set in the projects were achieved, and
to provide advice and support to the entities of the Borrower in preparing their own
contribution to the ICR;
Data Base
3.    NEA has provided most of the data requested in IDA's letter of April 4, 1995. EDC and
the concerned departments of NEA have agreed to make available, by the end of November 1995,
the remaining information called for. /i
/1    On November 15. only (i) the breakdown of the Pancheswar component of the TA III project, (ii) the final
costs and financing of the various components of TA III for which NEA was responsible, and (iii) the
breakdown of NEA's operating costs for the past three fiscal years and a statement of the development of
Government receivables were still outstanding. Part of this information is likely to become available
before Mr. Ribi's departure from Kathmandu.



- 39 -                         Annex 7
Operation Plan
NEA has submitted a draft operation plan which the mission discussed with the main author. It
was agreed that the final plan, which NEA is to provide by mid December 1995, would outline in
some more detail than the draft the sophisticated arrangements directing operation and
maintenance of the plant, as these arrangements should be a model for the management of other
facilities in the system.
Outcome of the Marsyangdi Project (Credit 1478)
4.    IDA's ICR for this project, which was co-financed by His Majesty's Government (HMG),
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Saudi Fund, the Kuwait Fund, and IDA, will
substantiate IDA's following main findings that crystallized before and during the mission:
NEA, with support from HMG achieved the physical objectives of the project with a high
degree of success: (i) though the plant and its associated facilities was completed seven
months late with respect to the schedule in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) their cost
was some 20% lower than set forth in the appraisal estimate. (ii) the plant's output grew
from 331 GWh in the first full year of operation (1990) to 438 GWh in 1994 which
corresponds to a high plant utilization of 72% and represents about half the total
generation in NEA's system. At the time of the mission's visit, the installation was running
at over 75 MW, the name plate capacity being 69 MW.
The implementation of the institutional measures included in the project was less
successful than that of the project's physical component: (i) NEA institutional
strengthening was slower than expected; (ii) the sector finances remained weak
throughout project implementation; however, in the context of follow-on projects
revenues dramatically increased, accounting and auditing improved both in quality and
timeliness, and accounts receivable from Government fell substantially; (iii) most of the
postponed maintenance which was planned to be carried out during project
implementation had to be delayed until after its completion; (iv) the loss reduction
program failed to achieve the targets agreed at appraisal and was taken up in follow-on
projects; and (v) training developed only slowly under the project; however, progress
improved substantially once the main disagreements between Nepal and IDA on the one
hand and the consultants on the other were eliminated, which occurred in later stages of
the Third Technical Assistance Project (Pancheswar) - TA III - . The subsequent Power
Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP) included further training in line with the previous
programs.
Major complementary work at Marsyangdi, mostly financed or expected to be financed by
KfW, includes: (i) the modifications needed at the manifold where hydraulic instability



- 40 -                         Annex 7
occurs and creates unplanned fluctuations in the turbine output; this work is presently
under negotiations with a member of the consortium that supplied the manifold; the cost is
likely to be substantially higher than the DM I million still retained from the contractor;
completion is expected for the first semester of 1997; (ii) at the weir site, NEA is
constructing facilities that will house central control equipment for all the gates in the
weir/sedimentation pond/intake area and the laboratory for water and sediment analysis,
and (iii) as a glacier lake in the upper reaches of the Marsyangdi catchment is growing and
could become a threat to the plant, a study of the problem is planned for 1996.
Outcome of the TA III Project (Credit 1902)
5.    The ICR for the TA III project co-financed by HMG, KfW, and IDA will discuss the
following main findings by IDA:
The first project objective was to assist HMG in further ascertaining the least cost way to
develop electricity supply to meet expected local and export demand. It was achieved
through the conclusion, about one year later than anticipated at project start, of the field
investigations (on the Nepalese side of the Nepal/India border) for the Pancheswar
development.
The second broad project goal was to advance the design of Arun III which was achieved
through the timely completion of the engineering for the facilities and of the power
evacuation study.
The technical assistance measures supporting the sector's institutional development were
consolidated in a package that was executed in the context of the twinning arrangement
between NEA and Electricite de France (EdF) concluded to follow up on
recommendations set forth in the 1987 Power Sector Review sponsored by ADB and
IDA. At first, progress was disappointing. Only after the TA III project was essentially
completed, did the measures started under the project have a measure of success in the
context of follow-on projects.
The 1 0-year transmission and distribution plan was successfully completed and fulfills the
purpose for which it was prepared. The same applies to the long-run marginal cost and
tariff study which is one of the main bases used by NEA for its planning. The rural
electrification plan, in turn, led to the inclusion of the implementation of a test scheme in
the Marsyangdi catchment under the PSEP; all these studies were somewhat hampered by
the limited response of NEA to their early results.
The design of the Trisuli-Devighat upgrading was the only item not specified at project
start. However, it fit the concept of the project and formed the basis for the
implementation of the improvements under the PSEP.



- 41 -                         Annex 7
Borrower's and Beneficiary's Own Assessments
6.    Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for Credit 1478 requires NEA
to prepare its own assessment and analysis of the project's implementation and outcome. The
essential content of such a report was discussed with NEA's project manager and it was agreed
that NEA would complete its contribution to the ex-post evaluation of the Marsyangdi project by
mid December 1995.
7.    The DCA for Credit 1902 does not include the section on the preparation of an ICR, but
the mission considers that it would be valuable to prepare such an assessment, the more so as the
responsibility for the various project parts were widely disseminated within the sector and most of
the persons who, at the time, were responsible for the components are either in new positions or
have left the organization. Thus, the institutional memory for this project is vanishing fast.



- 42 -                        Annex 8
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDRO POWER PLANT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
OPERATION PLAN
1.    Operation Plan for Future Operation - The plant will be operated in the future
based on the following operation plan.
Operation Plan
2.    The plan is in operation since 1989 and has generated energy as follows (Annex 3):
Year           MWh
1990           331,360
1991           417,929
1992           401,614
1993           441,343
1994           438,332
1995           453,000 (estimated)
During the last six years of operation many operational problems have been faced (refer
Section 3) and based on this experience suitable a operation and maintenance plan has
been established to ensure sustainability of its operation. The established operation and
maintenance plan can be summarized as follows:
Operation
3.    Water Level -During the rainy season the reservoir will be operated at its
minimum level of 333.00 meter with continuous sluicing to maintain the bed load as low
as possible. During the dry season and whenever the sediment content is insignificant the
reservoir will be operated at its maximum level of 337.5 meters.
4.    Flushing. During the rainy season the flushing of sediments from the settling basin
will be done as per requirement without delay. About 20 flushings are required during one
rainy season. The time required for one flushing operation has been optimized to about
2.5 hours by proper coordination of the flushing procedure. The time estimated during
design phase was about 5 hours. Total time of flushing in a year has also been reduced
from 254 hours design period to about 50 hours in actual operation. Flushing requirement
is determined through daily echo sounding. Regular dredging of the compensating
pondage shall be carried out.



- 43 -                        Annex 8
5.    Debris. The removal of debris shall be carried out regularly with the operation of
the Intake Rating machine. Debris is also being partially retained in the floating boom
installed at the entrance to the compensating pondage. This retained debris is flushed out
at the time of each flushing.
6.    Unit Operation. Output of the individual unit shall not be below 16 MW for long
period of time.
Monitoring Activities
7.    Sediment. Major effort has been invested in the accurate measurement of sediment
concentration, deposits and effects to the structure and equipment. A comprehensive
program including daily samplings echo sounding, and their analysis is being executed by
the regular plant personnel.
8.    Structures. Yearly measurements are taken for anchors fixed on powerhouse slope
for analysis of their settlements. This year only these anchors have been retensioned to
their original values. Now slopes are stabilized and measurements shall be taken in long
intervals.
Maintenance and Spare Parts
9.    Maintenance System- A computerized preventive maintenance system has been
established. 1,774 (at the end of September 1995 )work orders (detailed instruction on
procedure for execution of the maintenance work) covering all the important equipment
have been prepared for easy, timely and reliable execution. The execution work is
constantly monitored and up to date records are maintained. During the period of April
95 to September 95 following numbers of maintenance activities have been executed by
different sections: civil maintenance - 463; mechanical maintenance 1,532; electric
maintenance - 1,745; operation 32.
Maintenance activities to be performed by different sections are distributed to the
section's chief regularly and after their completion reports are entered to the
computer by the administrator of the program. Status of the maintenance work
can be received by the computer any time.
This system is quite new for NEA. It is very effective and efficient. Because of its
effectiveness NEA has initiated to use it in another powerhouse also.
Major Preventive Activities
10.   Turbines. Based on our experience it has been found appropriate to carry out the
preventive overhauling of a unit every 3 years. In this overhauling the critical parts eroded
and damaged are repaired and protected extending its useful life. The complete overhaul



- 44 -                         Annex 8
work is carried out by the plant personnel. Special high resistance materials (which have
been selected after trail and run of many other products) are used in repair.
11.   Sluice. The ordinary steel lining of the sluice was suffering very high degree of
erosion due to high velocity of sediment and presence of boulders resulting in a major
maintenance every year. Special high resistance materials has been introduced for lining
and it is expected that frequency of maintenance will be increased.
12.   Concrete Ogees. Special material has also been used on ogees for their easy
repair.
13.   Tailrace River Training. Accumulation of boulders and sediments on the tailrace
outlet affects and available head specially during the dry season. Tailrace river training
was done by the plant personnel with available equipment during the year 1994. It was
very effective and now regular river training shall be carried out.
14.   Availability of Spare Parts. A computerized Inventory Management system has
been established. Replacement of consumed part with procurement as per minimum
stocks established and new requirements determined is being regularly made to ensure
their availability.
15.   Staffing of the Plant. The plant is being operated by NEA staff. There are 120 in
number out of which approximately 60 are technical. Almost all the technical staff have
been trained for operation and maintenance.
A performance oriented incentive scheme has been introduced in this plant. This
scheme is contributing a lot to motivate the staff for work. Several operations and
maintenance parameters including generation target, timely preventive maintenance
are monitored through this scheme. It is the intention of NEA to continue this
scheme of reward in fiiture also.
16.   Operation and Maintenance Budget. An yearly budget is allocated to the plant
based upon the proposal of station manager. The station manager is solely responsible for
the administration of the approved budget and in case of unforeseen requirements
additional budget is provided to the plant.
17.   Performance Indicators. For monitoring the performance of the project in future
NEA maintains the following indictors:
i)    Plant load factor
ii)    Generation factor (Actual/planned)



- 45 -                         Annex 8
18.   Additionally at the plant level the following indicators will be maintained:
i)    Productivity factor (KWh/person)
ii)    Direct cost of generation Rs/KWh
iii)   Forced outage hours
iv)    Planned outage hours
v)    Reliability factor (no of days-no of trip/no of days)



- 46 -
Annex 9
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDRO POWER PLANT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
COMMENTS PROVIDED BY
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU (KfW)
KfW's letter dated February 8. 1996. addressed to the World Bank
Subject     Financial Cooperation with Nepal
(i) Marsyangdi Hydro Power Project (Cr. 1478-NEP)
(ii) Third Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1902-IN)
Draft Implementation Completion Reports
Your letter dated January 25, 1996
Dear Sirs:
This is to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the Draft Implementation
Completion Reports in caption. While we find the reports in general very comprehensive
and well conceived we would like to provide a short comment on the issue specified
below.
With regard to "sustainability" of Marsyangdi Hydro Power Project (p.8, para 28
of the Report) it may be worthwhile to mention that about 80 km upstream from the weir
a glacier lake (Thulagi lake) has developed over the last 10 years. As a result, the risk of a
major glacier lake outburst flood (GLOF) became a potential threat to the power plant.
Even though a GLOF may not have a direct impact on the weir, serious operational
problems may result from such an event, owing to the increased bed load arriving at the
intake over many months after the overflow. Therefore, monitoring of the development of
the lake, and, if necessary and feasible, appropriate measures to lower the water level
should be given due consideration.
As you may already know, KfW, upon request of the German Government, shall
commission a study on this issue, which will be financed under the existing Studies and
Expert Fund.
In addition we would like to point out that KfW is initiating a feasibility study on a
new Load Dispatch Center at Kathmandu which shall be equipped with SCADA. The
LDC should also contribute to an improved capacity utilization of the power generated at
Marsyangdi.
(Signed by Mr. Heidt and Dr. Mohnhaupt)












IMAGING
Report No:       15653
Type: ICR



