Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4422A-NEP
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAY 1, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Power and Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Nepalese Rupee (NRs) = US$ .0625
1 Nepalese Rupee         =  100 Nqepalese Paise
16.0 Nepalese Rupees        =  US$1,.00
HMG AND MHDB Fiscal Year (FY)
Beginning July 16 and Ending July 15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kW        =  Kilowatt (=1.341 horse power)
MW        =  Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
kWh       =  Kilowatt hours (=860.42 K cals)
MWh       =  Megawatt hours (thousand kilowatt hours)
GWh       =  Gigawatt hours (million kilowatt hours)
kV        =  Kilovolts (thousand volts)
MVA       =  Megavolt-ampere (thousand kilovolt-ampere)
KOE       =  Kilogram oil equivalent (ten thousand K cals)
TOE       =  Tons oil equivalent (thousand kilogram oil equivalent)
km        =  Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
m         =  Meters (3.2808 feet)
cu m/sec  =  Cubic Meters Per Sec (61022 cu in/sec)
Mm        =  Million Cubic Meters (35.3147 million cubic feet)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Agency
CY       -  Calendar Year
ED       -  Electricity Department
EEC      -  European Economic Communilty
FY       -  Fiscal Year
GTZ      -  Deutsche Gesselschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
HMG      -  His Majesty's Government
IRR      -  Internal Rate of Return
KFAED    -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW      -  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LI       -  Lahmeyer International
MASL     -  Meter Above Sea Level
MHDB     -  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Development Board
NEC      -  Nepal Electricity Corporat:ion
OECF     -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC     -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SATA     -  Swiss Association of Techrical Assistance
SFD      -  Saudi Fund for Development
SHDB     -  Small Hydro Development Board
SCF      -  Standard Conversion Factor
SMEC     -  Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT  SUMMARY  ...................................                           iv-v
I.   THE ENERGY  SECTOR  ...............*                  1..............      .......        1
Background           ............................1................ 
Energy Resources  ........   .............................  .                       1
Hydro Resources  .......... .............................                           2
Small Hydro Schemes                              ...................................  2
Petroleum  ...................................                                      3
Coal           ..................................................                   3
A.   The Power  Subsector  ...................................                            4
Evolution and Present  Structure  ....................                   O..        4
Planning  in the Power  Sector  .................                i........           5
Previous  Bank Group Involvement  in the Power Sector   ...                         6
The Nepal Power System                      .............                           6
Status  of Supply and Access  to Electricity  ....                   ........       7
Rural Electrification  . ......................... .......  .                       8
Power Exchange with India  .....                 ........................           8
Load Forecast ..............                                                        9
Demand Forecast  and Capacity Margin                      ...................      10
Maintenance of Plant ...........                                 .. ..    10
System Losses  ..................  .....             0........    *0.... ............  11
II.   EXECUTING AGENCY AND  THE BENEFICIARY  ......................                            12
A.   Executing Agency  ................. . ....................                          12
B    The Beneficiary  ......                       .............................. ..     13
Audit           .................................................                  14
Government Arrears                ............................ ........            15
Dividends  ..          ............................. ..............                15
Insurance ............................................                             15
Training              ..............................................               16
This report is based on information obtained during an appraisal mission
in November 1982 by Messrs. J.M. Vance, M.P. Manrai and Ms. L. Villa, and
on updated information provided by the Electricity Department of HMG and
the Nepal Electricity Corporation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Page No.
III.    THE  PROJECT . ...                                ..........................................                      16
A.  Project Description and Objectives                                        .....................             16
Project  Components   ........  ..                        ..........................                     17
Project  Objectives   .. ..............  ...    ................. .                                      18
B.  Background of Project Investigation and Formulation ...                                                     18
C.   Cost  Estimates   .............  ..6.0   .... 60....                                                       19
D.    Project  Financing   ........   o...                              ..... ...    .......                    22
E.    Procurement    o......*.**.**...*.*..*.... *         .       .............. **   .....  ...               23
Contract  Review   .... ..............                   . .   ......... .. ..  ......                   25
Fo   Disbursement   .....  o........                                    ............o ...                       25
G.    Implementation   *                 .......... .....             #........**...Os...s#....                 26
Engineering  Services   ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . .    ...........o..o .. .                       26
Ecology and Resettlement o .                         ...................-                                27
Local Distrtibution in the Kathmandu Valley                                         ...........           28
Training  Facility   ...                           .........            ...............                  28
Risks   ..... o_ ..... o_                             ...........o               ........                30
Completion  Report   ......  * ....... ......                    .. -..-.-.....o...  .                   30
IV.  FINANCES  .......                    ............                    __   ...................                           30
Tariffs   ........  o                        ..............-....... .-.-......                                  31
Earnings  Covenant   ..                    .............  ... ....    .. *            ... .......               31
Revaluation  of  Assets   .. .........._                          _ .....o          .............   .           33
Past  Operations   .... *..     ..                  ......  ... .  . . . .. . ..  ........... .... .. .         33
Financing  Plan  ....               .* ...... ................... ..........                                    35
Future  Finances   ... .. ....... .. *. . .. . .   .............._...          ...... .   ....  ...  .          37
V.      JUSTIFICATION   .. ..... *  . ....  ................... ,. .   ..                                                     38
Least  Cost-Solution   ... .   ....                             ............ .             ....., ..            39
Cost/Benefit Analysis ........... ......                                                                        42
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..o. ..................,    43



-i ii-
ANNEXES
1.  Prospective Hydro Sites
2.  Small Hydro Projects
3.  Generation Capacity
4.  Transmission Lines and Distribution Lines
5.  Grid Sub-Stations and Local Distribution S'ub-stations
6.  Past Sales and Generation
7.  Captive Plants
8.  Power Exchange with India
9.  Load Forecast - Assumptions
TABLE I - Load Forecast
TABLE 2 - New Industrial Loads
TABLE 3 - New Irrigation Loads
10. Maximum Demand and Installed Capacity
11. Project General Layout
12   Project Details
Table 1 - Important Basic Data
13. Hydrology and Sedimentation
14. Geology and Seismicity
15. Project Cost Estimate
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Summary Account By Time
Table 3 - Detailed Cost Table
Table 4 - Detailed Cost Table - Civil Works
Table 5 - Summary Account By Project Component
16. Implementation Schedule
17. Training Facility - Cost Estimate
18. Summary of Tariffs
19. Actual and Forecast Income Statements (1978/79 - 1990/91)
20. Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets (1978/79 - 1990/91)
21.  Forecast Sources and Application of Funds Statements (1983/84 - 1990/91)
22. Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
23. Economic Comparison
Table 1 - Capacity Balance
Table 2 - Energy Balance
Table 3 - Assumptions for Comparison
Table 4 - Energy Availability
Table 5 - Cash Flow Statement and Present Values
24. Internal Rate of Return
25. Data and Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Proposed Organization Chart of New Electricity Authority
2. Organization Chart of Marsyangdi Hydro Development Board
MAP
1. IBRD Map 16928R






-iv-
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:    Nepal Electricity Corporation
Amount:          SDR 100.6 million (US$107.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Terms to
Beneficiary:    30 years with interest at 12 percent per annum
Project         The project seeks to meet the forecasted demand for
Description:    electricity in Nepal for the medium term and to strengthen
the Borrower's power sector. This would be a run-of-river
hydroelectric power project, with an installed capacity of
69 MW, located on the Marsyangdi River. Maior project
components include diversion works and diversion weir,
headrace and tailrace tunnels, powerhouse, transmission
lines, substations and equipment. The project also provides
for consulting engineers, technical assistance and training.
A primary benefit would be derived from the generation of
additional electricity for industrial, commercial and
domestic consumption, and for irrigation purposes. Benefit
would also be received through improvement of the distribution
system, enhancement of maintenance capacity and the training
of manpower. Some risk relates to possible deficient project
design and construction, poor management and cost overruns.
Appointment of a panel of experts to review design and
construction, adequate provision for supervision in close
cooperation with the consulting engineer, and assignment of
a claims advisor should help minimize these risks.



_v
Estimated Costs:
------US$ millions------
Item                                     Foreign   Local    Total
1. Preliminary Cost                         2.5      2.9       5.4
2. Administrative Expenditure               0.5      2.7       3.2
3. Civil Works (Lot I)                     45.0    13.6       58.6
4. Civil Works (Lot II)                    73.7    25.0       98.7
5. Equipment                               40.8      6.9      47.7
6. Substations and Local
Distribution System                   8.4      2.2      10.6
7. Transmission Lines                       5.5      2.8       8.3
8. Consulting Engineer                      7.5       -        7.5
9. Technical Assistance                     4.1       -        4.1
Total Base Costs                 188.0    56.1    244.1
Physical Contingencies                  25.8      7.8     33.6
Price Contingencies                     34.6    11.0       45.6
TOTAL                            248.4    74.9    323.3 a/
Financing Plan:
-----US$ millions-----
Foreign   Local    Total
IDA                                       107.0       -       107.0
Saudi Fund b/                              25.0       -        25.0
Kuwait Fund b/                             21.0       -        21.0
KfW b/                                     69.3      5.2       74.5
Government                                 26.1    69.7        95.8
Total                            248.4    74.9       323.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                       -----------------US$ millions--------------
Bank FY             FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90
Annual              14.7    26.0    26.0    19.2    10.2   10.9
Cumulative          14.7    40.7    66.7    85.9    96.1  107.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 4422a-NEP
Rate of Return: 5.9%
Map:              IBRD 16928R
a! Includes taxes and duties of US$15.81 million equivalent.
b/ Amounts are expressed in US dollar equivalents only for ease of comparison.



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
1.01    The two principal known sources of energy in Nepal are forests and
extensive river systems. Though exploration for fossil fuel is continuing,
thus far there have been no discoveries. Nepal realizes that unless its
water resources are exploited for energy production, the depletion of its
forests, which have supplied a major portion of its energy needs, will con-
tinue. One of the main obiectives, therefore, outlined in the Sixth Plan
(1980-85) is the development of hydro potential.
1.02    There are three ministries dealing with the energy sector in Nepal:
the Ministry of Water Resources, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and
the Ministry of Forests. The Electricity Department of the Ministry of Water
Resources is responsible for power development; the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry is responsible for oil, gas and coal exploration efforts through its
Department of Mines and Geology; and the Ministry of Forests looks after
forest resources. Realizing the importance of water resources, a Water and
Energy Commission was created in 1976 under the Ministry of Water Resources
to investigate and prepare plans for the development of water and energy
resources.
Energy Resources
1.03    Of total energy consumed in FY83, 5.5% was from commercial sources
consisting of petroleum (3.8%), coal (1.1%) and electric power (0.6%).
Non-commercial sources provided the remaining 94.5%, with fuelwood being the
primary source (92.2%). Other non-commercial sources such as charcoal, crop
and animal waste accounted for the remaining 2.3%. The volume of commercial
energy consumption is very small. In FY83 it totalled about 196,170 TOE.
Per capita consumption is 9.8 KOE; this compares to 33.4 KOE in Bangladesh,
424.9 KOE in China and 144.2 KOE in India. 1/
1.04    During FY71-83, the annual growth rate of commercial energy consump-
tion was 5.2%, compared to 2.7% for total energy. It is, however, interest-
ing to note that the growth rate of electricity sales during the same period
was about 15.5%.
1/ The comparison is on 1980 basis and is based on 1983 World Bank Publica-
tion titled "The Energy Transition in Developing Countries."



-2-
Hydro Resources
1.05    Nepal is endowed with vast hydro resources.  The estimated theoreti-
cal hydroelectric potential is about 83,000 MW, of which about 25,000 MW has
been investigated for development. This potential is estimated to be dis-
tributed in various river systems of Nepal as follows:
Sapt Kosi basin in Eastern Region /a /b               : 22,000 MW
Sapt Gandaki basin in Central and Western Regions  : 21,000 MW
Karnali and Mahakali basins in Far Western Region  : 36,000 MW
/a  Master Plan of Hydroelectric Poweir Development in Nepal -
Japan International Cooperation Algency, September 1974.
/b Nepal is administratively divided into 5 regions - Central,
Eastern, Western, Mid Western and Far Western.
Another 4,000 MW has been identified in other rivers, including the Kankai,
Kamla, West Rapti, Bagmati and Babai. A list of prospective sites is
attached as Annex 1.
1.06    Some hydro projects would be of such size that export to the Indian
market would be required to economically justify them. A project in which
Nepal and India have shown common interest is the Karnali (Chisapani multi-
purpose) project. A joint committee of representatives of the two countries
called the Karnali Committee has been formed to approve, inter alia, terms of
reference and scope of such prolect and the short list of consultants to
carry out a study of which the main objective is to assess the economic
justification and viability. The study is to be financed by the Bank Group
under a technical assistance credit to Nepal approved by the Board in March
1984.
Saldro Schmes
1.07    Nepal is faced with a difficult situation.  Rugged terrain, difficult
access, massive deforestation, high costs associated with large civil works
and long transmission lines have forced HMG to focus its attention on many
attractive sites where small hydros may be installed. Nepal has embarked on
a program for developing these sites so as to supply electricity to isolated
towns and villages. The size of these small generating units varies from
25 kW to 500 kW. So far 11 power stations with a total installed capacity of
2,179 kW have been commissioned, another 21 stations with an installed
capacity of 9,750 kW are under construction, and 16 schemes with a potential
of 1,786 kW are under investigation. A list of these projects is in Annex 2.
Although many projects referred to have been investigated or are under
various stages of implementation, the costs of investigation, construction
and maintenance are high. Under financing by USAID, HMG has now engaged the
services of the National Rural Electrification Cooperative Association
(NRECA) of USA to advise it on such matters as possible steps in reducing the
capital and maintenance cost, use of indigenous material and manpower as far
as possible, use of cost effective methodology for collecting stream flow and
rainfall data for the site and improvement in the load factor so as to make
each project viable, etc. With the help of consultants, HMG hopes that small
hydros will play a significant role in the future power development of Nepal.



-3-
Most of these small hydro stations are presently being constructed and
operated by the Small Hydro Development Board (SHDB) established in 1976.
1.08    There is appreciable interest by private individuals in using water
power for milling and sawing purposes, and HMG's policy supports this type of
activity. About 200 locally manufactured turbines 1/ varying from 4.5 to
30.0 horse power have been installed by various individuals.  These installa-
tions, unlike small hydros are cheaper and are running successfully because
the spare parts of the locally manufactured equipment are easily available.
Petroleum
1.09    To date neither oil nor gas reserves have been discovered.  In 1980,
an IDA-financed airborne survey of the Terai area was carried out, which
indicated evidence of geological structures that might be suitable for
trapping oil.  In June 1982, IDA agreed to finance a seismic survey and
geomechanical and geological studies in the areas of interest with a credit
of US$9.7 million.  The total cost of the studies is estimated at US$10.9
million.  The completion date of this survey project is June 30, 1985.
1.10    The Nepal Oil Corporation is responsible for importing and distribut-
ing petroleum products throughout Nepal.  During the last ten years
(FY73-83), consumption grew at an average annual rate of 5.5%, totalling
147,580 metric tons in FY83. Projections for the next 20 years show an
average annual growth rate of about 7%. High-speed diesel, used mostly in
the transport sector, accounts for the major share, about 42% of total
imports, followed by kerosene, used for cooking and lighting (24%), and
aviation fuel (15%). The remaining 19% consists mainly of gasoline,
low-speed diesel and furnace oil. The retail and border prices of selected
petroleum products (December 1983) were as follows:
Retail Price          Border Price
Gasoline                   877 per ton            467 per ton
Kerosene                   424 per ton            359 per ton
Diesel                     458 per ton            344 per ton
Coal
1.11    There are no known coal resources.  Consumption of coal, which is
estimated at about 100,000 tons per year, is met entirely by import from
India.
1/  These turbines are of a cross-flow type.  The local manufacturers, under
the guidance of United Mission to Nepal (UMN) and Swiss Association of
Technical Assistance (SATA), have developed designs suitable for heads
from 2.5 meters to 45.0 meters and rated discharge from 20 litres/second
to 2,000 litres/second.



-4-
A. The Power Subsector
Evolution and Present Structure
1 12    Electricity supply was introduced in Nepal in 1911 with a 500 kW
hydro power station biilt to supply a few selected consumers in Kathmandu.
It was not until 1934 that this supply was augmented with a 640 kW hydro
station, followed by a 1,700 kW diesel generating station 20 years later.
Thle management of this rudimentary system was expatriate. As the supply
capacity started to grow, the Government took over responsibility for public
electricity supply.
1.13    The Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC) was established in 1962 under
the Nepal Electricity Corporation Act of 19652. It was established to enable
the management of the important power systemn in northern part of the Central
Region to be freed from the constraints characteristic of the government
bureaucracy. Later, NEC also took over the operations in the remaining part
of the Central Region and in some parts of ithe Western Region. The opera-
tions throughout the rest of Nepal, plus the major part of planning, design
and construction were left to the Electricilty Department of the Ministry of
Water Resources. In 1974, the Eastern Elect:ricity Corporation (EEC) was
established to manage the Eastern Region. A more recent development has been
the establishment of separate development boards, each with its own chairman
and board members, to be responsible for the construction of larger projects.
1.14    The following bodies have been directly involved in operating the
power sector:
(a) Electricity Department (ED) of the Ministry of Water Resources;
(b) Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC);
(c) Eastern Electricity Corporation (EEC) (merged with NEC in
June 1982);
(d) Butwal Power Company (BPC) (merged with NEC in 1981); and
(e) Several development boards, including those for the Kulekhani I
and Marsyangdi hydroelectric projects, transmission line projects
and the small hydro projects.
1.15    ED is a department within the Ministry of Water Resources.  It is
responsible for planning, designing and constructing new projects which,
after commissioning, are handed over for operation to NEC. In the Mid and
Far Western Regions, the projects are retained and operated by the ED. In
practice the larger construction works are executed by autonomous, develop-
ment boards set up under statute for this purpose (para 1.18).
1.16    The ED is headed by a Chief Engineer, who is appointed by a Cabinet
Committee of HMG; he is directly accountable for the work of his Department
to the Secretary of the Ministry. There are currently some 900 staff,
including 200 engineers of which about 150 are on secondment to other
organizations in the power sector. All of its revenues are transferred to



-5-
the Ministry of Finance, while funds for capital and operating expenditures
are obtained through the annual budget.
1.17    NEC is a government-owned corporation with a staff of about 3,200
including about 100 engineers. It is the largest entity in the power sector,
responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in
the country. NEC operates and maintains power stations, transmission lines
and other facilities transferred to its ownership by the ED and the develop-
ment boards. It finances, designs and constructs modest reinforcements to
its distribution network and extends supplies to new customers. It is also
responsible for billing and collection of revenue. NEC has little contact
with the ED or the development boards during planning, design and construc-
tion of new works even though the facilities are subsequently transferred to
it for operation and maintenance.
1.18    The development boards are established under the Development Boards
Act to execute large construction projects, which upon commissioning are
handed over to other entities for operation and maintenance.   Board Members,
in the case of the Kulekhani I and the proposed Marsyangdi projects, include
the Minister of Water Resources as Chairman, and civil servants from various
ministries, including the Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources and the
Chief Engineer, ED. The Project Manager is a senior engineer seconded from
the ED. He is paid by the Board, is accountable to the Board and is also
a member and Secretary of the Board. The boards are staffed by engineers
on secondment from the ED and by others specially selected. A few engineers
are attached to the staff of the consultants and contractors for the
projects. Considering the early stage of power development in Nepal, and the
lack of experience by the Nepalese with large projects, the Boards have
relied heavily on consultants to supervise execution of the projects.
1.19    It is clear from experience that this multiplicity of bodies to
operate the Nepal electricity system has not been satisfactory. HMG recog-
nizes that in order to meet the management and technical tasks associated
with the planned expansion and operation of the system, the power sector's
institutional structure needed streamlining. Therefore, with the assistance
of consultants, HMG has decided to reorganize the power sector into one
entity (see paras 2.05-2.08 for a discussion of the reorganization.)
Planning in the Power Sector
1.20    Planning in the power sector is the responsibility of the ED and the
Water and Energy Commission. The ED is responsible for system studies, load
forecasting, assessing the new requirements for generation schemes, and
transmission and distribution systems, and also planning for rural elec-
trification. The Water and Energy Commission investigates new hydro
resources for development of power.
1.21    The two agencies are assisted in their power planning function by a
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) team of about twelve profes-
sionals, which has been domiciled in Nepal for the last six years.
1.22    In 1974, under Japanese technical assistance, Nippon Koei carried out
a comprehensive Master Plan for hydroelectric power development. In 1979,
the Gandaki river basin was studied in detail by Snowy Mountains Engineering



-6-
Corporation of Australia under technical assistance from UNDP. Other sites
have also been studied by various consulting engineers (Annex 1). Recently
arrangements have been made for Japan Interniational Cooperation Agency to
finance the reconnaissance of the Kosi basin to identify projects. In addi-
tion, under the finances provided by USAID, NRECA of USA is studying the role
of small hydros in the power sector (para 1.07). The Water and Energy Com-
mission intends to carry out detailed basin studies of other major rivers
with funds provided by various donors. At present the sites for which
feasibility/prefeasibility studies are avaiLable are limited. The new
studies will increase the choice and will enable the Government to carry out
a ranking study of the country's potential power projects on a wider basis.
1.23    During negotiations, an agreement was reached that reports of such
studies would be made available to IDA. Thereafter, views will be exchanged
between IDA and the Government to identify a future power development program
in Nepal.
Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Power Sector
1.24    Bank Group involvement in the power sector has been in respect of
the 60 NW Kulekhani Hydroelectric Power Project (Credit 600-NEP and Sup-
plemental Credit 600-1-NEP, totalling US$40.8 million). This project, cost-
ing about US$120 million equivalent, was commissioned in April 1982, and to
date is the largest project ever undertaken in Nepal. It approximately
doubled the total generating capacity of the country. The financing was
arranged through a group of colenders consisting of IDA, OECF, Kuwait Fund,
OPEC, EEC, and UNDP. The original cost of the project was estimated at
US$68.0 million. The reasons for cost incretases were (a) increased cost of
civil works, (b) imposing of local taxes by the Government at a later stage,
(c) increase in the consulting engineers cost due to increase in manmonths
required for supervision, (d) appreciation cf the Japanese Yen against the US
dollar, and (e) increase in the scope of substations and transmission lines.
As a result of the lessons learned during the execution of the Kulekhani
Project, adequate steps have been taken to prevent reoccurrence. A panel of
experts has been appointed in the early design stages of the project, neces-
sary site investigation has been done and adequate physical contingencies
have been provided.
The Nepal Power System
1.25    The strategy of Government has been to build hydro and diesel power
stations mainly in the Central Region because of the concentration of major
loads in the Kathmandu valley. The present total firm plant capacity in
Nepal is 133 MW, of which 115 MW is in the Central Region. Of the total
133 MW, hydro plant capacity accounts for 111 MW, and diesel plant for 22 MW,
with the largest hydro power station (60 MW) located at Kulekhani and the
largest diesel power station (16 MW) located at Hetauda (Annex 3). All hydro
plants are run-of-river types except Kulekhani which has a live storage
capacity of 73.3 million cubic meters, a catchment area of 126 sq km and a
rated head of 550 meters. During the wet season Kulekhani is operated only
during peak time. (For month wise energy output of various stations refer to
Table 4 of Annex 23.) In the event of a shortage of energy caused by abnor-
mally low river flows, NEC and ED rely on the regulation of stored water in
Kulekhani reservoir and on full use of diesel plants.



-7-
1.26    The grid system presently is confined to the Central and part of the
Western Regions and consists of 239 km of 132 kV lines and 227 km of 66 kV
lines. The firm plant capacity in the grid is 130 MW, of which 111 MW is
hydro. The maximum demand of the grid system was 69.1 MW in FY83, compared
to the total Nepal demand of 83.2 MW (Annex 6).
1.27    The Eastern Region registered a maximum demand of 11.0 MW in FY83.
This region does not form part of the grid and depends heavily on energy
import from India. For example, in FY83 only 6% of the energy was generated
within the region, with the remaining 94% being imported from India. The
isolated network in this area consists of 188 km of 33 kV and 76 km of 11 kV
lines connected to small hydros, diesels and to supply points from India.
1.28    The Mid and Far Western Regions, which registered a combined demand
of 3.1 MW in FY83, are managed by the ED. This isolated network consists of
85 km of 33 kV and 52 km of 11 kV lines, also connected to small hydros,
diesels and to supply points from India.
1.29    Extension of the grid to interconnect the Eastern Region through a
283 km 132 kV line from Hetauda to Biratnagar via Janakpur is being financed
by ADB (completion in FY86). There are also plans to extend the grid
westward by erecting 45 km of 132 kV line from Dumkibas to Butwal under
French assistance, and 225 km of 132 kV line from Butwal to Nepalguni via
Shivpur and Lamahi under an ADB loan. This interconnection is likely to be
commissioned in FY87 (IBRD Drawing 16928R). Details of existing and proposed
transmission lines and substations in various regions are shown in Annexes 4
and 5.
Status of Supply and Access to Electricity
1.30    The electric energy consumption in Nepal is characterized by seasonal
variations. Due to increased heating and lighting requirements in winter,
the average monthly consumption in the Central Region, where domestic load is
predominant, is more in winter than in summer. The overall annual load
factor in Nepal is low at about 45% (Annex 6). Of total annual consumption,
about 55% is consumed during the winter months of December through May and
about 45% during the summer months of June through November. The maximum
demand recorded in summer is about 80% of the maximum demand recorded in
winter.
1.31    The total energy generated in Nepal in FY83 was 292 GWh (Annex 6), of
which 279 GWh was hydro, 5 GWh diesel and 8 GWh was generated from captive
plant (Annex 7); in addition, 63 GWh was imported from India. About 98% of
hydro and 42% of diesel energy was generated in the Central Region. Energy
sales within Nepal totalled 232 GWh and export to India was 6 GWh. The
Central Region accounted for the largest amount of sales (72%) followed by
the Eastern Region (15%), the Western Region (8%), and the Mid and Far West-
ern Regions (5%). Of the total energy imported from India, 68% was imported
into the Eastern Region (Annex 6).
1.32    The grid system in the Central and Western Regions has been beset
with systematic load shedding since FY78.  During the winter of 1981, when
load shedding was at its worst, about 14 MW and 2 MW of load was shed during



-8-
peak time in the Central and Western Regions, respectively.  It is estimated
that the unserved detand for energy in FY82 was about 15 GWh, equivalent to
10% of the comlined - .nergy sold in the Cenl:ral and Western Regions. Since
the commissioning of Kulekhani I in April 1982, there has been no necessity
for shedding load.
1233    Applications for new connections have been accumulating since load
shedding was introduced in 1978. At present, about 20,000 applications are
pending, out of which 10,000 are in the Western Region and 8,000 in Central
Region. All but 300 applications are for new domestic connections. Plans
call for connecting about 6700 new domestic consumers annually beginning in
FY84, increasing to 10,000 in FY92 (Annex 9).
1.34    At the end of FY83, the number of consumers totalled 133,672 of which
130,056 were domestic. Based on a total population of 15.4 (1982) million
and assuming six persons per household, 5.0% of the population are served by
electricity. Per capita production of electricity is about 16 kWh; this
compares to 164 kWh in India, 26 kWh in Bangladesh and 307 kWh in China. 1/
Rural Electrification
1.35    The five administrative regions of Nepal are further divided into
14 zones and 75 districts. Each district has a headquarters. The towns and
villages in the districts are grouped together and each group is either a
town panchayat or a village panchayat. The total number of town panchayats
is 29 and village panchayats is 2,905. To date 39 district headquarters
(52%), 28 town panchayats (97%) and 137 village panchayats (5%) have been
electrified. Out of a population of 15.4 million, 1.77 million are living in
the electrified towns and villages. In the next 5 years, HMG plans to elec-
trify an additional 21 district headquarters, one town panchayat and 241
village panchayats. On this basis, a total of 3.6 million people would be
living in electrified towns and villages. ADB has shown an interest in rural
electrification and HMG intends to carry out its program, mainly with ADB
assistance.
Power Exchange with India
1.36    Over the years, the import of power from India has been increasing.
In FY83 about 63 GWh was imported, equivalent to about 22% of energy gener-
ated in Nepal. The power exchange began in April 1954 when India and Nepal
signed an agreement 2/ to supply up to 6.8 MW of power to Nepal for use in
the Biratnagar area in the Eastern Region. In October 1970, another agree-
ment was signed for a two-way exchange of power of up to 5,000 kW along the
border. Recently, in April 1982, a third agreement was signed for Nepal to
export upto 25 MVA (approximately 20 MW) of secondary power to India at
Raxaul and Gandak and to import about 18 MVA from India for consumption in
1/ The comparison is on 1980 basis and is based on 1983 World Bank Publica-
tion titled "The Energy Transition in Developing Countries."
2/ Kosi Agreement of April 1954 amended in December 1966.



-9-
the Eastern, Mid-Western and Far-Western Regions. The actual exchange of
power during FY76-83 at various points is shown in Annex 8.
Load Forecast
1.37    The load growth has been hampered because (a) the existing hydro
generating power stations have not been fully utilized due to operational
problems (para 1.45), and (b) there is no interconnected grid system for the
whole country. In spite of these constraints, the total sales in Nepal grew
at an average annual rate of 18.2% during FY71-78 and 11.7% during FY76-83.
From FY78 onward, load shedding was introduced and growth rates are therefore
distorted. The growth rates during FY71-78 were higher because there were no
restrictions and the system was developing from a small base.
1.38    A load forecast was prepared in 1981 by the Water and Energy Commis-
sion, assisted by the consultants. This forecast was based on an estimate of
the sales requirement for each major category of load in each region. The
generation requirement was then worked out by aggregating the sales and
system losses in each region. The maximum demand of each region and of the
system was calculated by assuming certain load and diversity factors. Other
methods, such as extrapolation of historical trends and the use of economic
indicators, were used in the above forecast as checks to verify the validity
of the load forecast. During appraisal, this load forecast was reviewed and
updated through FY92 in consultation with the ED and NEC. Overall, the
demand is expected to increase by an average of 12.8% per annum. For details
see Annex 9. A summary discussion of the load forecast in major areas is
given below.
1.39    Industrial.  Most existing industries are small scale, involved with
the processing of agricultural commodities and to some degree also with
textiles, leather and wood. However, present plans are to set up larger
scale industrial plants for cement, steel foundry, paper, electrical acces-
sories under joint enterprise with countries in the Region. In view of this,
an appreciable increase in industrial load is expected (Table 2 of Annex 9).
1.40    It is expected that the industrial load would grow at an average
annual rate of 15.9% during FY83-92, compared to the past growth rate of
25.4% during FY71-78 and 12.6% during FY76-83. It is expected that in FY92
the share of industrial load would be 41% of total sales in Nepal compared to
32% in FY83.
1.41    Domestic.  Keeping in view the past trend and considering that the
local distribution system reinforcement is already taking place in the
Central and Eastern Regions (para 1.50), it is expected that a steady growth
in domestic load would continue. An average annual growth rate of 6.1%
during FY83-92 is expected, compared to the past growth rate of 16.2% during
FY71-78 and 9.8% during FY76-83. It is estimated that the share of domestic
sales would be 30% of total sales in FY92 compared to 52% in FY83.
1.42    Commercial.  At present the commercial load is not being properly
classified; only non-industrial load in excess of 50 kW is classified as
commercial. Small hotels, lodges, offices, shops and other commercial estab-
lishments having a load of 50 kW or less are classified as domestic users.



-10-
NEC is in the process of correcting this. It is estimated that the commer-
cial load would grow at an average annual rate of 14.8% during FY83-92 com-
pared to the past growth rate of 16.1% during FY71-78 and 18.5% during
FY76-83, It is expected that the share of commercial sales would be 11.0% in
FY92 compared to 10.0% in FY83.
1.43    Irrigation and Water Supply.  At present only three irrigation
projects, Batter (lift irrigation), Birganj and Lumbini (tubewells) are in
operation in the Central and Western Regions.  HMG has embarked on a number
of lift irrigation and groundwater pumped irrigation schemes. Eight of these
projects, for which finance has been arranged, have been included in the load
forecast (Table 3 of Annex 9). For other prospective irrigation and water
supp7ly loads, a 5% annual growth rate has been assumed. It is expected that
in FY92, the share of irrigation and water supply sales would be 16.0%,
compared to 3.0% in FY83.
Demand Forecast and Capacity Margin
1e44    As stated in para 1.38, the maximum demand is calculated by assuming
certain annual load factors. The present load factor is about 47.5%. It is
assumed that it would improve to 50% in FY86 as new tariffs are expected to
levy extra demand charges. The system maximum demand, proposed installed
capacity and available capacity margin is shown year-wise in Annex 10.
Except for the winter of 1988 one largest unit (30 MW) would be available as
rese-ve. Maintenance of major hydro units is planned during the summer when
maximum demand is low and water flows are high. Additionally those units in
a power station which cannot be fully utilized during the winter could be
servi-ced during that time.
Maintenance of Plant
1345    Until the recent commissioning of Kulekhani I, which alleviated the
shortage of generating capacity, NEC has been postponing malor repairs and
maintenance of its hydro power stations. A typical example is the Trisuli
Power Station, manufacturers of whose equipment have recommended the closing
of the power station for immediate repairs and proper maintenance. Further
problems at Trisuli include an outage of one unit for the last two years due
to a burnt-out stator, and a reduction in the station's daily peaking
capacity because the pondage has been filled with silt. NEC has been aware
of these problems and of the urgent need to carry out plant maintenance.
Realizing that this maintenance is essential for the system to have a proper
capacity margin, it has recently ordered essential spares. Also, for routine
maintenance of civil works at hydro power stations, the Electricity Depart-
ment has purchased maintenance equipment with funds provided by OECF. Main-
tenance programs are essential and to ensure that this work is carried out,
an agreement was reached that a plant maintenance program for rehabilitating
the existing hydro plants, satisfactory to :DA, would be furnished to IDA by
March 31, 1985 and thereafter taking into account the Association's com-
ments, if any, the said program would be implemented.



-11-
System Losses
1.46    System losses in Nepal are high.  In FY83 total Nepal losses 1/
amounted to 30.5% of total generation. Following is a breakdown of losses by
region:
Central Region                 -   31.8%
Western Region                  -   31.0%
Eastern Region                  -   21.3%
Mid & Far Western Regions       -   19.0%
An analysis of losses in the NEC system is as follows:
Self Consumption               -    4.0%
(including station use)
Transmission                    -    5.0%
Distribution                    -   22.5%
Total               31.5%
1.47    ADB, in its second power loan to Nepal, provided technical assistance
for a comprehensive study by a specialist, a distribution engineer from
British Electricity International, UK, to analyze the incidence of high
distribution loss. He has visited Nepal, completed his study and has sub-
mitted recommendations to NEC and ADB.
1.48    According to the study, most of the losses occur in the distribution
system of the Bagmati Zone, which with the Naryani and Janakpur Zones form
the Central Region. In terms of consumption, the Bagmati Zone accounts for
75% of the Central Region's energy, 60% of NEC's energy, and 55% of Nepal's
total energy; thus, it is the maior area consuming electricity. A breakdown
of system losses in each zone of the Central Region operated by NEC is given
below:
Bagmati  Zone      -    36.0%
Naryani  Zone      -    13.5%
Janakpur Zone      -    23.0%
1.49    The high losses in the distribution system of the Bagmati Zone are
mainly due to improper metering and theft of electricity. Based on the
recommendations of the specialist, NEC has recruited 46 appropriate staff,
purchased two vehicles and 7,200 meters. Also, enactment of by-laws dealing
with theft is being undertaken. NEC's program calls for metering all
unmetered consumers by January 31, 1985, checking and sealing meters of all
large consumers and all domestic consumers by June 30, 1988 and rectifying
and recalibrating all meters by June 30, 1990. NEC has started with the
Bagmati zone. During negotiations, targets for reducing losses were agreed:
in the Central Region losses to be reduced to 25% by FY86 and to 20% by FY91;
the overall losses in Nepal to be reduced to 24% by FY86 and to 18% by FY91.
The loss reduction program would include the above items of work.  It was
also agreed that the above specialist would be appointed by December 1984
1/ The definition for losses is given in Annex 6.



-12-
and, after his review, a revised comprehensive program will be submitted to
IDA by July 15, _185.  Funds have been provided for this specialist under the
proposed project.
1.50    In order to reduce technical losses in the distribution system, NEC
is strengthening and upgrading its local distribution system. Under a
Japanese Government grant of 1,500 million Yen, substantial improvements have
been made in the Kathmandu distribution system during FY82. Another grant of
2,100 million Yen for the second stage of improvements has been negotiated
and these works are planned to be commissioned by the end of 1984 (para
3.23). Apart from the Kathmandu valley, disitribution facilities are also
being strengthened in other areas.  ADB's Third Power Project has provided a
loan of US$2.6 million for the Biratnagar (Eastern Region) distribution
system and US$1.92 million for the Birganj and Janakpur areas (Central
Region). These works are likely to be compLeted by June 1986. The
strengthening of the local distribution sysl:ems of the major load centers
should enable technical losses to also be reduced, making it possible to
realize the targets stated above.
II.   EXECUTING AGENCY AND THE BENEFICIARY
A. Executing Agency
2.01    It has been the practice of HMG to establish separate organizations,
known as development boards, to execute large, complex projects requiring
close coordination with contractors and engineering consultants. The Minis-
ter, Ministry Water Resources, is usually Chairman of the Board which has
served to facilitate the overall execution cf the project, including being
able to expedite decisions through Government and to gather a cohesive
project team to focus full time on the project.
2.02    The Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Development Board (MHDB) would be the
executing agency responsible for constructing the proposed project. Upon
completion, the facilities would be transferred to the Beneficiary (para
2.05) for operation and maintenance. The debt incurred in building the plant
would also be passed on to the Beneficiary for servicing (para 4.21). This
arrangement would be the same as that used in constructing the Kulekhani
Hydroelectric Power Project where the Kulekhani Hydroelectric Development
Board was the executing agency.
2.03    MHDB has been  officially established by Gazzette Notification No.
32, dated December 8, 1981. The Board members consist of the Minister and
Assistant Minister, Ministry of Water Resources as Chairman and Vice Chair-
man, respectively. The other seven members are representatives of the Minis-
tries of Water Resources, Finance, and Law and Justice; a member of the
National Planning Commission; the General Manager, NEC; Chief Engineer, ED
and the Project Manager, MHDB as Member Secretary. Once the NEC and ED are
absorbed by the new Authority (para 2.05), the General Manager, NEC and Chief
Engineer, ED will be replaced in the MHDB Board by appropriate officers from
the new Authority.



-13-
2.04    A Project Manager has been appointed and the staffing of MHDB is near
completion. The staff will total about 280, of which 170 will be involved
with the technical aspects of the work and the remainder with administration,
accounts and support work. The technical staff will include 35 engineers,
many of whom will be seconded from the ED or, after the reorganization, from
the new entity. The organizational structure includes five divisions/
sections: (a) Project Evaluation and Planning Division; (b) Civil Works
Division; (c) Electromechanical Division; (d) Accounts Section and (e)
Administration, Stores and Procurement Section (see organization chart). MHDB
has already started some preliminary work (para 3.20). The size and com-
plexity of the project requires engineering consultants to be heavily
involved in its execution (para 3.18). During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that HMG would maintain the MHDB with adequate staff, funds, powers
and responsibility in order to carry out the works under the project. Such
obligation will terminate six months after the works are handed over to the
new Authority.
B. The Beneficiary
2.05    The Beneficiary would be a new Authority which is in the process of
being established under a reorganization of the Nepal power sector (para
1.19). It will be known as the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA). Draft
legislation calls for it to be an autonomous and corporate body. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that it will absorb the operations of NEC
and ED, as well as the work of the development boards, except that those
Boards presently executing projects will continue with the execution through
to completion, after which future work of this nature would be carried out by
the new Authority. Except for large, complex power projects involving neigh-
boring countries and those small power projects carried out under the juris-
diction of the local panchayats, the new Authority will be responsible for
the power sector on a national basis and will plan, construct, operate and
maintain generating stations, transmission lines, distribution systems, and
all associated facilities. This consolidation will serve to improve coor-
dination between the planning, construction and operating functions, and
thereby strengthen the sector's overall operations.
2.06    Under ADB's Fourth Power Project, a Memorandum of Understanding with
HMG outlines the basic organizational structure of the new Authority. It
shows four functional units: (a) generation and transmission; (b) distribu-
tion and customer service; (c) rural electrification (including isolated
mini-hydro projects) and (d) planning, evaluation and finance. The Board
would consist of eleven members, including a Chairman on a part-time basis,
supported by a full-time Vice Chairman. Four members of the Board would be
the officers in charge of each of the four operating units. Other members
would be determined by HMG. A condition of effectiveness of ADB's Fifth
Power Project requires HMG's approving the legislation for establishing the
new entity. Also, under ADB's Fifth Project HMG has agreed that NEA would
commence operations by April 30, 1985.
2.07    The reorganization along the lines indicated is a sound decision for
Nepal. IDA has fully supported it and has been urging HMG to move ahead with
it. There has been close coordination between ADB and IDA in all aspects of



-14-
this effort. In parallel with ADB's covenant requiring that the new
Authority commence operations by April 30, [985, during negotiations agree-
ment was reached that the new Authority wilL be established with the powers
and functions, and organizational structure (paras 2.05 and 2.06) by such a
date to enable it to commence operations by April 30, 1985.
2.08    Consultants have been assisting HMG in implementing the reorganiza-
tion. Coopers and Lybrand (financed by ADB), under the first stage of their
assignment, have completed the institutionaL and organizational review.
Under the second stage, C & L have been concentrating on the internal
organizational structure and the design of Taanagement and accounting systems
and procedures for which operating manuals are being prepared. A team of
four experts (an institutional/management specialist, two accounting/
financial experts and a valuation engineer), involving 56 manmonths, has been
carrying out the first and second stages of the work, assisted from time to
time by specialists from the consultant's headquarters. The institutional/
management specialist worked with HMG in formulating a comprehensive schedule
for implementing the reorganization, including the preparation of draft
legislation for the new authority. The accounting/financial specialists have
been assisting in developing accounting syst:ems appropriate for the new
utility. The valuation engineer has been stLpervising a physical inventory of
all fixed assets, materials and stocks of the NEC and ED so that an asset
accounting system may be established. This will be the basis for developing
appropriate depreciation schedules and also for formulating a policy for a
rational valuation and, as appropriate, reva,luation of assets. The second
stage is now nearing completion. The third stage of C & L's work, which has
been contracted and which will also be funded by ADB, consists of 22 man-
months of work in helping to implement the new systems and in training of
staff prior to the new entity commencing operations. Finally, under ADB's
Fifth Power Project, an additional 31 manmonths of consulting services are
being made available for expatriate adviser(s) to assist the new utility at
the senior level.
2.09    A program for strengthening the technical operations has been iden-
tified through a study carried out by the CIDA team in Nepal. The program is
in coniunction with establishing a training center for the power sector,
which is to be financed under the proposed project (paras 3.24-3.28).
Audit
2.10    Nepal's constitution stipulates that the Auditor General, who is
appointed by his Majesty, is responsible for auditing the accounts of Govern-
ment corporations and authorities. Under the Kulekhani project, the AG
carried out the audit for the project. With respect to the MHDB project
accounts, this arrangement will continue. With respect to NEC, the AG has
been delegating the work of performing the auadit to an independent auditing
firm. This arrangement is satisfactory and is expected to continue with the
new Authority once it is established. This was confirmed during nego-
tiations. NEC completes the preparation of its accounts in about four
months. The AG however takes an additional eight months, including the three
months it takes for the outside independent audit, before finally approving
the audited accounts. The reason given for the delay is a shortage of AG
staff. During negotiations, agreement was reached that (a) project accounts
of MHDB will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor



-15-
acceptable to IDA, and a report of such audit furnished to IDA not later than
six months of the end of the fiscal year, and (b) the audited financial
statements of the new Authority together with the full audit report will be
submitted to IDA within twelve months of the end of the fiscal year. In
order to enable IDA to monitor the financial performance within a reasonable
period, an understanding was also reached that the unaudited financial state-
ments of the new Authority will be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of the fiscal year. These arrangements are satisfactory.
Government Arrears
2.11    Private consumers have been settling their electricity bills satis-
factorily, while the Government has been delinquent in settling its accounts.
Based on NEC's records, as of the end of FY83 government arrears, including
those for street lighting, amounted to NRs 12.8 million, which compares to
government billings for that year of about NRs 6.8 million. The government
arrears amounted to 39% of NEC's total arrears though government billings are
only about 8% of total billings.
2.12    The Ministry of Finance agrees that in order to solve this problem,
arrangements need to be made for ensuring that government agencies and
departments pay on time, including treating them like any other consumer and
disconnecting service for non-payment. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that by March 31, 1985, HMG will furnish to IDA for its review and
comments a proposal of methods/procedures for ensuring that Government users
pay their electricity bills by no later than two months after receiving the
bill and, taking into account IDA's comments, commence implementing such
methods and procedures in a manner satisfactory to IDA, so as to ensure that
the bills will be paid within two months of receiving them. Regarding
government arrears owing NEC, those arrears pertaining to government agencies
and departments have now been settled, and those pertaining to street light-
ing will be settled by August 15, 1984.
Dividends
2.13    The new Authority will require all available funds in order to be
able to meet its operating expenses, service its debt and finance a portion
its capital expansion. Although in the immediate future it will not be
constructing generation and transmission plant (the existing development
boards will continue with this construction until their respective projects
are completed--para 2.05), it should nevertheless be expected to begin con-
tributing to the financing of such plant. These funding requirements should
be met before paying any dividends. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that there will be no declaration of dividends before the completion
of the Marsyangdi project and then only after the aforementioned requirements
for internal funding are met, including the new Authority financing not less
than 30% of its capital expansion.
Insurance
2.14    An appropriate insurance program for NEC that would be consistent
with sound public utility practice was discussed with the NEC General
Manager. He advised that he would request the National Insurance Corporation



-16-
of Nepal to review the matter in order that a recommendation for an accept-
able insurance program could be presented.  Should this not prove satisfac-
tory, the General Manager would seek outside assistance.  During nego-
tiations, agreement was reached that the new Authority will undertake to
develop an insurance program consistent with sound public utility practice
and that a proposal of the program will be submitted to IDA for review and
comment by June 30, 1985, and thereafter, tsking into account IDA's comments,
implement the insurance program in a timely manner satisfactory to IDA.
Training
2.15    There is no formalized training program in the power sector.  The
training that does take place is more on an ad hoc basis with counterpart
staff being attached to consultants and contractors working on projects, a
few staff being attached to the CIDA team working in an advisory capacity to
the Ministry of Water Resources, and the occasional participant selected to
attend seminars abroad. HMG recognizes the need for establishing training
programs to upgrade staff essential for operating and maintaining the expand-
ing power system in Nepal. In order to establish a training function as an
integral part of the power sector's operations, a facility for practical
training in technologies involved in an electric power system is required.
This is being provided under the project (paras 3.24-3.27).
2.16    Other training under the project would be in conjunction with the
work of the consulting engineer and contractor. The draft agreement of the
consulting engineer provides for ten engineers to receive training in Germany
for periods of from 1 to 6 months in such sulbjects as assessing the
feasibility of hydroelectric projects, design of hydraulic structures and
civil works, construction management of hydroelectric projects, erection and
installation of equipment and operation of hydroelectric projects. The
contractor's contract will include a provision for training local staff at
the construction site in accordance with a pre-agreed program. Provision
will also be made for the training of engineers in the workshops of contrac-
tors during the manufacturing and testing of equipment. Finally, training
will also be carried out in conjunction with the work of the Coopers and
Lybrand consultants (para 2.08), whose assignment includes the establishing
of a training program concurrently with their developing improved systems and
procedures.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description aid Oblectives
3.01    The Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power Project is a run-of-river project,
located on the Marsyangdi River, a tributory of the Trisuli River which
drains the Gandaki basin in Central Nepal (IBRD map 16928R). The project is
about 110 km west of Kathmandu and is accessible either from the Kathmandu-
Mugling-Pokhara highway or from the Hetauda-Bharatpur-Mugling road. The
project is designed to develop the potential of the Marsyangdi River on a 13
km stretch where a gross head of about 90 m is available.



-17-
3.02    The project would divert the waters of the Marsyangdi River into a
tunnel for the generation of power. Being a run-of-river scheme, the project
will not alter the daily volume of water flow to India. The Association is
satisfied that the project would not adversely affect the interests of India.
The installed generating capacity consisting of three units, each rated at 23
MW, has been designed keeping in view the low flows during dry winter months
(para 7 of Annex 13). The total annual energy based on monthly average flows
that would be available from the project is estimated at 462.5 GWh (Table 4
of Annex 23), out of which 357 GWh is estimated to be consumed in the system
(Table 2 of Annex 23). The firm annual energy based on 95% probability would
be 209 GWh. The project would meet additional peak demand of the grid system
up to 69 MW during winter 1/ and 66 MW during summer. The river flow data is
available only for the last 10 years. It is therefore difficult to calculate
the reduction in energy on occurrence of a dry year. However, it is
estimated that within a return period of 10 years, minimum 1 day duration low
flow could be 33.6 cu m/sec as compared to 35.6 cu m/sec on 95% probability
(Annex 13). The average annual flow could go down to 186 cu m/sec in place
of normal estimated flow of 209 cu m/sec. Energy output could be reduced by
about 6% in winter months. On the occurrence of a drier year, there would be
further loss in energy production. Should such a situation arise, existing
diesels or regulated release of stored water from Kulekhani reservoir would
be able to meet the shortfall. Alternatively, load shedding could be
resorted to. The extent of shortage would depend upon the drought severity.
For details of the project see Annexes 11 and 12. For project details of
hydrology and sedimentation, geology and seismicity related to the project,
refer to Annexes 13 and 14, respectively.
Project Components
3.03    The principal components of the project are:
(a) diversion works including the settling basin which will be used
as diversion channel during construction but will be required
for settling of suspended sediments later on;
(b) a 98 meter wide gated overflow type diversion weir with 5 radial
gates;
(c) a 44 meter wide flushing structure with 2 radial gates for flushing
sediment from the settling basin;
(d) an intake structure for the headrace tunnel;
1/ Sixty-nine MW is based on 95% probability flow available during month of
December and the 1.5 million cubic meters available for daily pondage.
Under one unit operation, the maximum output would be 26 MW. Under three
unit operation, the maximum output would be 69 MW during winter and 66 MW
during summer, the output of each unit being 23 and 22 MW, respectively.
The variation is due to different head losses and different tailrace
levels under varying river flow conditions.



-18-
(e) a concrete-lined circular headrace tunnel 7,100 meters long with a
diameter of 6.4 meters;
(f) a surge tank;
(g) a 75 meter steel-lined pressure shaft with a 5 meter diameter;
(h)  three tailrace tunnels of 30, 35 and 40 meters;
(i) a semi-underground power station with 3 units of 23 MW each;
(j) an outdoor 132 kV switchyard at Marsyangdi, extension of 132 kV
substations at Bharatpur, and upgrading of the 66 kV Balaju
substation to 132 kV;
(k)  two 132 kV transmission lines from (i) Marsyangdi to Balaju (90 km)
and (ii) from Marsyangdi to Bharatpur (40 kmi);
(1) extension of local distribution system at Kathmandu; and
(m) consulting engineer and technical assistance.
Project Objectives
3.04    The obiectives are:
(a) to meet the forecasted demand for eliectricity in Nepal up to
FY93; and
(b) to strengthen the power sector in Nepal.
B. Background of Project Investigation and Formulation
3.05    With the assistance of various donors, there have been investigations
of various potential hydroelectric sites on the Marsyangdi River since 1966.
The present site was first identified by a team of Chinese engineers in 1966
who proposed a run-of-river project with a power station of about 40 MW
capacity using a canal of about 6 km and a 57 meter head. This proposal was
slightly modified by the ED in 1974 which proposed a power station of 36 MW
using a head of 51 meters through a 4.5 km long water conveyor system con-
sisting of canal, tunnel and pipeline. Also, there have been several addi-
tional studies in which the high dam alternatives on the Marsyangdi River
were investigated.
3.06    In 1980, the Water and Energy Commission compared 13 development
programs to meet load demands up to FY91. These programs included 6 possible
hydro projects and also various thermal (coal, gas, diesel) options. Based
on this economic comparison, the Marsyangdi run-of-river project was selected
as the next project.



-19-
3.07    The feasibility report of the proiect was prepared by consultants
LI and SMEC in 1979 (para 3.18). In 1981, HMG entrusted the task of prepara-
tion of detailed engineering designs and tender documents to the same con-
sultants. The funds for the feasibility study were provided by GTZ, and
KfW provided funds for preparing detailed engineering design and tender
documents.
3.08    Before finalizing the present design, various possible sites were
inspected by the consulting engineer. Three alternative weir sites and six
power station sites were examined in the area of the present site. As an
alternative to a tunnel, a canal was also considered. In order to be able to
get additional water from Darondi Khola (a small tributory of Marsyangdi)
during dry winter months, the possibility of shifting the weir to a site
downstream of the confluence of the Marsyangdi River with Darondi Khola
(about 10 km downstream of the present site) was a:Lso examined. The
geological conditions of all sites were found to be less favorable than the
site finally selected for the proposed project. The power potential at other
places was also found to be lower than the proposed project site because of
smaller head.
3.09    The number of generating units chosen is three, keeping in view the
following considerations: limits of the heaviest single weight for transport,
requirement of capacity margin for forced outage and planned maintenance,
efficiency of the units under low water discharge and, finally the increase
in the cost of the project with the increase in the number of units.
C. Cost Estimates
3.10    The project is estimated to cost NRs 5,173.1 million (US$323.3 mil-
lion equivalent), including a foreign exchange component of US$248.4 million.
Details of estimated costs are shown in Annex 15, including supporting
tables, and are summarized below:



-20-
Foreign
Description          Foreign    Local   Toltal   Foreign   Local  Total  Exchange
---ONRs mlllion)-=            ---(US$ million)--
Preliminary Cost &
Administrative Expenditure
1. Preliminary works
including land
acquisition etc.           40.3       47.0      87.3     2.5    2.9       5.4      46.1
2. Administrative ex-
penditure by MHDB           8.0       43.4      51.4     0.5    2.7       3.2      15.5
Civil Works (Lot I)
3. Site installation I       101.6       18.0    119.6       6.3    1.2      7.5      84.9
4. Diversion works           109.1       48.8    157.9       6.8    3.1      9.9      69.1
5. Diversion weir, flush-
ing structure and
intake structure          510.4      148.6    659.0    31.9    9.3    41.2        77.5
Civil Works (Lot II)
6. Site Installation II    308.6         54.8    363.4    19.3    3.4    22.7         84.9
7. Head race tunnel,
surge tank                700.9      265.5    966.4    43.8   16.6    60.4        72.5
8. Pressure shaft, tail
race, power station,
switch yard               159.7       74.7    234.4    10.0    4.6    14.6        68.1
9. Permanent roads and
outdoor works               9.4        5.9      15.3     0.6    0.4       1.0     61.8
Equipment
10. Hydraulic steel
structures                 232.5      30.1    262.6    14.6    1.9    16.5        88.5
11. Mechanical equipment       120.6      24.0    144.6       7.6    1.5      9.1      83.4
12. Electrical equipment       297.3      55.2    352.5    18.6    3.5    22.1         84.3
Transmission Works
13. Transmission lines          88.0      44.8    132.8       5.5    2.8      8.3      66.3
14. Substations & Local        135.2      36.7    171.9       8.4    2.2    10.6       79.2
distribution system



-21-
/a                          /a       Foreign
Description          Foreign    Local   Total   Foreign   Local  Total  Exchange
-(N Rs million)                  (US$ million)%
Consulting Engineer
1D. Consulting Engineer
during construction
supervision                120.4       -       120.4      7.5     -       7.5    100.0
Technical Assistance
16. Panel of Experts &
Claims Specialist           17.2       -        17.2      1.1     -       1.1    100.0
17. Supervision of system
loss reduction program       1.7       -         1.7      0.1     -       0.1    100.0
19. Catchment management
plan                         3.4       -         3.4      0.2     -       0.2    100.0
20. Training for power
sector                     43.0         -       43.0      2.7     -       2.7    100.0
Total Base Cost          3,007.3    897.5   3,904.8   188.0   56.1   244.1
Contin encies
Physical  b             413.4    124.8       538.2    25.8    7.8    33.6
Price Ic                553.8    176.3       730.1    34.6   11.0    45.6
Total          3,974.5  1,198.6   5,173.1   248.4   74.9   323.3
/a 'Duties and taxes are included in local costs and amount to NRs 253.1 million
equivalent to US$15.81 million. These are based on contract taxes at 5.0% of
total contract price and custom duty at 1% of CIF price of imported equipment
and material.
/b Physical contingencies as a percentage of base cost are provided at 20% for
head race tunnel, 15% for other civil works, 10% for equipment, transmission
lines, local distribution, substations and 5% for consulting engineer.
/c Price contingencies are provided as follows:
Year           1984   1985   1986   1987   1988  1989   1980
Foreign (%)    7.7    7.2    6.5    6.0    6.0   6.0    6.0
Local   (%)    9.0    8.0    7.0    6.0    6.0   6.0    6.0
3.11    Cost estimates are based on mid-1984 prices.  The estimates have been
prepared by the consulting engineer after detailed site investigations and
have been reviewed by the panel of experts. The transmission system for
connecting the proposed Marsyangdi power station with the grid has been
designed after detailed system studies. Keeping in view the uncertainties
involved in the geology (para 6 of Annex 14), physical contingencies of 20%
for the headrace tunnel have been provided as compared to 15% for other civil
works. Total physical contingencies amount to 13.8% of the base cost. Price
contingencies amount to 16.4% of the base cost, including physical contingen-
cies. Exchange rate of US$ 1 = NRs 16.0 has been assumed.



-22-
D. Project Financing
3.12    The finances arranged are shown in the following table:
Source                    Amount                        Purpose
(million) Equivalent
US$(million)
IDA               US$          101.19           i) Civil works, Lot II
(foreign cost)
1.0          ii) Consulting Engineer (see
para 3.14 for details)
4.81         iii) Technical Assistance (see
para 3.14 for details)
Sub-total   107.00
KFW              DM  186.3      54.57 /a        i) Equipment (foreign & part
of local cost)
12.65          ii) Substations and local dis-
tribution.system (foreign
and local cost)
7.30        iii) Consulting Engineer (see
para 3.14 for details)
Sub-total    74.52
SFD              SRls 86.0      24.5            i) Civil works, Lot I (part of
foreign cost)
0.5           ii) Consulting Engineer (see
para 3.14 for details)
Sub-total    25.0
KFAED              KD  6.0      20.5            i) Civil works, Lot I (part of
foreign cost)
0.5           ii) Consulting Engineer (see
para 3.14 for details)
Sub-total    21.0
/a  Based on exchange rate of US$1 - DM 2.5
- SRls 3.44
- KD 0.286



-23-
Source                    Amount                        Purpose
(million) Equivalent
US$(million)
HMG               NRs           28.05           i) Civil works, Lot II (local
cost)
29.77          ii) C:Lvil works, Lot I (local cost
& part of foreign cost)
2.08         iii) Equipment and local distribu-
tion (part of local cost)
10.54          iv) Transmission lines (foreign
and local cost)
5.73           v) Preliminary works (foreign
and local cost)
3.81         vi) Administrative expenditure
(foreign and local cost)
15.81        vii) Local duties and taxes
Sub-total    95.79
Total        323.31
E. Procurement
3.13    The following table shows the procurement arrangements:
Project Elements                            Procurement Method
ICB      LCB      Others /a       N.A.        Total
-  - US$ Million
Preliminary works
(including land
acquisition)                 -       5.33        0.4         0.22 /b       5.95
Administrative expenditure   -          -           -          3.81          3.81
Civil works, Lot I            74.77     -           -          3.96 /b      78.73
Civil works, Lot II          129.24     -           -          6.84 /b    136.08
(101.19)/c
Equipment                      -        -         56.65        3.40 /b      60.05
Substations and local          -        -         12.65        0.77 /b      13.42
distribution
Transmission lines             -         -        10.54        0.62 /b      11.16
Consulting engineer            -                   9.3           -           9.3
(1.0)/c
Technical assistance           -        -          4.81                      4.81
(4.81)/c
323.31
/a Tied procurement and consulting services.
/b Local duties and taxes payable by HMG.
/c Figures in parenthesis show IDA funds.



-24-
3.14    Preliminary works consisting  of offices, residences, water supply
and electricity at the proiect site (US$5.73 million) are already under
execution with the funds provided by HMG. Tihis includes US$0.40 million
which is the estimated compensation cost for land acquisition. Administrative
expenditure consists of the salary and other incidental expenses of staff of
MHDB and will be financed by HMG. Civil works have been split in 2 lots.
The costs of Lot I, consisting of the diversLon weir, flushing structure,
intake structure, diversion works and site installation (required for Lot I)
is estimated at US$74.77 million, out of which foreign portion is US$60.48
million. US$45 million will be cofinanced by SFD, KFAED. Cofinancing for
remaining portion will be arranged by HMG. ISFD, KFAED will consider increas-
ing their cofinancing after opening of bids. The contract will be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) as per guidelines of
SFD, KFAED. The foreign cost of Lot II, consisting mainly of the headrace
tunnel, pressure shaft and permanent roads, estimated at US$101.19 million
out of total cost of US$129.24 million will be financed by IDA. The contract
will be awarded on the basis of ICB in accorcdance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. The foreign and local cost of equipment (hydraulic steel struc-
tures, mechanical equipment and electrical equipment) is estimated at
US$56.65 million, of which the foreign portion is US$51.37 million. Whole of
the foreign portion and part of local cost, amounting to US$54.57 million
would be financed by KfW. KfW would also finance the total cost of the
substations and local distribution system estimated at US$12.65 million. The
contracts will be awarded after inviting bids from suppliers within the
Federal Republic of Germany. HMG is arrangirng funds from outside sources,
including ADB, for the transmission lines estimated at a total cost of
US$10.54 million. During negotiations, it was agreed that HMG will obtain
necessary financing for these works by not later than June 30, 1986. The
fees of the consulting engineer, amounting to US$9.3 million, will be
cofinanced by KfW (US$7.3 million), IDA (US$1.0 million), SFD (US$0.5 mil-
lion) and KFAED (US$0.5 million). The components of technical assistance
consisting of the panel of experts fees (US$1.27 million), the cost of the
Marsyangdi catchment management plan (US$0.25 million), a power sector train-
ing program (US$3.16 million) and supervision of loss reduction program
(US$0.13 million) will be financed by IDA in accordance with IDA guidelines.
The bidders for civil works are in the process of being prequalified. A
price preference of 7.5% will be given to local contractors if they apply
individually or as a joint venture. The design and technical specifications
to be incorporated in the bidding documents have been prepared by the con-
sulting engineer and reviewed by the panel of experts. In addition to two
bidding package for civil works, there probably will be one bidding package
for each of the following items:
1. Hydraulic steel structure
2. Mechanical equipment
3. Electrical equipment
4. Substations and local distribution system
5. Transmission lines
It is estimated that the bidding documents for civil works will be ready for
issue by June 1984.



-25-
Contract Review
3.15    There would be one bidding package for Lot II of the civil works,
which will be financed by IDA and is estimated to to cost US$129.24 million
equivalent (including contingencies). This package would be reviewed by IDA
prior to award of contract. Therefore, there would be 100% review of the Lot
II civil works contract. Copies of the contract for equipment, transmission
lines and substations, financed out of non-IDA funds, would be sent to IDA
after contract award for information.
F. Disbursement
3.16    Disbursement under the proposed IDA Credit: would be in respect of Lot
II of civil works, consulting engineer and for technical assistance as shown
below:
Category            % of Expenditure to be Financed
1.  Civil Works (Lot II)          100% of foreign expenditures
2.  Consulting Engineer           10.75% of foreign expenditure
3.  Technical Assistance          100% of foreign expenditure
3.17    The project implementation program prepared by the consulting
engineer (Annex 16) was discussed in detail with the panel of experts, KfW
and MHDB during appraisal. The Consulting Engineer suggested an implementa-
tion period of 42 months. This was considered as optimistic; therefore, a
period of 52 months was adopted after detailed analysis. The most critical
item in the project is a tunnel of about 7 km length for which 37 months have
been allowed. Keeping in view various types of rocks likely to be
encountered during tunnelling, the panel of experts had recommended a period
of 763 working day (32.5 months after allowing for Sundays and holidays).
This was based on an average rate of tunnelling achievable. The project
schedule however provides for period of 37 months allowing for unforseen
contingencies. The overall schedules of 52 months is therefore realistic.
This compares with the recently commissioned Kulekhani Proiect where civil
work contract was awarded in August 1977 and the power station was commis-
sioned in April 1982 involving a period of 55 months. Moreover, for the
Marsyangdi Project a panel of experts was appointed in the early stages of
project design and substantial preliminary work has been completed at the
site. The disbursement schedule is based on 52 months implementation plan.
A comparison of disbursements has been made between an average profile of
eighteen IDA- financed hydroelectric power projects (commissioned between
FY73 to FY83) and the proposed project. This comparison is shown below:



-26-
Cumulative    Cumulative        Cumulative
Disbursement   Disbursement    Disbursement
(ProJect)       (Project)   (Average Profile)
(US$ million)         %                 %
1984/85
December 31, 1984
June     30, 1985              14.7             13.7               1.0
1985/86
December 31, 1985              27.7             25.9               9.0
June     30, 1986              40.7             38.1             21.0
1986/87
December 31, 1986              53.7             50.2             34.0
June     30, 1987              66.7             62.4             48.0
1987/87
December 31, 1987              76.3             71.3             62.0
June     30, 1988              85.9             80.0             74.0
1988/89
December 31, 1988              91.0             85.0             84.0
June     30, 1989              96.1             90.0             92.0
1989/90
December 31, 1989             101.6             95.0             97.0
June     30, 1990             107.0            100.0            100.0
For the first 5 semesters, the proposed disbursements are expected to exceed
those of the profile. Preliminary work is already taking place, including
prequalification of the civil works contractor, so that payments would be
made soon after credit effectiveness for such items as the civil contractor's
advance payment, mobilization fee, constructLon of the contractor's camp.
Later, the disbursements are expected to slow down and follow the profile
more closely. It is expected that by about ithe end of 1988, when the first
unit of the power station is near commissioning, about 85.0% of the Credit
would have been disbursed, about 90% would bes disbursed by June 1989 when all
three units are commissioned. The remaining 10.0%, representing such pay-
ments as claims, payments for remaining work, outstanding payments and reten-
tion fees is likely to be disbursed by June 1990. Thus, 100% of the Credit
is expected to be disbursed in eleven semesters, which compares to the
profile. There have been only three IDA financed hydroelectric projects
completed in South Asia. This data base is insufficient and therefore a
comparison has not been made with profiles of projects in South Asia.
G. Implementation
Engineering Services
3.18    MHDB has decided that the joint venture of Lahmeyer International of
the Federal Republic of Germany (LI) and Snowy Mountains Engineering Corpora-
tion (SMEC) of Australia would be the consulting engineers for construction



-27-
supervision. This loint venture carried out the feasibility studies and
detailed engineering for the project, and were financed by KfW after being
selected from consultants within Germany. This selection is acceptable and
meets IDA's guidelines.  A provision of US$7.5 million (ex-luding contingen-
cies) has been made in the project estimate to cover 701 manmonths of work,
of which 128 are for local consultants and 573 are for expatriates. The
costs are based on a draft agreement submitted by the consulting engineer to
HMG in September 1982. This agreement is now being revised.
3.19    A panel of four experts consisting of (a) a hydrologist, (b) an
engineering geologist, (c) a geo-technical engineer, and (d) a civil engineer
has also been established by MHDB to review the design and safety aspects of
the project and to make periodic reviews during construction. This panel has
met four times , twice at Kathmandu during July 1982 and Ocvtober 1982 to
review the design, method of construction, implementation schedule and cost
estimates prepared by LI and twice at Karlsruhe Universit': (West Germany)
during May 1983 and August 1983 to review the hydraulic mudel test results.
In order to protect itself against claims from the contractors, MHDB intends
to employ a claims advisor. A provision of US$1.1 million has been made to
cover the cost of the panel and the claims advisor. Agreement was reached
that the claims advisor would be appointed by January 31, 1985, in accordance
with IDA's procedure so that he could assist HMG during contract nego-
tiations, and that the services of the panel and claims advisor would be
retained until project completion or such period thereafter as mutually
agreed.
3.20    The Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Development Board (MHDB) (paras 2.03 and
2.04) has already undertaken considerable preliminary work (land acquisition
at the project site, construction of houses and offices, access roads, water
supply, electricity supply, etc.) using HMG funds amounting to US$5.7 mil-
lion. About 50% of this amount is budgeted to be spent by the end of FY85,
when it is planned to complete the essential portion of these works before
contractors begin mobilizing at the site.
Ecology and Resettlemert
3.21    Various ecological aspects, such as erosion in the catchment area,
inundation of agricultural land, dislocation of huiman population and affects
on fish life cycle, have been studied in detail. It is expected that about
69 ha of land and 8 houses will have to be acquired affecting about 110 land
owners. About two ha of forest area will be submerged. To date seven houses
and 49 ha of land have been acquired. Compensation has already been paid to
land owners of 36 ha. MHDB has earmarked a sum of NRs 6.5 million (US$0.4
million) to meet compensation expenses.  MHDB has also undertaken to offer
employment to those displaced on a priority basis. It has been confirmed
that tribal people are not being dislocated. During negotiations, HMG fur-
nished a rehabilitation program for the dislocated persons. The project also
provides for US$200,000 for preparing a report for implementation of a Mar-
syangdi catchment management plan. This plan would outline various steps to
be taken, such as training of river banks and planting of trees and grass
required to reduce the erosion and transport of sediment to the project site.
The report would be prepared by consultants to be retained by HMG in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. An agreement was reached that the terms of
reference, short list of consultants and procedure for selection would be



-28-
furnished to the Association so as to appoint the consultants by December
1984. Based on the consultant's report and. with the approval of IDA, HMG
will adopt and commence to implement the plan by December 31, 1985.
3.22    In addition to land required at the power station site, land will
also be needed for extension of substations; and for transmission line towers.
An agreement was reached that the land acquisition process will be started
as and when needed and that HMG will furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights are available.
Local Distribution in the Kathmandu Valley
3.23    The present maximum demand in Kathmandu is 51 MW compared to 83 MW in
the whole of Nepal. It is expected that Kathmandu will continue to be a
maior load centre after commissioning of the Marsyangdi project. Substantial
improvements have been made in the Kathmandu distribution system during FY81
and FY82 and are likely to be made in FY84 with the help of grants provided
by OECF of Japan (para 1.50). The details of these works are given below:
Works Already Executed                   Works Planned in Next Program
(1981-82)                                     (1983-84)
1.  11 kV lines                  53.0 km    1.  11 kV lines               47.5 km
2.  L.T. lines                  119.0 km    2.  L.T. lines                116.0 km
3.  11 kV line reinforcement   33.0 km    3.  11 kV reinforcement           3.0 km
4.  Distribution transformer                 4.  Distribution trans-
capacity                   26.0 mvA          former capacity        28.0 mvA
5.  Cables (11 kV & L.T.)        11.0 km    5.  Cables(11 kV & L.T.)   25.0 km
It is foreseen that additional augmentation of the Kathmandu local distribu-
tion substations, not included in the OECF program of 1983-84, will be needed
by 1989, when the proposed project is commissioned. This will consist of
upgrading the existing 11 kV Balaju-Lainchaur line to 66 kV with a new 66 kV
substation at Lainchaur. This has been included in the project.
Training Facility
3.24    Under technical assistance, the project provides for establishing
such a facility along the lines recommended in a recent study carried out by
the CIDA team. (A copy of the study is part of the project documentation
file.) In determining the training needs, the study examined both the exist-
ing electric power system and its expected expansion over the next decade and
the required staffing to operate and maintain it. The study shows, and
senior NEC management agrees, that the most serious manpower problems lie in
the technician category and that a training program for this category is
especially needed. The technician category is that body of technical
specialists whose training and deployment lie between that of the tradesman
and the professional engineer, who directly supports engineers, can analyze
operations and maintenance problems and carry out the work. According to the
study, this category of technicians in the power sector numbers some 1,600
non-officer grades I-IV (supervisor-I, foreman-II, journeyman-III, hel-
per-IV). Of the 1,600, about 1,100 are in operations and maintenance and the
remainder in the design and construction divisions. While the plan is for



-29-
the proposed training program to focus on the technician categorv of staff.
it would not be wholly restricted to this group. There also would be scope
for training of financial and commercial staff as well as specialized and
refresher courses for engineers.
3.25     The objective of the training component is to establish in the power
sector a comprehensive, practical training facility as a center for formal-
ized, continuous :raining programs that will serve to upgrade the staff and
enable an overall system approach to be developed in dealing with Nepal's
growing and increasingly complex power system.
3.26    The cost for establishing the training center and operating it for a
period of three ye~ars is estimated at US$3.6 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$2.7 million (mid-1984 prices).  The foreign cost,
which would be financed under the project, would cover five specialists to be
domiciled in Neprl for three years (US$1.9 million), two vehicles, including
spare parts, (USi30,000) and training equipment (IJS$750,000). The local
costs, to be financed by HMG, amount to US$0.9 million and would finance the
building and housekeeping expenses for the three years. A project cost
estimate is shown at Annex 17.
3.27    The plan of action together with a timetable for establishing the
Center is:
(a)  HMG to appoint a training coordinator by not later than two
months from date of Credit effectiveness;
(b)  HMG to prepare a short list of firms (about four), from which to
call proposals, and to prepare terms of reference. The short
list, the invitations for proposals and terms of reference to be
submitted to IDA for approval by not later than four months from
date of Credit effectiveness;
(c) invitation by HMG to submit proposals to be issued by not later
than one month following the approval of Association of short
list under (b) above;
(d)  HMG to submit its recommendation for selection of consultants
by not later than six months after issue of invitations under
(c) above;
(e) the contract to be signed by not later than one month from date
of approval of Association;
(f) the consultants to arrive in Nepal and commence their work by not
later than two months after signing the contract.  At this time
the training center will commence operations in an existing
building supplied by HMG. A regular building designed for the
training center will be built and completed by not later than
twelve months from the time of arrival of consultants; and



-30-
(g) HMG to appoint counterpart staff to the consultants team to be
ready to join the team upon its arrival in Nepal. The counterpart
staff will take over the training center's operations from the
consultants team upon the latter's departure.
During negotiations agreement was reached that the plan of action for estab-
lishing the training center will be carried out in the time frame indicated
in (a) through (g) above.
Risks
3.28    The risks involved in the execution of the project could be in
respect of design, construction, project management, delays in supply of
essential items such as fuel, cement, steel, excessive claims and cost over-
runs. Steps taken to prevent these risks include the appointment of a panel
of experts to review the design and make periodic reviews during construction
(para 3.19), appointment of a claims advisor (para 3.19), provision of
appropriate physical contingencies (para 3.19), a well staffed executing
agency (MHDB) which, with the close assistance of the consulting engineer,
will manage the project and supervise the contractors (para 3.20). MHDB will
also draw upon the experience gained in executing the Kulekhani Project. The
most critical item in the project is the 7.1 km tunnel. Should exceptionally
poor geology be encountered, the project could be delayed. The panel of
experts, therefore, includes one geologist and one tunnelling specialist.
Further steps include the erection of a 33 kV line to the project site to
avoid dependency on diesel power generation, and construction of approach
roads to the construction camp and offices. The contractors, suppliers and
consultants will insure against physical risks to equipment during transport,
handling and erection and against third party risks. The individual works
during execution will also be insured against physical hazards. The
insurance will cover design defects in the civil works as well as in the
equipment. In view of these steps, HMG has decided that it would not appoint
a special consultant to carry out a risk ana:Lysis of the project. This
decision is acceptable.
Completion Report
3.29    HMG should undertake not later than six months after the closing
date, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose, to prepare and
furnish to the Association a Project Completion Report of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the project, its cost and the benefit derived from it,
the performance by the Beneficiary and the Association of their respective
obligations under the draft Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the objectives of the Credit.
IV. FINANCES
4.01    The following discussion on the financial aspects is confined to the
operations of NEC and would be applicable to the new Authority once it is
officially established.



-31-
Tariffs
4.02    There has been a reluctance in Nepal to raise tariffs even in the
face of increasing costs. Consequently, the present tariff level, averaging
81 paise/kWh (5.1 US cents), which was increased in May 1983 for the first
time in three years, is still on the low side and has been a major factor in
NEC's depressed earnings (para 4.14). This average tariff level compares to
the estimated average long-run marginal cost of NRs 2.50 per kWh.
4.03    The tariff schedule consists of seven categories:  domestic, commer-
cial, industrial, irrigation, transport, street lig'hting and bulk supply.
The tariff has a two-part structure consisting of a demand (kW) charge and an
energy (kWh) charge for commercial and industrial consumers; there is an
increasing block tariff for domestic consumers, and bulk electricity export
to India is charged at 14 Indian paisa per kWh under a special agreement.
(A summary of tariffs is at Annex 18.)
4.04    In order to achieve financial targets and objectives, tariff levels
need to be raised and the schedules carefully restructured taking into
account the marginal cost within consumer categories and the willingness and
ability of consumers to pay. The basis for classifying consumers needs to be
rationalized and, where possible, off-peak supply should be encouraged.
Also, a distinction is required between wet and dry periods to reflect dif-
ferences in cost of supply. It was in pursuance of these objectives that a
tariff study was undertaken by HMG's Energy and Water Commission, assisted by
consultants. The study's report presents an estimate of the marginal cost of
providing electric power by season and time of day, and applies marginal cost
to structuring tariffs for each customer class. In early 1983, NEC presented
a tariff proposal along these lines to HMG; however, the tariff as finally
approved addressed the level but not the differential for seasonal and time
of day costs. Tariffs were increased on average by 58% in May 1983 and then
three months later reduced by 2%, to 56% (para 4.07). In future tariff
adjustments, HMG should be urged to reflect the cost differentials.
Earnings Covenant
4.05    The earnings covenant under Credit 600-NEP (Kulekhani I) stipulates
that revenues of the Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC) be sufficient to
earn the following annual rates of return on average net fixed assets in
operation: FY76-77 - 2.5%, FY78-82 - 4.0%, FY83 and thereafter - 6.0%.
After the 6% target is reached, the position is to be jointly reviewed by HMG
and IDA with a view to reaching 8% as early as possible thereafter. Except
for FY80, NEC has not been meeting the earnings covenant (para 4.15).
4.06    In order for NEC to have reached a 6% rate of return in FY83 (FY83:
July 16, 1982 - July 15, 1983), tariffs would need to have been increased by
about 110%.  In discussions between senior HMG and Bank officials, it was
recognized that a single increase of this magnitude was not possible, and it
was informally agreed that, as an alternative, tariffs could be raised in
two tranches of 65% each, with the first increase to be implemented by
December 16, 1982, to be followed by the second within nine months, i.e., by
September 16, 1983. However, considering that it would likely prove too
difficult for HMG to effect a second 65% increase within nine months, it is
recommended that the interval be extended to eighteen months, at the latest.



-32-
4.07    Tariffs were eventually increased i'n May 1983 by 58%, and then
reduced three months later to 56%. 1/ Based on an interval of 18 months, the
second tranche of the increase would be int:roduced in November 1984 and would
be 65%, the increase required to enable a 6% rate of return to begin to be
achieved. Forecasts show that the 65% tariff increase would enable the rate
of return to rise from 1.5% in FY83 to between 5.1% and 5.7% during FY84-86,
and to 6% during FY87-89. 2/ A 65% increase, while substantial, is feasible
with a rationally structured tariff, and is required to enable the electric
utility operating the power sector to begin achieving financial viability.
4.08    The 56% tariff increase raised the average charge per kWh of 52 paise
(3.3 US cents) to 81 paise (5.1 US cents); the 65% increase would raise it to
NRs 1.34 (8.4 US cents at the present exchange rate). The reason for the
substantial charge per kWh required to earn even a 6% rate of return 3/ is
the higher than normal cost of building power infrastructure in Nepal. This
stems from the remoteness of the country and its difficult terrain and
geological conditions, poor communications, scattered load centers which are
widely distributed, lengthy high voltage transmission lines relative to the
size of loads and high cost of fossil fuel supplies for diesel generation.
4.09    During negotiations, agreement was reached that the second tranche of
the tariff increase, amounting to 65%, would become effective by not later
than November 30, 1984. Also, agreement wals reached that (i) tariffs would
continue to be maintained at a level to produce revenues sufficient to earn a
rate of return on average net plant in service of not less than 5.0% in FY85,
5.4% in FY86 and 6% thereafter, and (ii) before April 16 in each fiscal year
the operating authority will, on the basis of forecasts prepared, satisfac-
tory to IDA, review the adequacy of its rates to produce an annual rate of
return as set forth above in respect of the current year and the following
fiscal year, and furnish IDA the results of' the review. If the review shows
that the entity does not earn the required return, it will promptly take all
action to do so, including adjusting the level and structure of its tariffs.
In calculating the rate of return, the amount of income tax at the rate of
50% will be included as an operating expense.  Should HMG in the future lower
the rate of income tax, the required rate of return to be earned would be
adjusted upward in the same proportion as though the 50% rate of income tax
were in force. (See para 4.12 for a statement on that part of the earnings
1/ Under the previous Government, a tariff' increase of 58% became effective
in May 1983; but, under the new Government, it was reduced to 56% in
August 1983.
2/ FY means Borrower's fiscal year.
3/  It should be noted that while a 50% income tax is included as an operat-
ing expense, the tax is calculated on ret profit after interest charges.
Forecasts show that with the incurrence of debt, interest charges will
become sizeable so that though there is a tax effect it is not as sub-
stantial as it might appear. Calculating the rate of return net of the
tax would increase only by between 0.1% - 1.9% during the forecast
period.



-33-
covenant related to revaluation of assets.) This proposed earnings covenant
would supersede the existing agreement.
Revaluation of Assets
4.10   NEC does not revalue its assets nor is there a method presently estab-
lished for doing so. For the time being, the effect of not valuing the
assets at current prices would not be substantial, since expansion of the
power sector to any degree has only recently commenced. For example, under
the capital expansion programs, the value of gross fixed assets is shown to
increase from NRs 914 million in FY83 to NRs 10,205 at the end of FY91, or
eleven times, with 27% of the increase taking place in fiscal years 1984 and
1985, and 56% in FY89.
4.11   In considering revaluation, it should be borne in mind that to achieve
a 6% rate of return on historically valued assets, tariffs already will need
to be raised from the present average charge per kWh of 81 paisa (5.1 US
cents) to NRs 1.34 (8.4 US cents). This is considered a reasonable step in
a long-term strategy of increasing tariffs. In terms of a roughly revalued
rate base, this would be equivalent to about 4.5% rate of return. One of the
most important obiectives of the covenant is to maximize earnings, and the
present covenant provides for this.
4.12   While the principle of preserving values would require the earnings
covenant to be based on revalued assets, it is too early to consider a
revalued rate base until the new system of asset accounting and an agreed
method for revaluation is established. The consultants, which are assisting
HMG in designing the new accounting systems (para 2.08), will also be
developing a method for asset revaluation.
4.13    Under the circumstances, a requirement to revalue assets was not
included in the earnings covenant at this time. Instead, the revaluation
concept will be introduced through the consultants' work and implemented at a
later time. During negotiations, agreement was reached that assets would be
revalued, using a method satisfactory to IDA, by JulY 16, 1986. Once the
revaluation has been made, IDA will review it with HmG with the aim of agree-
ing on a rate of return based on revalued assets. Until such time as the rate
of return on revalued assets would be introduced the proposed covenant would
continue to be operative.
Past Operations
4.14   NEC income statements for FY79-83 are shown in Annex 19.  The follow-
ing table is a summary of past operating results:



-34-
Year ending July 15:            1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
GWh generated and purchased    182.0    195.0    201.2    228.5    333.9
GWh sold                         119.3    137.2    133.5    148.2    224.1
Station and office use (GWh)       3.4       3.7       3.6       3.6       4.1
System losses                      32%       28%       32%       34%       32%
----------------NRs Million--------------
Operating revenues                49.3      63.0      74.0      80.8    126.8
Operating expenses (incl.
income tax                       55.8      50.3      69.6      79.7    116.3
Net operating income after
tax and before interest          (6.5)    12.7        4.4       1.1     10.5
Rate base                        369.7    365.5    399.6    551.3    710.2
Rate of return                   (1.8%)    3.5%       1.1%      0.2%      1.5%
4.15    NEC's past operating results have been depressed.  As shown in the
foregoing table, NEC sustained an operating loss in FY79 and earned returns
of 3.5%, 1.1%, 0.2% and 1.5% in FYs '80, '81, '82 and '83 respectively. The
improvement in FY80 was a result of HMG discontinuing the royalty
surcharge 1/ and a 30% tariff increase, and satisfied the covenanted 4% rate
of return when, in accordance with the covenant, revenues were annualized to
reflect a tariff increase in that year.  The generally depressed financial
results have been due to low tariffs, high system losses and, before it was
discontinued, the royalty surcharge.
4.16    Despite weak operating results, NEC's finances have been manageable
because of its rather unique financial position of very little debt, a cash
flow just sufficient to finance modest distribution expansion, and no call on
earnings to finance generation and transmission plant. The background to
this unusual situation for a public utility is that the few additions for
generation and transmission plant have been provided through bilateral grants
and, when the asset has been transferred to NEC, it has been recorded as
equity. However this is now changing as credits/loans are being used to
finance capital expansion. Beginning with FY81, NEC/the new Authority will
increasingly incur debt in connection with assets transferred to it for
operation (para 4.20).
4.17    NEC Balance Sheets for FY79-83 are shown in Annex 20.  Following is a
summary of NEC's capitalization as of July 15, 1983:
1/  A royalty surcharge of 7.5 paise for each kWh sold was levied.  It was
discontinued in FY80.



-35-
US$ Million
Equity                      NRs Million   Equivalent        %
Government investment         755.5         47.2
Consumer contributions        10.5             .7
Retained earnings              (3.4)         (0.2)
Total Equity              762.6          47.7           95
Long-Term Debt                41.0           2.6            5
Total Capital            803.6          50.3          100
As mentioned, this very conservative capital structure, with debt amounting
to only 5% of total capital, reflects a financing pattern where capital
expansion has been financed with grants which were then passed on in the form
of equity to NEC. The negative figure for retained earnings reflects the
past depressed operating results.
Financing Plan
4.18    A forecast of sources and applications of funds for the period
FYB4-91 is shown in Annex 21. The assumptions used are outlined in Annex 22
and include upward tariff adjustments and execution of the construction
program as planned. Following is a summary of the financing plan for the
Beneficiary as a whole covering the period FY85-90, during which the proposed
project would be implemented.



-36-
FINANCING PLAN
Period of Marsyangdi 'roject FY85-90
US$ Million
NRs Million   Equivalent           %
Application
Capital assets transferred to NEC          7,271           454             91
Capital expenditures                         290            18              4
Advances for construction                    243            15              3
Working capital increase                     157            10              2
Total requirements                      7,961           497            100
Sources
Internal cash generation                   2,228           139             28
Less: Debt service                         1,526            95             19
Net internal cash generation              702            44              9
Government equity contributions            3,172           198             40
Debt to be incurred, incl. the
proposed IDA credit of US$107 million   4,087              255             51
Total sources                          7,961            497            100
4.19    The amount of funds shown in the financing plan is large and
illustrates the characteristic capital intensiveness of power infrastructure.
During the six-year period under review, fund requirements are expected to
total NRs 7,961 million (US$497 million), consisting of NRs 7,804 (US$487
million) for capital investment and NRs 157 million (US$10 million) for
increase in working capital. The proposed project, estimated to cost
NRs 5,173 million (US$323 million), including a foreign exchange component of
US$248 million, represents 66% of the total capital investment during this
six-year period.
4.20    Sources of funds include debt to be incurred by the Beneficiary in
respect of assets to be transferred. This debt amounts to NRs 4,087 million
(US$255 million), including the proposed IDA credit of US$107 million which
would provide 43% of the project's foreign exchange component of US$248
million. The remaining US$148 million of debt is in respect of the debt
portion of the capital cost of the proposed project and other projects being
executed which upon completion will be triansferred to the Beneficiary during
the six-year period under review. Those iworks outside the proposed project,
other than modest extensions to the distribution system by the Beneficiary,
are being executed by Boards similar to the Marsyangdi Board or by donor
organizations. All funds for these projects have been arranged.



-37-
4.21    The ownership of the Marsyangdi project upon its completion and
commissioning would pass to the new Authority which would operate and
maintain it. During negotiations, it was agreed that the ownership of the
Marsyangdi plant shall be transferred to the new Authority within not more
than six months of commissioning and that the Borrower shall inform the
association within sixty days of the transfer. Such information shall
include the date of transfer, the amount of assets transferred as equity and
debt and in the latter case, the terms and conditions of such debt. The debt
recorded would be less any amount that the new Authority would have con-
tributed towards the cost of the project. It was further agreed that the
part of the project financed with IDA funds would be transferred as debt with
repayment over 30 years at 12% annual interest. 1/  A grace period is not
involved since the Authority would assume ownership of the assets only after
commissioning. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. It was
also agreed that the Borrower shall cause NEC to increase its authorized
share capital a&and when needed to issue shares for assets transferred as
equity.
4.22    The financing plan shows HMG providing f-unds to the Beneficiary as
equity amounting to NRs 3,172 million over the six-year period. However,
there is also a transfer of funds from the Beneficiary to HMG amounting to
about NRs 1,550 million. This transfer consists of debt service payments to
HMG at or near commercial terms on concessionary loans/credits extended to
HMG, and payments for income tax and customs duties. The total of these
payments is equivalent to about 20% of the total capital investment during
the six-year period.
4.23    The Beneficiary is shown to finance 9% (12% before income tax) of
capital requirements from internal cash generation, after debt service;
government equity would provide 40% and borrowings 51%, bf which 42% would
be the proposed IDA credit. The Beneficiary's modest contribution of 9% of
capital investment reflects a situation where the present system is small
(151 MW installed generating capacity and 127,000 consumers) in relation to a
substantial capital program. In these circumstances and at the early stage
of power development in Nepal, it is not expected that internal sources would
finance more than a modest portion of capital investment.
Future Finances
4.24    Forecast income statements, balance sheets, and sources and applica-
tions of funds statements for FY84-91 are shown in Annexes 19, 20 and 21
respectively; notes and assumptions are in Annex 22. A summary of forecast
operating results for the eight-year period is as follows:
1/ During the five-year period FY79-83, the average annual increase in the
National Consumer Price Index in Nepal was 9.7%. Forecasts show an
inflation rate of between 7% and 9%. The current interest rate for
government loans for working capital range between 11% and 15%, and for
investment purposes between 10% and 11%.



-38-
Year ending July 15:                   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Average revenue per kWh sold
(NRs)                                0.82   1.17   1.35   1.35   1.35   1.35   1.49   1.76
Revenue (NRs Million)                   221    348    451    537    613    690    827   1058
Net Operating Income (after tax)         90    140    177    232    260    253    404    547
(NRs million)
Times debt service covered by
internal cash generation              1.2    1.5    1.9    1.6    1.8    1.8    1.0    1.4
Debt/equity ratio                     47/53  36/64  40/60  47/53  46/54  45/55  52/48  52/48
Rate of return (historically
valued assets)(%)                     5.7    5.1    5.4    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
4.25    Revenue projections are based on increases in generation of elec-
tricity, tariff increases and a gradual reduction in system losses.  Operat-
ing expenses are forecast based on system expansion and planned thermal
generation. Depreciation is taken at a 2.7% composite rate. The eight-year
forecast shows operating revenues and expentses increasing at an average
annual rate of about 29% and 22%, respectively. The number of kWhs available
for sale during this period is shown to increase by 131% and kWhs sold by
174%, reflecting a decrease in system losses. For the period through FY91,
this improvement together with the tariff increase would enable the
Beneficiary to begin earning a rate of return of 6%, cover its debt service
and contribute 9% of the cost of the capital investment program. Forecasts
show that in fiscal years 1990 and 1991 addLitional tariff increases of about
11% and 18% would be required in order to continue achieving a 6% rate of
return.
4.26    Forecast balance sheets (Annex 20) show the Beneficiary's financial
position during the eight-year period FY84--91. The balance sheets reflect
the substantial growth expected in gross fixed assets, from NRs 914 million
in FY83 to NRs 10,205 at the end of FY91. In financing this expansion,
long-term debt is expected to increase from a negligible NRs 41 million in
FY83 to NRs 4,986 million in FY91, resulting in a debt/equity ratio of 52/48
in FY91, normal for an electric utility. Equity would increase from NRs 763
million to NRs 4,645 million as a result of substantial Government equity
contributions. Other than debt service coverage by internal cash generation
reaching unity in FY90, debt service coverage is satisfactory throughout the
forecast period, as is the ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
Nevertheless, with the new financing pattern emerging with capital assets
being increasingly financed with debt, the debt servicing position should be
monitored. During negotiations agreement was reached regarding a limitation
on the new Authority's incurring debt, based on the Bank's debt limitation
covenant, with debt service coverage stipulated at 1.2 times.
V. JUSTIFICATION
5.01    A comparison of the load requirement of the integrated system with
the available generating capacity reveals that unless a new gienerating sta-
tion is added to the system by FY88/89, the forecast load demand would not be



-39-
met. Without any additional generation, the installed available capacity
would be 142 MW compared to the maximum system demand of 159 MW; the energy
requirement would be about 697 GWh compared to available hydro energy of
about 614 CWh (Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 23). To meet these projected load
demands, it is planned to construct the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power
Project. As the first unit of Marsyangdi is not likely to be commissioned
until March 1989, a capacity and energy shortage may be experienced in the
winter of 1988 (para 1.44).
Least-Cost Solution
5.02    In 1982, the consulting engineer used a computer program (EXSIM) 1/
to determine the least-cost power expansion program out of four possible
programs consisting of a mix of hydro projects (for which feasibility/
prefeasibility reports were available), 2/ coal-fired thermal and low-speed
diesel. All programs were designed to meet a system demard of 495 MW and
1995 GWh by FY95. It was concluded that even up to a discount rate of 15%,
it would be more economical to build Marsyangdi in comparison to alternative
thermals.
5.03    Further economic comparison was carried out which established that
the Marsyangdi Project is still the least-cost solution. Four alternative
programs have been considered for the development of the power system to meet
system demand of 391 MW and 1862 GWh up to FY2000.
Alternative I
(a) Eastern Interconnection consisting of 283 km of 132 kV
transmission line from Hetauda to Biratnagar (to be operational
by June 1986);
(b) Western Interconnection consisting of 270 km of 132 kV
transmission line from Dumkibas to Nepalganj (to be operational
by June 1987);
(c) Kulekhani II Power Station (hydro) consisting of 2 units of
16 MW each (to be commissioned by October 1986);
(d) Marsyangdi Power Station (hydro) consisting of 3 units of
23 MW each (to be commissioned between March-July 1989); and
(e) Sapt Gandaki Power Station (Hydro) consisting of 3 units of
75 MW each (to be commissioned during FY94, 95, 96).
1/ Interim report of the consulting engineer establishing the least-cost
sequence for power generation expansion will be included in the project
document file.
2/  Other prolects for which studies are not available yet could not be
considered. To enlarge the scope of selection for future power develop-
ment program, additional studies are being carried out (para 1.23).



-40-
Alternative II 1/
Same as Alternative I except that t:he Marsyangdi Power Station
is replaced by a coal-fired therma:L station.
Alternative III I/
Same as Alternative I except that the Marsyangdi Power Station
is replaced by a low-speed diesel station.
Alternative IV 1/
Same as Alternative I except that the Marsyangdi Power Station
is replaced by a gas turbine staticin using diesel oil.
5.04    In all alternatives, Sapt Gandaki is assumed to be the next hydro
prolect because HMG has made detailed investigations of this project. The
location of all thermal power stations has been assumed to be at Birganj, the
terminus of the railway system from India. The Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC)
has an agreement with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) for supplying fuel.
All fuel is transported by NOC across the border by trucks. The total fuel
consumption in Nepal in FY83 was about 147,600 tons and is estimated to grow
to about 290,000 tons by FY93, a 7% per annum growth rate (para 1.10). If
gas turbines are used, the requirement for of fuel would rise by an addi-
tional 117,000 tons in FY93 (peak period of thermal generation), or a 40%
increase over the 290,000 tons. In order to handle this sharp increase,
there would be two options. The first option would be to negotiate with IOC
for an increase in supply and extend their existing road haulage facilities.
However, this would not be reliable because of frequent breakdowns of trucks
and likely interruptions due to land slides. The second option would be to
use Indian Railways from Calcutta to Birganj via Baruni. This option would
ensure better firm supplies of fuel if satisfactory transport arrangements
are made. This option has been used in the economic analysis. The cost of
transporting fuel has been estimated on the basis of existing tariff. (For
details refer to Table 3 of Annex 23.)
5.05    In all alternatives, the thermal energy has been generated only when
hydro energy is not available. The calculations are based on the assumption
that 357 GWH produced by Marsyangdi annually would be used in the system. In
case of drought, usable hydro energy would be reduced resulting in increased
fuel cost required for extra thermal energy. However, these considerations
have not been included in economic calculations because (a) it is difficult
to quantify the shortage of energy in any particular dry year as hydrological
data is short; and (b) the effect is not lilkely to be significant (para
3.02). The costs are based on mid-1984 prices and do not include price
1/ It is not possible to replace the Marsyangdi project with any other hydro
proiect because there has been no detailed engineering for any other
hydro proiect. The only practical way of meeting the system load demand
by 1988/89 is either to implement the Marsyangdi project or to replace it
with one of the thermal alternatives referred to above.



-41-
escalation, nor local taxes and duties. Local costs have been converted to
border costs. The planning period is up to FY2000.  The comparison has b-en
made between the present value of various alternative programs at discoun
rates of between 8% and 16%. and assuming the life of the proposed proaec'> t
be 50 years.
5.06    The supporting energy balance calculations are shown in Table 4 of
Annex 23. It will be seen from the cash flow and present value statements
(Table 5) that the program which includes the Marsyangdi proiect, is the
least-cost solution up to a discount rate of 11.9%, with the next best solu-
tion being Alternative IV (gas turbine). Nepal, being landlocked, HMG is
strongly opposed to the idea of developing further power generation programs
which depend upon fuel oil.  It is felt that the continuous import of fuel
oil would be a a drain on foreign exchange resources and also that in the
light of past experience and tremendous transport constraints which exist cne
supply itself courd be unreliable.  This reasoning is sound, particularly in
light of the abundant hydro resources in Nepal.  The Marsyangdi project being
the least-cost solution up to discount rate of 11.,9% is therefore the co'lracc
choice.
5.07    The following sensitivity analysis was carried out in order to check
the influence of a lower load growth, a variation of fuel costs and the cost
of civil works of the Marsyangdi project:
Case 1: Investment of all alternatives has been postponed by one
year on the assumption that load demand projected for FY89
will materialize only by FY90. This would mean that instsad
of overall annual growth rate of 14.7% in sales during
FY83-FY89, it will be 12.5%;
Case 2: Instead of 3% annual increase in real prices of fuel from
1985 onwards, assumed in the calculations, a 4% increase
has been considered for Alternatives III and IV;
Case 3: An annual increase in real prices of fuel has been assumed
by 2% from FY85 to FY95. No increase has been considered
beyond FY95.
Case 4: The cost of civil works of Marsyangdi project has been
increased by 10%;
Case 5: The cost of civil works of Marsyangdi project has been
decreased by 10%.
The present values of all alternatives and the switching values of discount
rates up to which Alternative I is the least cost: solution under various
conditions are given in Table 5 of Annex 23. It will be seen that whereas
postponement of the project has no effect (Case 1), an increase in the annual
increase of 1% in real prices of fuel (4% as compared to 3%) makes the
project the least-cost up to discount rate of 12.7% (Case 2).  By assuming an
annual increase of 2% upto FY95 and no increase thereafter, the project is
the least cost upto discount rate of 10.4% (Case 3). Ten percent increase in
civil works cost changes the discount rate to about 10.9% (Case 4).



-42-
5.08    The consulting engineer has used a computer program (EXSIM) to check
if it would be economical to design Marsyangdi as 50 or 100 MW instead of 69
MW. For each different version, designs were optimized by the consultant
and the costs were estimated. When these versions were used to replace 69 MW
project in the expansion program referred to in para 5.02, it was concluded
that 69 MW version is the most economical. This is a correct conclusion.
Primarily because of low flows during winter, increase in installed capacity
beyond 69 MW would not be justified. In addition, the pondage available for
daily peak would also not permit a peak as high as 100 MW.
Cost/Benefit Analysis
5.09    The benefits of Marsyangdi project are:
(a) increased generation of primary and secondary energy making it
possible to sell more electricity to consumers within Nepal
or to India until the power market in Nepal is developed;
(b) conservation of imported fuel which would have been required
to run the existing diesel stations to meet essential loads
in the absence of Marsyangdi project; and
(c) strengthening of the grid transmission system of Nepal and local
distribution system of Kathmandu.
The internal rate of return on the proiect is the discount rate which equal-
izes the economic costs and benefits. For the sale of energy to consumers
within Nepal, there is consumers' surplus beyond the tariff. The benefits
should, therefore, not only include the observed revenues paid by the con-
sumers according to the prevailing tariff but also should include consumers'
surplus. In the absence of electricity, some consumers would be willing to
use alternative energy sources, even if the cost were higher than that for
electricity. No sufficient bases are available for calculating benefits due
to consumers' surplus; it is also not possible to calculate the benefits
attributable to better transmission system reliability and to improved
Kathmandu local distribution.
5.10    Benefits have therefore been calculated on the tariffs alone.  Both
the existing as well as the proposed tariff have been considered. All costs
have been converted to border costs and are based on mid 1984 prices. Cost
and benefit streams up to CY 2040 are shown in Annex 24. In Case 1 where the
existing tariff is considered, the IRR is 3.9% and in Case 2 where the
proposed tariff is considered, the IRR is 5.9%.
5.11    The true economic rate of return would be significantly higher if all
benefits could be quantified, such as willingness to pay of all types of
consumers, increased system reliability. Additional effect would be the
conservation of foreign exchange due to reduced oil imports.
5.12    A sensitivity analysis has been made in order to check the impact of
the following assumptions on the IRR:
(a) Benefits are increased by 10%;



-43-
(b) Benefits are decreased by 10%;
(c) Output of Marsyangdi (benefits) is deferred by one year; and
(d) Secondary energy is sold to India at the existing tariff
of IRs 0.14/KWh.
The results are given in Annex 24. It will be seen that in all cases the
sensitivity analysis has little effect on the internal rate of return.
5.13    The IRR of 5.9% is based on tariffs alone and shows that tariffs are
low in relation to the cost of supplying electricity in Nepal. A start has
been made to increase tariffs. An increase of 56% was made in May 1983 and
another increase of 65% would be made under the project. Additional
increases would be introduced in the future as part of the earnings covenant
(para 4.25).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01    The following matters were raised during negotiations on which satis-
factory agreement was reached:
(a) IDA to receive reports of studies for future power projects in
order to identify a future power development program (para 1.23);
(b) NEA establishing a plant maintenance program (para 1.45);
(c) A system loss reduction program to be implemented and a loss
elimination specialist to be retained (para 1.49);
(d)  Maintain MHDB with adequate staff, funds, powers and responsi-
bilities to carry out the project (para 2.04);
(e)  Except in special circumstances, the discontinuance of the
formation of new development boards (para 2.05);
(f) The new Authority (NEA) commencing operations by April 30, 1985
(para 2.07);
(g) Submission of audited project accounts and full report for MHDB
and audited financial statements and full report for the new
Authority (para 2.10);
(h)  HMG instituting effective methods/procedures for ensuring that
government users pay their electricity bills on time and settling
government arrears (para 2.12);
(i) Restriction on declaration of dividends (para 2.13);
(j) Development of an insurance program (para 2.14);
(k) Arranging funds for transmission lines (para 3.14);



-44-
(1)  Maintain the existing panel of experts and appoint a claims
advisor (para 3.19);
(m)  A rehabilitation program for dislocated persons (para 3.21);
(n)  Commencement of implementation of recommendations on the Marsyangdi
catchment management plan (para 3.21);
(o)  Land acquisition (para 3.22);
(p)  Plan of action for establishing a training center (para 3.27)
(q)  Financial performance covenant (para 4.09);
(r)  Revaluation of assets (para 4.13);
(s)  Transfer of the Marsyangdi plant to the new Authority, terms for
repayment of the IDA funds to HMG and increases in share capital
(para 4.21); and
(t)  Limitation on incurrence of debt (para 4.26).
6.02    The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a)  meeting of all conditions of effectiveness of (i) Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement, (ii) Saudi Fund Loan Agreement, and (iii) KfW Grant
(paras 3.12 and 3.14); and
(b)  securing of additional financing required to meet the total cost
of Lot I of the civil works from sources outside Nepal (para 3.14).
6.03    With the above agreements reached, the proposed project forms an
appropriate basis for an IDA Credit of US$107 million equivalent.



o  "               N               00000                    0   -                            CON  C   "'0  '0 C  
U    -                  w   0000CC    No                            N                            -
0                                  0.03                     o'    N                                     -       00               CC      0  0'    0'
-       N  N   0' -  0       N                                                                               0      0' C'                        IC
o  N      0         -                    -                         0                                                              -      0         *O
0  COCONCON                                 NOON            -                                                                     0         C   IC                    0
ON                                                                         N                      C   
0       0  0     0         0                       '-"    "  "                   0
--                                                         0'       NO.                               CC                   -
S                    -   -               -                                 0'      -    -                               0     0'
*                  -                                                         0       OC   0    00      -                0      o
-         '0                   -   -                                                          N  N              ON
100               0'        CO
-     -                          N
go
SoNoos                                                                                                           CC                               CC
OOLCZN    0000            CC              N    N   N      N                                                                                              0
0O                      0       0       0         B     B              0        0                                     0
000    *                 0'              -                -                                                                                             -C                   -
-                                                    0.               '          '    0
0000                                    NO  ON  OCCO                                      CCO                         ON   ""CO          N  CO            N
00000                   CC        CO                    Br                                        C0                DCC                   0  0-     N  0
'1  000                                 00  00  00                                                 o'0                00                'I  N           0
NIN                      0"'      '0    00.              00                                        ON                  0'-               0001000                                      0
C  010                  NO               oNooo                     B      B       B        B"      o                   0     0.0         0             -  0                   0
CO '0 00 - ON o' N 0' IC 0 00' - -
-                    -                                 -        C-      -                   -                 -
00                                                                                                                                                                                00
0                   CC         CO  N   N   N        N       N      N       Co         a       CCC       0         C                   .  .  -
COO COO                                                                                                                                                                           CC" 0
0                                                                                             N                   N
0  0                                      0   00                                                                                         COCOCO
CCC       CO        0     CO   N
00.0                              NC           CO   N      CO      N     CO       N         N
N               N   N                                                     N                  N                N         N                                too
-                                               C'C 0                     -    -    -      -
000                       CO              -         N      '0     C"    CO                          00        0                     0    NC"              C                   N   iOO
N       N'0    0   N                           N                          ON        -         -     -         NOC              0                   0'
0     0                   0           0   N    0    CO     N       '0    0'      CO        '.      C    N    0'        0      N    OC   0'   '0    0     '                   '0                 N  00
0     CO      N          C       0  00     0         0      N   0    CC 0  0          0                    0
N       N  CO   N    0'  0      '0                                                                                                                          0    '0  0'    CC
0  0                                                                                                                                                                                       tO
0' 0                                                                                                                                                                                       0    N  C
    0    "  N
0  0 '0000    0
0  0  0                                                                                                                                                                          0-00    I,,
0                                                                                                                                                                                           N
C N
N  '0                   N       ON    N          '0     N       N      C       '.C       -        CC       0          0     '0   0   CON 000  ON  0'  0'    N  -  0  0' N  0  N    0    0  0  '0  '  0  N
a                                                                            0
O  NC                     0'       -  -   -         0'                                      0       '        0'        N      ..o0'NNN                   N                   0'
-*         -   N                  NN0000'   N                                    -             '1  0 N
'0         N   CO   N   CO    0'              0'      '0         '0       N  0'    -          '0         COON                 C                   C      00    0    N
N       N  CO  0    N   CO      N       N      '0      -          N       '0  N     0'        N     C    -   0' CO '0 0'       C                   N
O         0'                     -                              0'
-         C     -     -          -         -                   -
0'              0'  0'   0'NN             .0                  N   -00            B00
N       C      -         N      CO                    CO          N       N  C      CO       '0   '0   0    0  '-C C  N        0'                  N
N       C                N      C       N      0'     '0          N       N  0      C         CO    o'   C    C-C C  C  N                           C                 CC C
0       '0  C   C   N   CO      C       CO     N       N          CO                                                                                    -C'OCO       '0  N
-      0  -      N                0    0C''0''              -                   CO
N       '0               '0     0       -.    0'       0'                0' C       C         N     0    C   0  N  0' '0       N                    N   000
CO     DCC               N      0'      N      N       C          N       CC    0'  CO        N     N    N     '0    0    N    CO  N                N   '-'N
N       0'               CC     CO      C      0       0'         N      CO    C    CO        N     C    N     '0    C  CO   0'  '0                 0     '0

000  CC 0000     000000.0   'CNC0C'00CO  '0   N".   00 CO'C                       '00  COOZ"'0            0 N  ON       C  00 0.00000.300 NC'' '0
go                         C0'       go gozi
0000      00  OOC    COO   0000  '000   'C             OOC                   OCO  NOCOCO  000    00 00            0     N'O 0  NOmO 0000 o'00
000.0               00  C  0  00  0  0  0   - C    0.0  00    COO            000  000000   0  0 I                    0'
C     0  COO  0'OOC'  0' Co                                                     00'         N  O0'N    0000000000              '1
- O'0  00  0     OCI0ONNC.0 0    0                             0fCN   '0Ofl      OCCO  OOOCC000C                      P.   r  o  0-,ooo'ooo
-                          00   '00  0000    '01"   -COO   NO        0  .0-         0000  0  00.0  ONo  B   00           0     '0oO   0  OOOCC"ON'CN           0
0  0.0000              o    000000  CB'Be   CNN   00  '-'0  NO'-"'             ICoN  Noo-o   000'   0                  CO
CO-N   -O        '0         '0             0  0      0  '0 N-  00' C            -  0
O'00'0' ON                                   0    -.   OCO.  0000000       -COO
0000                0         NO  0  N            C  0000   -  0   CO          000       C  0  0  0    00'
00'00          I     0         ZN                '00  COO   0  0000         0C0    0000   00   "CC  NC           0  0  NOO   0000.0000000
,00                  0   N  Wo 0o             00    0.Bo  ooO          000  00000   0CC   CON                      COO   0000000.0000
0' NO                      0    0       00        0    0  00                  0   00  0'   00    '0'    N         0  0  0'       00000   
O  0                         000000000                  00  0000'CO    '-'00        00'CO  00000  00.0    N   0          0  0  "'00  NO    -'1,0'
N  ON 000  000    0080000  NooN    C00C00'I'0ONON  0   N                                       0 'ON  00O
0000   000.   00   0    00   C0O                                          0      0  0'   NO  '000    000000
B0'   A.           0      0'   NB    000  (NO         00.  00000'   COO0'    '000' 10000.            0                N0'0'0'    oOoOOO
000 000 C OC 00 '0 000 NC 000 C"'OC C '0' 'CoC 0CC 0' 0 000 000000
0      000                      0    '0000  NON        0    00   N    C''N        ''0       00      0    00    0       0  0   0    -  000000000
000    000'                  NN00'1N                  00'  00.000'  '0000'        CON   NONO          0' 00    0       C       00'   000' 00000
'0 C    0.00       0         C   00  '00' N   NO        'CC   0O'0OC0000C           00CC   CCOCC    0000          0'     0  0'   NC    0000.00000'
00                NC  CO  CNN 00000
CO    00    0                          '0CC  COO              COCO   000    COo                       or                        COOCOONNOO
'000    0  0       5.            0       -10' C        00    0'0ON   '.'0NCO       000   NO.00                   CC           o'    0  00000  'CO
0-    00                               COt-CC  o0'0    N.  0                      0'    00.
000.0   0'0N       0  ON    N   00    0        0000      ON  00--CON         N      .00'   000'    CC-C           0         -C  CCC    0.0  ON  00
CCC     0 '0                     0'o    000  oO N       0'     COO          0'       0     0  0.    00            0         N   00    Co 00000000
0.     00'    0.0     C    000            C         0       CCC'    0*          0'       CC      0    C  00000   CC'0
go                           0          0  N  000         N  '0000.0   'C 0         0.00000                      C         0   00    000 NO    ''00
0  CC    NO                  0   '00    00        0     00   00000        000        00    000'      NO                          00        000.0000
-N                     001    0                                                                                        0      000.00000  0
0' 00000 0 000 00 0-CC' '0 0 '00 0000 C 000
-         '0                 o   0      o'o   COON        0C0.NO          000
'0  00    OCN  0  0  00  00   CO    '('C          CC    Oooo    Oo             go        0.   C 0000CC0'00   00
o  00   0 ..O              OCOC    C  0CC                 C  0000'  00                              0
N   0'  00.        C            C0''         0'   00'        00'   C         00.          o        C'   0
00                     C                0          CC               00                         0-C    00   00CCN
C                                                      B  a  00010



-46-                           Annex 2
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
ectricitCorporationC NEC)
Small Hydro Projects
A. Completed
Energy
Name of       Region and    Installed             Year of         Operated    Generated
Project        District 1/   Capacity(kW)   Commissioning             By       in 1980/81(MWh)
Dhankuta      E/Dhankuta         2x120             1972               NEC            491
Surkhet       M&F.W/Surkhet    3x115               1978               ED             336
Khairenitar  W/Kaski             2x140             1972           Agr.Deptt.       Nb metering
Gajouri       C/Dhading          lx25              1980               NEC          lb metering
Baglung       W/Baglung          lx175             1982               SHDB            28   3/
Doti          F.W/Doti           2x12O             1982               SHDB            37   3/
Phydim        E/Panchatar       2x130              1982               SHDB            43   3/
Dhading       C/Dhading         lx30               1982               SHDB            19   3/
Gorkha        E/Ilam            2x32               1982               SHDB            23.7 4/
Jumla         M&FW/Jumla        2x130              1982               SHDB            31.9 4/
Jomson        W/Mustang         2x130              1982               SHDB            34.6 4/
Total   2,179
B. Under Construction
Name of      Region and        Installed      Proposed Year          Financed          Total Estimated
Project       District 1/      Capacity (kW) of Commissioning            By 2/        Cost (NRs million)
Ihmche       E/Solukhumbu       6x13O              1986              Austrian Govt.         44.3
Chame                           2x130              1986               HMG                     3.3
Salleri/
Chialsa       E/Solokhumbu      2xlOO              1986               SATA/HMG               10.5
Tapeljung    E/Tapeljung         1x125             1986               UICDF/HMG               5.34
Khandbari    E/Sankhuwasabha  2x125                1986               UICDF/HMG               6.71
Okhaldhunga  E/Okhaldhunga    1x120                1986              UNCDF/hMG                5.94
Ramechap      E/Ramechap         1x75              1986              UNCDF/HMG                1.0
Bhojpur       E/Bhojpur         2x125              1986               UNCDF/HMG               8.8
Tehrathum    E/Tehrathum        2xlOO              1986               ADB/HMG                 6.1
Dunche        C/Rasuwa          2xlOO              1986                  "                    7.63
Tatopani      W/Mustang         2x500              1986                  "                   36.90
Serpudah      F.W/Rukum         2xlO0              1986                  "                    9.62
Chaurjari    F.W/Rukum          2xlO0              1986                                       9.15
Bajura        F.W/Bajura        2xlO0              1986                                       6.37
Bajhang       F.W/Bajhang       2xlO0              1986                  "                    7.74
Helambu       C/Sindu Palchok  Ix5D                1985                                       2.25
Manang        W/Manang           4x4D              1984                                       5.40
Dadeldhura   F.W/Dadeldhura   IxiO                 19R4"                                       3.5
Syangja       W/Syngja          2x40               1985                                        2.86
Darchula      F.W/Darchula       lx1OD             1984                                        3-54
Andhikhola   Western             2x2,500           1986               UMN/HMG                 50.00
Total       9,750
C. Under Investigation
Name of     Region and          Possible
Project      District 1/      Potential(kW)
Gai Ghat      E/Udaypur              180
Dunaie        W/Dolpa                130
Khalanga      M.W/Piuthan             33
Khalanga      M.W/Sallyan            150
Chainpur      F.W/Bajhang            200
Bandipur      W/Tanahu               163
Ridi Bazar   W/Gulmi                 180
Jiri          C/Dolakha              120
Phalebar      W/Parbat                80
Chiangthapu  E/Pachthar               50
Sindhuliman  C/Sindhuli              120
Gorkha Bazar W/Gorkha                 90
Besi Sahar   C/Lamung                100
Detgown tar  W/lbwal Paresi           40
Chutra Besi  W/Argha Xhanchi          50
Liwang        M.W/Rolpa              100
Total      1,786
1/    = Eastern, M & F.W = Mid and Far Western, C = Central, 1i = Western
2/  SATA:  Swiss Association of Technical Assistance
UNCDF: United iations Capital Development Funds
UM N:   United Mission to Nbpal
3/  Energy generated till October 1982
4/  Energy generated till August 1983



-47-                                         Annex 3
NEPAL
NARSYANODI HSDRoELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Gem ration Capacity (Existing and Under Construction)
Installed
Capacity (KW)      Pir. Capa-      Year of
Location         Typ    Ownership   No X Rating        city (MW)  CO_iSioning               Rearks
Central Region
Existing
Trisoli       Rydro     NEC       7x3.0  -21.0         18.0         1970
.S.nkosi       Rydro     NEC      3x3.35 -10.05          5.1        1973
Pasnati       Hydro     NEC       3x0.8  - 2.4          2.4         1964
Sondorijl   Hydro      NEC       2x0.32 - 0.64         0.64        1934
Pharping      Hydro     NEC       2x0.25 - 0.50         0.50        1911
Mahendra      Dtesel    NEC       4x0.424- 1.696        1.4         1956
4x2.5 -10.0          10.0         1981
hetauds       Diesel    NEC       3x1.43 - 4.47         4.0         1966
Janakpur      Diesel    NEC       2x0.284- 0.832 1/     0.60        1961
1O0.264
Bharatpor     Dieel    NEC        2x0.264- 0.528 1/     0.50        1961
Patan         Diesel    NEC      lx1.49 - 1.49          1.2         1966
Kolekbani I   Hydro     NEC 2/   2x30   -60.0          60.0         April 1982
Devighat      Hydro     NEC 2/   3x4.7  -14.1          10.8         1983
Total                                  127.706      115.14(N)
108.69 (H)    97.44(')
19.016(D)    17.70(D)
Under Construction
ltsiekhani II    'ydro    NEC 2/   2x16-32.0              32.0        Dct 1986
Eastern Region
Existing
Ila.          Diesel    NEC       lx.100-0.200         0.160        1961,73
Bhadrapor     Diesel    NEC       Ix.346-0.346         0.240        1975
Dhankuta      Hydro     NEC       2x.120-0.240         0.160        1973
Dharan        Die el    NEC       2x0.106-0.212        0.127        1965
Birstnegar    Diesel    NEC       1x1.500-2.934        1.50         1977           Presently not in operation
3.932        2.187
0.24(H)      0.16(d)
3.692(D)     2.027(D)
Western Beion
Existing
Gandak        Nydro     NEC       3x5.0  -15.0        10.8          1980
Pokhara       Hydro     NEC       2x0.288-1.088        1.088        1969
2a0.256
Pokhers       Die el    NEC       3x0.346-1.038        0.982        1974/75
Taoses        Die el    NEC       2x0.112-0.244        0.160        1956           To be retired
Ehairewa      Diesel    NEC       2x0.2640.528 1/      0.500        1961
Toolihewa     Diesel    NEC       lx0.05 -0.05         0.050        1973
trishoasger   Die el    NEC       lxO.112-0.112        0.112        1956           Tn be retired
REhadurganj  Dieel    NEC         lxO.025-0.025        0.025        1956           To be retired
Butwal(Tinau) Hydro     NEC       2x0.4  -1.23         1.23         1969
NEC      lxO.43                  -         1974
Preseotly Not in Operation
Dieel    NEC               0.225        ---
Total                                  19.54        14.947
17.318(H)    13.118(H)
2.222(D)     1.829(0)
Under Construction
Seti          ED                       -  1.0                       1983/84
Andhi Jhola   ED                       -  5.0                       1986
Mid and Far Western Region
Existing
Ghorahi       Diesel    ED       1i0.05-0.050          0.05         1982
1x0.05-0.050         0.05         1956
Talsipor      Diesel    ED       1i0.05
IxO.025-0.075        0.05        1956
Surklet       Hydro     ED        3x0.115-0.345        0.115        1978
Surkhet       Diesel    ED        lxO.02 -0.020        0.020        1973
Nepalgonj     Diesl    ED         2x0.2640.5281/       0.500        1961
Dhangadhi     Diesel    ED        lz0.025-0.025        0.025        1973
Naheadranagar Die el    ED        1x0.025-0.025        0.025        1973
Total                                  1.118         0.835
0.345(N)      0.115(H)
0.773(D)      0.720(0)
Suary of Existing Capacity
Nepal
Total            152.296      133.109
Hydro            127.593      110.833
Thermal (D)       24.703       22.276
NEC                      Tatal             151.178     132.274
Hydro            127.248      110.718
Theral (D)        23.93      21.556
Grid Systee              Total            147.246     130.087
Hydro           126.008      110.558
Thermal (D)      21.238      19.529
1/ Transferred frin Xatbeardo
2/ Likely to be transferred to NEC



- 48 -
Annex 4
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Transmission Lines and Distribution Lines
A. Transmission Lines (66 and 132 kV)
Expected
Length       Conductor    Voltage        No. of   Type of  Commissio-
Description                     (km)         Size(ACSR)    (kV)        Circuits  Tower 1/ ning Date           Region
Existing
Trisuli-Balaju                 28.7          .10 sq in        66         2          DC                        Central
Balaju-Siuchatar                7.0          .15 sq in        66         2          DC
Hetauda-Birganj                50.0          .15 sq in        66          2         DC
Patan-Sunkosi                  57.21         120 sq mm        66          1         SC
Siuchatar-Kulekhani I          29.00         .15 sq in        66         2          DC
Kulekhani l-Hetauda            16.00         .15 sq in        66          2         DC
Hetauda-Bharatpur              70            .20 sq in       132          1         SC
Bharatpur-Dumkibas             52            .20 sq in       132          1         SC                        Western
Dumbkibas-Gandak               32            .20 sq in       132          1         SC                           "
Patan-Siuchatar                 4            160 sq mm        66         1          SC                        Central
Bharatpur-Pokhara              85            .15 sq in       132          1         SC                        Central/Western
Devighat-Chabel                35           0.25 sq in        66          2         DC                        Central
Under Construction
Hetauda-Janakpur              137           0.25 sq in       132          1         DC      June 1986         Central
Janakpur-Biratnagar           146          0.25 sq in        132          1         DC      June 1986         Central/Eastern
Dumkibas-Butwal                45          0.25 sq in        132          1         DC      Oct. 1985         Western
Butwal-Shivpur                 50          0.25 sq in        132          1         DC      June 1987
Shivpur-Lamahi                 62.5        0.25 sq in        132          1         DC      June 1987
Lamahi-Nepalgunj              112.5         0.25 sq in       132          1         DC      June 1987
Marsyangdi-Bharatpur           40           0.25 sq in       132          1         SC      Jan  1989         Central
Marsyangdi-Balaju              90           0.25 sq in       132          1         SC      Jan  1989
Kulekhani II-Siuchatar         36          0.25 sq in        132          1         SC      Oct  1986
Kulekhani II-Hetauda            7           0.25 sq in       132          1         SC      Oct  1986
Balaju-Lainchaur                2          0.15 sq in         66          1         SC      Jan  1989
Planned
Biratnagar(Dubi)-Anarmani   70             0.25 sq in        132          1         SC                        Eastern
Nepalgunj-Dhangadi             175         0.25 sq in        132          1         SC                        Farwestern
Dhangadi-Mahandranagar          55         0.25 sq in        132          1         SC                        Farwestern
Hetauda-Bharatpur               70          0.25 sq in       132          1         SC                        Central
Balaju-Chabel                    8           160 sq mm        66          2         DC                        Central
B.  Distribution Lines (33 kV and below)
Regions               33 kV           11 kV           3.3 and 2.3 kV            LT Lines
(km)            (km)                (km)                   (km)
DC      SC 1/
Existing
Central               35             47.5   400             28                       1500
Western              195              -      200             4                        500
Eastern              188                      76             -                        286
Mid-Western           60                      31             -                         90
Far-Western          25                       21             -                         60
Under Construction
Central             170                       80             -                        221.0
Western               20                      35             -                        150.0
Eastern               27                      80             -                        120.0
Mid-Western           80                      35             -                        100.0
Far-Western            -                     250             -                        100.0
Planned
Central             154                      380             -                        900.0
Western               67                     150             -                        450.0
Eastern               66                     125             -                        225.0
Mid-Western         155                      230             -                        500.0
Far-Western           60                     100             -                        320.0
1/ DC = Double Circuit
SC - Single Circuit



-49-
Annex 5
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
NEPAL ELECRICITY CORPORATION (NEC)
A. Grid Substations (66 and 132 kV)
Transformer                  Commis-
Capacity       No. of        sioning
Name                 Voltage         Per Unit       Units          Date        Region
(kV)          (MVA)      ___
Existing
Trishuli             6.6/66           3.750         2x3+1 1/        1966-70    Central
Balaju I             66/11            3.750         2x3+1 1/        1966-70
Balaju II            66/11            6.0            1                1981
Sunkoshi             6.3/72.6         6.3           2                 1972
Patan I              66/11            6.3           2                 1972
Gandaki              6.6/132         10.0           2                 1979     Western
Bharatpur            A32/11          10.0           1                 1979     Central
Hetauda I            11/66            1.5           2                 1966
Hetauda II           66/132          10.0            1                1979
Hetauda III          11/66            6.0           2                 1981
Kulekhani 1          11/66           35.0           2                 1982
Siuchatar I          66/11           18.0           2                 1982
Patan II             66/11           18.0           1                 1982
Pokhara              132/11           6.0           1                 1983     Western
Devighat             11/66            8.5           2                 1983     Central
Chabel               66/11            8.5           2                 1983
Under Construction
Hetauda IV           66/132          10.0           2                 1986     Central
Biratnagar           132/11          15.0           2                 1986     Eastern
Janakpur             132/33/11       10.0           1                 1986     Central
Marsyangdi           11/132          10.0          3x3+1 1/           1989
Balaju               132/66          15.0          lx3+1 1/           1989
Kulekhani II         11/132          39.6            1                1986
Siuchatar II         132/66          39.6           1                 1986
Butwal               132/33          10.0           1                 1985     Western
Dumkibas             132/33           5.0           1                 1985
Shivpur              132/33           5.0           1                 1987
Lamahi               132/33           5.0           1                 1987     Mid-Western
Nepalgunj            132/33          10.0            1                1987         "
Lainchaur            66/11            10.0           2                1989     Central
Planned
Anarmani             132/33/11        5.0           1                 -        Eastern
Dhangadi             132/33/11        5.0           1                -         Far-Western
Mahandranagar        132/33/11        5.0            1
B. Distribution Substations (33 kV and below):
Existing                     Transformer Capacity (kVA)
Central                               98,250
Western                               10,300
Eastern                               20,085
Mid-Western                            4,300
Far-Western                            3,100
Under Construction
Central                               28,075
Western                                2,500
Eastern                                15,000
Mid-Wastern                             1,500
Far-Western                             1,000
Planned
Central                               60,000
Western                                11,500
Eastern                                5,500
Mid-Western                             5,000
Far-Western                            3,000
1/ Single Phase Units






881Y04GDI H.YDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Sepal El-ctriciy C-rearaEia (EC
Past Sales and Eent
Ese-gy FRigone  are in EWh and D.asand_igues j            9)
Craned   Esglns     1870/71              1975/76             1976/77            1~~~~~~~~~~___910/78  1978/79            1979/80            _1980/El              1981/82                  1982/83
D--itt                                27(400550) 22,876  (60,565) 57,017   162,528) 32,720  767,086) 50,073  171,028) 58,977   (76,959) 57,971  (80,959) 60,E94E788,504)   69,305   (83,009)   9.4
lnd-  tial_     6407   5,749                                     973) 18,212      7  9767 22,4637 1,161) 25,7497 1,2497  25,3527 1,4897) 31,907   11,569) 27.661  7 2,703)   30.583   7 1.880)   80,830
C-seer.1 3/                                   14)  4,5677    50)  8,951    7    40  11,1337    69) 12,7802                      717  17.987  7      74) 25,0587   150) 26,166  1   159)   23,819                  171)   27,881
Other   (intloing                                                                                                                                                                                                 -        94
sniP roonnepoion)                    ~~~2,310             2,322               2,137                1,922               3,072               6.021                5156         -       5,757          -    16.49
Sales En Nepal                                     35,051              81,512               87,453              99,436             105,538              170,857             1185,855             1 30.445          -       5.898
Onport  to India                                      ~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~5,900   6,116  5,970               6,160               5,196                3,765        -13,053
Sopply en W.s---  EngEon                             -                     -                             -                    -                   -                    -               -            3,610          -     1.5
ieg9Y 9--eeaid(Oyd-o)                              53,565             173,860              133,231             146,631              163,096             168,896             1698,35                2 03,596        -      273,218
E.tr5y ir-n-tedMe.noll                                  84               1,008               7,176               3,501                3,840              16,517              11,483           -      7,6335                 2,046
loE-y iepoetd f-a  CodEsi--                                                                                                                                                      --                     -
Loss 76wh (Percet) 6/                     10,197   (33,9)    57,397 (30)          41,838 (30.97        48,726 (32.4)       55,240 (55.1)        59,354   (33.2)    58,698   (32.37       71,993  (04.1)         87,739   (31.80)
V-ai-o  desso d (Load Fec,-r5/            15.06    (40,2)    31.88   (04,7)       30.72  (00.5)        37,8    (45.2)      38.1   (09.9)       42.9      (09.1)    44,46    746.6)       56,48    (42.3)             66  (47,6)
SI.Tsrr  lMn6
Dnnentlc                      7 ~~~~~1,187)  413    (5,6257   3,065    (6,539)  4,511    (7,465)   5,017    (8,346)   0,515   (9,3317   3,636  (10.350)  76,154  (11,198)    6,520    (12,813)   1I,E57
Iodonleiol                   7    73~~~~2)  179   (7154)  1,313           196)  2,963    72707)  2,6899        7  302)  3,649       7  352)  4,376 7   400)  4,360   7 436)   5,0277                   508)    5,683
Cossycli1                               7     I)        13   7 457         7222        457     772    7 19)         278 6        57      33   7      37     184          123     /20   7     18)       721    7     47j    1,786
Others (It-lodlo self-
_.oa,plloo)                                          41       1       (.57                1,455               1,592                1,6176              1,822                1,650         -      1,248          -7383
Sae roNepal                                        _647              6,051               76,001               9,584              12,608              15,0)0               (2,884                13,507                 18,309
Enport -to EaI  a--                                                                                                 --- 
EnerY Se--rard(OYdra706                                                  4,294               5,479               6,561                6,6000              7,113                5,281         -      3,470                  4,256
to-gi  g--erard(Thar.sl7                                                   654                 742                  882               1,551               1,054                  882         -         740                   365
Enenoy inp-rod Ero  Sodis                                                2,419               3,870               3,767                5,064               7,715                8,420         -      9,396                  8,007
Onyply Pro  Centro  Engilo---                                                                  -                    -                   -                   -                          -            3,810                 13,850
Loss M01h (?-rreen)                          320       (34.5) 1,816    (23.17    2,098   (70.07    1,670    (14.51    3,316    121,67    3,806    (14,57    1,699    (13.5)    3,899                (22,4)      8,239    (31,0)
En-iro   Onnood                              0.3600            7,205               7,870                3.07                3.47                 3.96                3.43                3.5                    3.1
OoeesSlt                      7 ~~~~~2.1237   1,30    (0,2721   4,5761  (13,7527   7,061   1(1,5267   7,970   (12,030)  93,07  ((5.0577   8,4086   14,512;  8,707   (15,005)  10,834    (17,4367   12,3511
Indostrtol                   1    ~~~~571   7,804 1  373)1(1,513          4157 13,129   7 404; 17,752  1   5417  (06020   7   5447 14,967                  620,1 15,880   7   0727   20,017            785)  22,840
ConntrptaO  7  57  19  -                  -                   -                    -                   -                    -                       a   7    ~~~~ ~~~~28)  379
Oilam                                                 776                  543                 532                  770                 SiP                  023                 942                   04400
Saest  Noysl                                     4,plO17044                             20,~222              7,533               27,14)5             23.33               725,029               52,456                 35,970
Eoer,gy geo--on  (Rydr-l                              -                    100                 33                   117                 3069                 324                 491         -         614          -        6872
3-  8"y  opoo- ed (Ther-a)                            4,801                302                  378               1,750               1,971               1,370                1,26          -      1,9                    2,116 
E,  07 Lmpost boo  radio                                413            10,800               21,2701             22,952               78,571              24,455              28,433          -     37,434                 03,144
to.,  2M76I,  Pr---                          7643     721.17   3,230   k163        1,141   75.37        3,133  (12.0)       3,236   112.17      4,200   (71.47    5SI2t   (15.7)         7,693    (13.37        8,827    721.3)
Mi.  eo  d-sao                               1.3               5.n0                 6.75                7.93                0.84                 3.34                8.9                 7.6           -       11,7
962W-Estn   a-d Far Wnstern R0010
Saint
Saenl i                                                    (2.2557   1,304    (7,629)  1,436    (3,271)   5,208    (4,074.)  3,470    (0,478)  3,130    (5,1423   3,675    (5,9137    4.007                 (6,7343    5,340
l.d.sirE.1                                                         557   1,0993 7 71)  1,481    7 907   1,051    1  120)  1,9235                   1487   2,057    7  175)  7,571    7  2107        3,839      7  222)   4,566
Cn,snarrinl                -       -                   ~~~~~~~                                                                 ~         ~~~~~~- ----  -            -                92         -         -
Others                     -       -                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~207   253                 280                 571                  353                 490         -         3884                  433
Sale  in   ea                                                           2,7654               3, 410l             5,133               3,955                3,540               6,626                 8,332          -      20,529
SsporttotoIdii .                                                                                                                                                                            
Osneratlon                                                                                                                                           410                    487~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  9
Enegy g--eetsd(Hydro-                                                      -                    -                   145                 202                  271                 336                                         310
En-roy ge--rtrd(rh-ral(                                                     15                   00                  27                 1769                 180                 205                9,2912,9
tepoet Fran India           -      -                  ~~~~~~~~~3,153       4,067               6,020               76.300               6,606               7,697      1,673      (18.27      2,471    (18.9)
Lain 0876 (Po-eie                             -5 14   7(16.8)                         692   (76.9)    7,039    ((6.87    9.96         (14.0)    7,322    (21.57    1,612    (19.6)   3.3              -                     3,11
Mnoino   de-od-                                       -         0.99                 1.79               0.73                 1.93                2.14                   2.7
Doniesl                                 (07,8077  20,866  (76,7177  01,787  (81,9087  65,679  (89,308) 71,348 (96,6897   77,221 (104.8057  74,823                     NA.   78,570    (718,708)  80,666 (130,0567   118,897-
lonntal                                   770)  8,7927 1,487) 31,i28 7 1,6567  39,036   ( 1,998) 42,7517 2,7127   47,8277   2,5237  52,089    (1,777) 00,202    73,8217   81,280   (3,370)    73,899
-onriai1                                   307   0,399        1 03(   5,173 7   1097 10,405L7           88) 13,0683    767   18,4027             773 25,2044 7162) 26,886            7     177)  24.633        (2087    30,088
Other     V7                                        1,327                I,7i111,972                              2,200               2,292               3,24004,b35                                  8,191        -        9,655
Sail  -nenpnts-                                     1,692               2,462                2,455               2,238               3,003                3,853               3,601                      -. 
Sales Oa Nepal                                     40,910             (07,761              119,591             131 .655            148,563              161 ,249            163,899                 180, 7702349
Eapart' touda                                         -54,940                                6,116               5,970                6,160               5,196                3,765                  5,183                  5,986
Ceneratia                                                                                                      A
E-9ey geneact-(sydrs(                                -                128,814              139,019             153,677             170,319              176,678             175,943             208.296                278,658
E-eegy gso,ratEan(Thermsi3                         59,013               1,880                3,336               3,946                7,1778             18,124              10,096               10,153                 4,8378
Impart fran loOm                                      617              23,522               29,107              30,238              10,626i              58,972              44,750              56,759                 6:1
Loepo   mret)                   19,11    (31.9)    42.965   (27.5)    43,289  (26.9)    54,3724   (28.5)  62,998    28,9             67,329  (28.87    67,130  (28.7)  83,53    (32,3))   108,426  (30. 5)
eaninosd-.sad7'Laad Patr                   5,0     74,17    40.2       (04.37    02.6       (43.3)    50.6      (43,35   52.4      (47,5)      06,9      (46,9)    58,92    (05.0    72,88       (02.9)      83,2      (07.6)
_11  Jasekpr,  Cn,     R ng      -eo   alodnd Eran C-oEel Degi-o  and Deca.dnd On Dasiten Rginnt
2/  FE gores in brokeeagt      n  d-eatl, loonralsd ranari.l ..I.. shanc-sh     ofcaoer
3/  Oo- nerl1 laade i-tIodn  orer  -cpply, irrigation ad  .rios.ort load dastads.
Intrna   OsaraCOo  ad Ipetpe
5/  Msoiso  des,sd L-rlode  the dasand noppDiad Ep Cadiac  ypetan
Load facto  = Sales is Nepalsad Eapoet to ladia e 100
Ifanio  dos ad e 876
6/  Donel IlasOL is Dtldad In Wee-er  Regio..
7/Sas o-der 'Otha-' C-Dg-ey  o-ladn-  feOoosmplo   o  P.82 and 83
A-sly.Ee af Dens
1973/78 DO 1978/79                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1975/76  ta 1982/83                  1970/71 to  1972/78
Mitd & Pan                                              "lId & Par                                         Mid DPar
A, An-ol A-ergs            taCest.  W--ne   E.st--    We--e    Sepal    Centrel  Ident-   Esnen                      Weser    Neps1   Central Wea...E ..N.nr             eseo   es
Dneestir   ae              4.3      16.8       )6.5       363         7,7           8,3      18.2      19.1        22.3        9.8       13.61   43,01    25.05    53.83    16.1
Inda, Itria   Sale        ii.7      60.6      13,3        2'0.3      14.2         D2 .2      23.3      10.3       22,7       12.6       23.89    07,35   20.16    19.15    25.4
Can-arola  Soles          26.2       -          -           -        25.2          13.0      17,0       -           -         18.9      15.60    56.33        -        -       128.1
Tota   8aae.               8.9     21.3        16.7       30,1       11.6         10.7       20.0      13.5       21.8       11.7       15,20    47.10   23.83    39.18    18.2
NoeDee n  D--eti
Cs.......                5.      15.0       13.8        21.8        7.9          6.3       12.5     11.3        21.8        7.9        8.34    29.89    27.38    20.44    10.7
B. Aos-ge   sslles
Censcesers        5~~~,485    973      1,522       607       6,590         4,840     1,027    1,389        662        7,818       5,791  895    1,383        509       6,537'
C. A-esra of A ...I
838   648           665       771          901          827        862      638       748          798






NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Captive Plants
Units
Units        Units        Units        Generated
Year of    Installed   Firm          Type       Generated   Generated   Generated   1982-83
Install-   Capacity    Capacity   of            1979-80      1980-81       1981-82      Estimated
Name                                  Region      ation        (kW)        (kw)        Fuel       (MWh)        (MWh)         (MWh)        (MWh)
Biratnagar Jute Mill                 Eastern      1941         1,400       1,100   Coal/Steam    2,290           1,328          898           -
Biratnagar Jute Mill                 Eastern      1963           850         600   Diesel          1,596           970          880          630
Different small plants
in Eastern Region                 Eastern       1960-83      2,572       2,070   Diesel            929         1,051        1,176        1,320
Birgunj Sugar Mill                   Central      1965-66      2,400       1,900   Steam(Sugar-  2,749           2,262        2,334        2,280
cane fired)
Birgunj Sugar Mill                   Central      1965-66        272        200    Diesel              11           18           20            24
Janakpur Cigarette Factory           Central      1965-66      1,058         800   Diesel          1,485         1,329        1,380        1,420
Different small industries &
private installations inclu-
ding those in Kathmandu            Central      1960-83       3,980      3,080   Diesel            630           641          795          550
Godawari (Agriculture Department) Central         1969              30         30   Hydro              -    Not in operation                  -
Different small industries &
private installations.             Western      1963-83         710        595   Diesel            315           349          388          330
Different small industries &
orivate installations.            Western       1982-83          48         44   Hydro              -             -            -            48
Mahendra Sugar Mill                  Western      1966            750        600   Steam              870          910          961           880
20         15   Diesel            156          229           32            40
Different small industries &         Middle &
private installations             Far Western 1970-83           700        580   Diesel            600           750          830          890
1
14,790    11,614                   11,628        9,837        9,694         8,412 



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Power Exchange with India
ERerzy Exchanged (GWh)
Supply       Comnmitted      Date
Voltage        Power       of Initial      1975-      1976-      1977-     1978-    1979(-    1980-      1981-       1982-
kV             kW          Supply         76         77         78         79       80        81         82         83_
1/  2/                                                                                                                                      (Estimated/Actual)
A.  IMPORT
1. Farwestern & Midwestern Regions
Nahendranagar                     33            1000       July 73        0.360      0.499      0.837     1.116    1.105    1.214          1.420       1.
Dhanghari                         33            1000       Feb 74         0.354      0.473      0.580     0.738    0.722    1.192          1.402       2.765
Nepalguni                         33            2000       Feb 73         2.315      2.947      4.340     4.064    4.469    5.129          4.920       7.556
Koilabas                          33           1000        Feb 74         0.124      0.143      0.245     8.270    0.310    0.162          0.158       0.290
2. Western Region
Krishannagar                      33            1000       Nov 72         0.647      1.158      1.126     1.298    1.588    1.724          1.897       2.483
Bhairahawa                        33            2000       March 73       1.73       2.613      2.538     4.431    5.945    6.445          7.218       5.271
Tribeni                           -             -                         0.042      0.107      0.103     0.135    0.200    0.251         0.281        0.323
3. Central Region
Gaur                              11             300       April 74       0.232      0.300      0.243     0.320    0.320    0.12Y          0.108       0.114
Malangawa                         11             200       April 74       0.156      0.280      0.229     0.208    0.406    0,161          0.563       0.234
Janakpur-Jaleswor                 33            1000       April 74       1.263      1.963      1.791     2.136    0.973    0.387          1.044       0.933
4. Eastern Region
Siraha                            11            200        Feb 75         0.313      0.451     0.529      0.550    0.595    0.630         0.813        0.783
Bhadhrpur                         11           1000        March 75       0.418      0.925      1.202     1.429    0.855    0.996          1.288       1.967
Biratnagar area/ EEC System       33           6800          1954        17.368    17.282    18.963    23.931   21.504   26.332          34.018       39.227
B. EYPORT -
Central System
Rasxul/Birganj                    11           5000        March 73       5.940      6,116     5,970      6,160    5.196    3,765         5,183        5.986
TOTAL IMPORT                                              25.372    29.141    32.726    40.626   38.972   44.733          55.130       63.52k.
TOTAL EXPORT                                               5.940    6.116       5.970      6.160    5.196    3.765         5.183        5.986
1/ Parwestern. Midwestern and Western Regions import from U.P. State Electficity Board.
Central and Eastern Regions import from Bihar State Electricity Board.
2/   All metering and billing is done on GWh basil alone without any demand charge.



- 53 -                           Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Load Forecast - Assumptions
Industrial Load
1.      The load demand of 20 prospective industries 1/ which are likely
to be established by FY92 was estimated year-wise by assuming appropriate
load factor for each type of industry (Table 2). For the remaining
industries, allowance has been made by assuming a certain annual growth
rate for each region as shown below:
Central  Western  Eastern   Far& Mid Western
FY84-92       5        10        10          10
FY87          -         -       3.8 GWh       -
Note: All figures (except 3.8 GWh) indicate an annual % growth rate.
The growth rate in other regions would be more than in the Central Region
because of HMG's plans to establish new industries in other regions. In
FY87, when the Eastern Region is connected to the grid, captive load (3.8
GWh) is likely to be added to the grid system.
Domestic Load
2.      It is estimated that in FY84 the number of new domestic consumers
and consumption per consumer would be as per the following table:
Central Western Eastern Far&Mid Western
New Consumers (Number)    4,000    1,000    1,200          500
Consumption per
Consumer (kWh)             800       650      675        650
During FYs 84 to 91, the annual growth rate in the number of consumers
would be 6% in the Central Region and 7% in other regions. It is also
estimated that there would be an annual increase of 2% in the consumption
of previous consumers in the Central Region and 1% in other regions.
1/   A list of 48 industries was handed over to the mission by ED and NEC.
After detailed discussion, it was agreed that 20 industries were at
such a stage that their demand could be considered as definite.



-    -                               Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Commercial Load
3.      It is estimated that two large hotels (Kathmandu and Sherpa) which
are under construction in Kathmandu would be completed in 1984. Their
consumption requirement is expected to be 5.3 and 6.0 GWh. For commercial
loads other than the above big hotels, a growth rate of 10% has been
assumed for the period FY83-92.
4.      Transport.  The present transport load consists of the Kath-
mandu-Hetauda ropeway and the Kathmandu city electric tramway. It is
intended to upgrade the ropeway and extend the tramway bus to the airport.
The load required for these extensions has been estimated and included in
the forecast.
5.      Street Lighting.  A small growth of 5% per annum is assumed in all
regions.
6.      Bulk Supply to India.  As mentioned in para 1.35, Nepal and India
have entered in a mutual agreement to exchange power. For purpose of load
forecast it is assumed that Nepal would export to India the power which is
already committed. This would be 5 MW (22 GWh per year).
7.      Self Consumption.  Self consumption consists of power used by NEC
in its works, substations and for auxiliaries of generating stations. It
is assumed to be 2% of sales.



Acres 9
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation
Load Forecasi
--------eirt---------
Streat         Self-    Expert        Total                    itteg 1/
rritgatiot &             Light6  Tetal  Consoa-  to             Requi-                  rated
.    Rogino    Do-esti  lodastrial  Cot ercie1 Water Supply  Trantport Others  S e ion    Iodia  Locses r-meot   Nepal NEC    Systen                     Year
(Cot)     (Ol)          (G       V     h         (O)        (GWh3   (     (Oh )    (GWh)    %    ()(h        )           (GCh) (MD)
82/83  Central    90.9        40.8        21.0         5.4          1.5       4.5    164.1   3.5      6.0    33.5  261.4      346.8  333.8 287.9  69.1   82/83
Western    10.1         5.7         0.6         1.2          -         0.5     18.1   0.3       -     33.5   26.5        -      -     -
Eastern    12.4        22.8         0.4         -             -        0.1     30.7   1.5             21.1  45.9
Mid-West
6Far West  5.5          4.6         -           -            _         0.2     10.3  0.2        -     19.0   13.0
83/84  Central    95.9        45.7        34.4       16.8           1.5       4.7    199.0   4.0     22.0    30.0  321.4      .15.6  401.7 351.9  82.8  83/H4
WCrsern    11.0         6.3         0.7       205            -         0.5     21.0  0.4        -     30.0   30.5              -     -
Eastern    13.3        25.1         0.4         -            -         0.1     38.9   1.0       -     20.0  49.8        -      -      -   -         -
Mi d-West
4Fay West  5.9          5.1         -           -            -         0.2     11.2   0.2       -     18.0   13.9        -
84/15  Central   101.2        53.8        37.8        18.3          1.5       5,D    217.6  4.3      22.0    28.0  338.7      ;46.8  431.9 378.7  89.1  84/85
Western    11.9        10.1         0.8        0.1           -         0.5    28.4  0.6         -     28.0  40.2
eeters    14.3         27.6         0.5         -            -         0.1     42.5   1.0       -     18.0   53.0
Mid-West
6Fer Wost  6.4          5.7         -           -             -        0.2     L2.3   0.2       -     16.0   14.9
85/86  Ce        156.8        65.6        41.6       23.6           1.6       5.2    244.4   4.9       22.0    25.0  361.7   _t7.8  471.4 415.0  94.7   85/86
Weern    12 9          14.0         0.9        7.9           -         0.6     36.3   0.7             25.0   5.3
Eastern    15.3        30.4         0.5         -            -         0.1     46.3   1.1             16.0  56.4
Mld-West
SPar Cest  6,9          6.4         -           -            -         0.2     13.5  0.3              16.0   16.4
86/87  Central   112.8        92.3        45.8       24.8           1.7       5.5    282.9   5.6     22.0    24.0  408.6      562.0  544.4 544.4  124.3  86/87
Western    14.0        18,3         1.0        9.3           -         0.6     43.2   0.9             24.0  58.0
Eastero    16.4        37.5         5.6       16.0           -         0.1    64.6   1.5              15,0  77.8
Mid-West-
Fs, West   7.4          7.1         -           -            -        0.2      14.7  0.3              15.0   17.6
87/88  C,nttai   119.1       112.6        50.3       26.0           1.8       5.7    315.5   6.3     22.0    23.0  446.5     629.6  410.4 629.6  143.7  87/88
Westpro    15.1        20.1        I1.         10.8          -         0.6     47.7   U 9             23.0   63.1
Eastern    17.8        41.6         0.6       23,6           -         0.2     83.3   1.9             15.0  1DO.8
:tid-Westl
Far West   7.9          7.8         -           -            -         0.3     16.0  0.3              15.0   19.2
88/89  Central   125.0       133,9        55.4       27.3           1.9       6.0    350.3   7.0     22.0    12.0  486.2     696.5  673.7 696.5  109.0  88/89
Western    16.3        22.1         1.2       11.9           -         0.7     32.2   1.0             12,0  68.2
tEotero    19.1        46.1         3.7       34.8           -        0.2    100.9  2.2               15.0  121.3
Mld-West64
FLr Went    8.5         8.6         -           -            -        0.3      17.4  0.3              10.0  20.8
89/90  Cestral   132.0       143.2        61.0       28.7           2.0       6.3    374.0   7.5     22.0   21L0  510.7       744.8  722.1 744.8  170.0  89/90
Wes_n    17 5          24.3         1.3       13.1                    0.7      56.9  1,1              20.0   72.5
Eastern    20.3        50.7         0.8       43.4                     3.2    110.6   2.0            I1.0  138.9
ltd- Was6t9
Fee West   9.1          9.5         -           -                      0.3     18.9  0.4              15.1  22.7
90/91  CentraW   140.3       153.0        67.0       30.1          2.1        6.6    399,1   8,0     22.0   20.0  536.4       795.1  770.2 795.1  181.3  90/91
Westarn    18.8        26.7         1.4       13.0           -         0.7     62.6   1.0             18,0  77.8
Eastern    22.0        55.8         0.9       52.5           -        0.2    131.4   2.8              14.0  156.0
Mid-WestlS
F.s WCst   9.7         10.5         -          2.3            -        0.3     21.0   3.4             14.0  24.9
91/92  Central   147.9       160.7        73.7       31             2.2       7.0    422.5   8.4     22.0    20,1  566.1   868.4 840.0 868.4  198.2 3/ 91/92
Western    20 2        29.4         1.6       17.1                     0.8     69.1   1.4             18.0   85.9
Eastern    23.6        78.4         1.0       55.1                     0.2    158.3   3.4             14.0  188.0
Kid-West&
Par WCst  10.4         11.5         -          1.7                     0.3     23.9   0.3             14.0  28.4
92/93                                                                                                                                    955.2 209.7  92/93
93/94                                                                                                                                   1050.7 230.7  93/94
94/95                                                                                                                                   1155.8 253.7  94/95
95/96                                                                                                                                   1271.4 279.1  95196
96/97                                                                                                                                   1398.6 307.0  96/97
97/98                                                                                                                                   1538.4 337.7  97/98
98/99                                                                                                                                   1692.3 371.5  98/99
99/00                                                                                                                                   1861.5 408.6  99/00
Maxitu= Demands rt Iepsrtant
Aansesl AOerage Gro-th Rates (7  of Sales Betaeen FY83 to FY92    Lsad Centers (FY82)             Petentage Share         FY83  FY92
Central Western  Eantern  M6F Western   Total         Kathnaodo    45 MW             Doees.ti   sales          52.0   30.0
Bleatag-r    6 MW             Ond-stal. sales            32.0   41.0
Domestic       5.6      8.0     7.4        7.3         6.1          Otrgang       3 K1w           Cemmert.ia  sales          10.0  11.0
Iodootrial    16.5    20.0    14.7        10.7        15.9         hetasda        3 MW            Irrtgation sales           3.0  16.0
cm-ierelal    15.0     11.5    10.7         -         14.8          Bhali         3 MW            Other aales                 3.0   2.0
Oroteanino    21 4     34.3   40.7          -         36.0         Poktacs        2 MW
Tstal         LL.1     16.0   10.0         9.8         12.8         Janakper    1.5 MW                        Total         100.0  100.0
Buteal        1 MWI
Tarsen        I MW
1/ Mont of the Western Regien is noi intertonnected oith the Control Region
through 132kV Bharatper-Pnkhara., 33kv CsndAk-Bat-al linen. Complete
inteoratios of Weotero Region ovil take plane it PY87.  Ca orE
-e-culating M.D. of integeated system it is .s.a.ed that Western Region
in already integrated.
2/ Aatol. toad factor is assnmed 48.5% through FY85, 50E throogh FY92
aod 52i bhyond FY93.
3/ Ass-al groeth rate of energy from FY92 o--asdo is 10%.



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Load Forecast - New Industrial Loads
Increment of Ener y Requirement (Sales)
Location              Source of             M D      83/84    84/85   85/86    86/87   87/88    88/89  89/90  90T91  91/92
Name                      (Region)l/              Funda               kW                                             (MWh)
1.  Nepal Vegetable Ghee Factory          Hetauda        (C)   NIDC/Private           1,000    1,100        -       -        -         -         -
2.  Himalya Brewery                       Kathmandu    (C)   NIDC/Private               200       263       -        -
3.  Dry Cell Battery Plant                Kathmandu    (C)   NIDC/Union Carbide    320            840       -        -        -         -         -       -      -       -
4.  Hetauda Cement Plant (i) Plant        Hetauda        (C)   ADB/HMG                8,500        -        -        -     13,154   13,154   13,154
(ii) Quarry    Bhainse        (C)   ADB/HMG                1,000        -        -        -       1,241     1,241     1,241
5. Magnesite Plant
i) Dead Burnt Ngn.                  Lamosangu    (C)   IFC                     2,000        -        -      2,628    2,628       -         -               -       -
ii) Refractory brick                 Birguni       (C)   IDBI(India)            1,000        -        -        -        -        1,314     1,314
iii) Extraction Plant                 KhairidhunJa (C)   HMG                       400        -        -      1,050    1 050       -         -
6.  Paper Factory                         Gaidakot       (C)   China/HNG              2,000        -      3,504   3,504    3,504        -         -       _       _       _
7.  Lead & Zinc Mining Project            Rusawa         (C)   India/HMG/IFC          2,000        -        -        -        -         -         _    2,628   2,628   -                U,
8.  Pilot Foundry Project                 Pattan         (c)   UNIDO                  1,000        -        -       ,314    1,314       -         -       -       -       -              
9.  Hulas Steel Industry                  Simra          (C)   NIDC/Private             800       526    1,578       -        -         -         -       -       _       _
(pipes & galvanizing, etc.)
10. Balaju Textile Mill                   Balaju         (C)   NIDC/HMG                  90       105       105
11. Brick Factory                         Kathmandu    (C)   NIDC/Private               188        -        275      275       275      -
12. Sound Equipment                       Kat1nandu    (C)   Private                    120        -        105      105       105                -
13. Beer Factory                          Pattan         (C)   NIDC/Private             160        -        200      200       200      -
14. Paper Mill                            Rupandehi    (W)   NIDC/Private             2,000        -      2,750   2,450    2,4-50       -
15. Brown Sugar Mill                      Parasi         (W)   NIDC/Private             160        -        116      116       116      -
Nawal Parasi (W)   NIDC/Private              160        -        116      116       116      -
16. Aluminium Conductor                   Rupandehi    (W)   NIDC/Private               160        -        186      186       186      -
17. Resin 4 Turpentine                    Nepalguni  (F.W)   Ruasia/HMG                 170        -        100      100       100      -         -       _      _       _
18. Fruit Processing                      Biratnagar   (E)   NIDC/Private                80        -         -        -         58        58        58   -       -       _
19. Brown Sugar                           Dhanushe       (E)   NIDC/Private             160        -         -        -        116       116       116   -       _       - _ 
Sunsari       (E)   NIDC/Private             160        -         -        -        116       116       116   -        -       -
20. Cement Factory                        Udaypur        (E)   India/HMG             12,000        -         _-                         -                         -   17000
1/ E - Eastern, W - Western, C - Central, FW - Far-Western



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Load Forecast - New Irrigation Loads
Increment of Energy Requirement (Sales (MWh)
Max Demand    Annual                                                                                          Financing
Name of Project                  Region 1/    MW        Load Factor  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92 Arrangements
1.  Narayani Lift Irrigation       C        6,280           32          -    3,600  10,443   -       3,753           -       -          -           -     ADB/NMG
2.  Lumbini I, 1I & III Phase       W       3,200           30          -    1,168   1,168  2,336  2,336   -         -       -       -      -       -     IDA/HMG
(ground water)
3.  Birgunj Ground Water            C       1,200           25          -       -       650    650    650   -        -       -       -      -             IDA/HMGO
4.  Raibirag Lift Irrigation        E       4,170           34          -       -       -      -       -    3,097  6,225 3,097    -         -             Govt. of India
5.  Janakpur Agriculture            E       6,000           34          -       -       -      -       -    3,540  3,540 3,540   3,540  3,540             Govt. of
(ground water)                                                                                                                                      Japan/NMG
6.  Sagarmatta Project              E        5,610           34         -       -       -      -       -    3,340  3,340 3,340   3,340  3,340             ADB/HMG
(ground water)
7.  Marchur Lift Irrigation         W          790          34          -       _       _      _       -       600    600  -         -       600   600   UNCDF/IHMG
8.  Kailali Ground Water           FW       2,720           25          -       -       -      -       -       -     -      -        -        500 1,200   hMG                   x
1/  C - Central
-   W - Western
E - Eastern
FW- Far Western



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDRO ELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Maximum Demand and Installed Capacity of Grid System
CAPACITY M.W    STATUS OF
PnANi        TYPE  StPA-  WiN-  COSWISSKaN
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~  ~   ~   &~~~~~~~R  TERl  __ __ __G
EXISTINGG
300                                                    0                                                                                               Kulekhanir - I        H    60.0   60.0
2.01  S   2    U  ffi                  iisrsull                                                                             H    180    150
30                                                                                              Sunkosi               H    10.0    5 1
0-                                                                          ~~~~~~      ~    ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~Gandal,  H    150    TUB8
0l i7  i-   Y  ff                                                                 209 7                   lDerv ginat       H    141    108
o    0      z (L                                                                                      Small H-ydros         H     5.8    5 8
0 200-                   Z                                                          253.4                                  S                  D    19.5   195
250-                                             Z                                      r                                                                Sub-Total               142A   1270 
0       1149
82o                               C                        .8 P. .....u..li(OneUnrl)   H   3.0  3.0  Dec 1984
w            ~~           ~~~~z  Cr um Sulb-Total                                                                                              1454  130 0
Q                                                                                          2307,
691 a    f                                                                                                                   20           /  75E8 -MAXTSIO       DEMAND
~~~~~~~~~I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~198.2                                                      (1) Diesels           0     2 2    2 2    June 1986
200-                  0~~~ 1584                                    17.                                                                             KoserReio          H     68      6 8    Jue18
0~~~~                                                                                        ~      ~~~~~~                 ~ 1  *6181587 4          FM Western Region   D       1 0    1.0   June 1987
Kulekhtani - 11      H    320    32 0    Oct 1986
SL)  z                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70.0
6   1,50-                                                        143_7 158.6
l?__           Na 11..\ 72.                                                                                 \Le/gendloa                                                                  40      Jl18
1590.                  14845aryng 626.
t 1985        18        142.4          1485.       198            1437       198          198          199          1991      1678           1993_____                                       Wald     ______
89AR (W-WINTER  eS   SA C                                                                                                 CY      IM
82.8         A          /       99A                                                                                                     ........ N.             CAPACITY IN WINTER
691            -.% /         'v                                                                                                                   - - - -  -MAXIMUM DEMAND
71,2        7
66,2
50-
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W     S    WI      $     W      S         WI SIW                       S    WI      S     W     SI    W      S     WI     S     w      S    W
1982     1983         1984         1985         1986        1987         1988         1989         1990         1991         1992        1993                                            Wortd Bank -24622 
YEAR (W - WINTER. S - SUMMER)                                                                                                                                          0:



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
0  2 0 0  08 is  is       201-
(<n-       '~    '  -'<
A. LAYOUT WEIR AND SETTLING BASIN
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HXdX. Tu-1
20 Settlih Y08d
>  \           9 1~C-,-ituk tuir 
GENERAL LAYOUT                             roAI MNr 0                                1       2CO(m
LONGITUDINAL SECtION THROUGH HEADRACE tUNNEL                                                   -                                   T
t 0 0 r _ s = i zo B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: LAYOUT POWERHO USE MARE
-   -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -r -  0      -   -   -   -   -   -   - -   -   -     i0-
_  dorrCor,Wold 1      M57



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
3N1  MAItSYAN(4[ I  zI l\  [I
331        3,30                          0 .                 1_
SC ALE
318}
370                                                                       7
e,o
SFCIION B-B                                                                                 SECTION C-C
~~~.                                                         330 5                  3381                                0 33                             33
43/t}                                                                                                                                                        J577 i 9 3630 91 acEontAtot  tWo,3
.  .  t\ _ as~~~~~~~o sndOcted in                     2 Setting ttstsn                                 _                                                                                O NrT   
W F l) ~~~~~~~~~~drn,Aum 00 24S5          6      3 Flelthing Strcture  
l ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 6eodrone lunnel                                                                  _
ilo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ug ot
340 I \i 8 Fb_y StCtiCm e _ t130   3     3      z53 5  2_
SECTIO                                                                                      SECNSECTION  D-F
370                                                                                                          33 0 b
~~~~~~~~~~~33 0                           A i9. -           I W.-"\                                                                                          3230
260    I,  713   \ i  370 ' 144    o - tZ20 1 F80 {                                                SECTION E-E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                             2 S i "i <Wng BA 0 |
SECTION7       F1-FWStt,



- 61                                  Annex 12  -
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Project Details
General
1.      The project aims at developing the potential of Marsyangdi River
on a 13 km stretch where a gross head of about 90 meter is available. A
diversion weir with power intake on the right side, a desilting basin, a
head race tunnel, a surge tank and a power station with 3 units of 23 MW
each each will be built for power generation. For important basic data of
the project refer to Table 1 at the end of the Annex.
Diversion Weir
2.      A 98 m wide gated diversion weir, founded on rock, will be con-
structed about 13 km upstream of the power station site to divert water
for power generation.  The weir will comprise 5 bays, with each bay having
a radial gate. Energy dissipation downstream of the weir is obtained by a
58.5 m long hydraulic jump type horizontal stilling basin.
3.      The average bed level of the river of the weir site is 315.0
m a s 1. The normal operating reservoir level during wet summer season is
333 m a s 1. Because of high transport of sediment, it is expected that a
sediment delta with crest level at or about 330.0 m a s 1 will form in
the reservoir.  The weir crest level in the three left bays is designed at
324.0 m a s 1 and that in the two eight bays is a meter lower at 323.0
m a s 1. The purpose of different crest settings is to develop a lower
bed level opposite the power intake by selective operation of the weir
bays during medium to high flows. Relevant model studies carried out at
Karlsruhe University are part of Project documents file.
4.      The maximum operating level during dry winter season (November
through May) is 337.5 m a s 1. At this elevation, the reservoir has a
surface area of 62 ha.  The reservoir can be drawn down to 333.0 m a s 1
to provide a compensation pondage of 1.5 million cubic meter (cu.rt) under
the reservoir-silted condition. The daily regulation of level between
337.5 and 333.0 m a s 1 will enable the project to meet the system peak
demand of 69 MW during winter. The pondage capacity is approximately
equivalent to 9 hours when the plant is operated continuously at 69 MW.



-62-                                    Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
Settling Basin
5.      A settling basin with an effective length of 400 m, width of 75 m
and depth of 10 to 12 m is provided to remove sediment particles of .05 mm
and larger sizes. The storage volume of basin is 70,000 cu.m for 3 meter
depth of deposit.  Sediment removal capacities and flushing periods for
the basin are described in Annex 13.
Flushing Structure
6.      The flow in the basin is regulated by a flushing structure which
has a crest level of 322.0 m a s 1. This structure which is partly
founded on rock and partly oil alluvium, comprises 2 bays, each bay fitted
with 15.8 m high radial gates with flaps.
Power Intake
7.      At the righthand end of the settling basin just upsteam of the
flushing structure, the turbine flow is led into a relatively small tran-
sition pond and then to intake structure.
8.      The entrance section of intake is 11.5 m high, 11 m wide and is
provided with a trash rack.  The section reduces to bulk head section of 6
m high and 5 m wide.
Headrace Tunnel
9.      The tunnel, which is 7,100 m long and has 6.4 m diameter and which
will be concrete lined, will be excavated by New Austrain Tunneling Method
which has proven to be the fastest and most economical method for the
geology similar to that encountered at site. Shotcrete will be used to
control loosening of the rock after excavation of cavity. In fault zones,
rockbolts and post-tensioned rock anchors will be used.  In cases, where
self-supporting time for the rock mass does not allow shotcrete or rock-
bolts and anchors to be placed, arch steel supports will be used. The
tunnel will be grouted along the entire length and adequate drainage will
be provided to relieve external water pressure.
Surge Tank
10.     The surge tank has been designed to accomodate extreme operating
conditions such as sudden full load rejection or sudden full load
increase. Computed oscillations in the transition pond are negligible.
For emergency shut off and for inspection of pressure shaft and butterfly
valve without emptying the head race tunnel, an emergency shut off gate is
provided on the downstream side of the surge tank.



63                                  Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
Powerstation
11.     Three generating units will be installed in individual 14.4 m
diameter, 34 m deep, concrete lined shafts. At the turbine floor level,
the shafts will be interconnected by a gallery. A gantry crane will
service the generators, turbines and valves.  Individual passenger
elevators and staircases will be provided in the three shafts.
Diversion Works
12.     The construction area for the diversion weir will be enclosed by
cofferdams with crest elevation 334.5 m a s 1 at upstream end and 326.0
m a s 1 at downstream end. River flows will be passed through the set-
tling basin excavated as a 500 m long, 75 m wide diversion channel. The
channel can pass the construction period design flood of 3,354 cu.m/sec
with a water surface elevation of 333.10 m upstream of the upper coffer-
dam.
Turbines
13.     Francis type turbines have been selected for the power station.
The turbines will have vertical shafts and will be coupled to generators
with an intermediate shaft. The turbines will be equipped with one guide
bearing located close to the runner. The turbine runner and guide vanes
will be of nickle chrome cast steel to resist cavitation and erosion.
Each turbine will be fitted with a hydraulic type governor and a butterfly
valve.
Electrical Equipment
Generators and Other Equipment
14.     There will be 3 synchronous generators each rated at 11 kV, 30 MVA
and power factor of 0.85 lag. There will be an upper thrust bearing,
common to generator and turbine.  Each generator will be connected to a
bank of single phase transformers through 11 kV dry bus bar. There will
be 11 kV switchgear close to each generator. Two stepdown transformers of
1000 kVA each will be provided for station use. The main transformers
will consist of 3 banks of 11/132 kV, 30 MVA each. The banks will be
formed by single phase units, one single phase unit will be spare.
Marsyangdi Switchyard
15.     The 132 kV side of power transformers will be connected to Mar-
syangdi Switchyard through an overhead span of line. 132 kV breakers will
be of 20 kA breaking capacity. There will be a single u-shaped bus bar
with bypass facility for breakers on Bharatpur and Kathmandu lines.



- 64-                                Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
Transmission Lines and Local Distribution
16.     The new transmission lines have been proposed after detailed
system studies.  The present highest system voltage in Nepal is 132 kV and
the proposed transmission voltage will aLso be 132 kV. There will be 2
single circuit lines (i) from Marsyangdi to Balaju (90 km) and (ii) from
Marsyangdi to Bharatpur (40 km).  The toers will be of galvanized steel
self-supporting lattice type. In addition, existing 11kV line between
Balaju-Lainchaur in Kathmandu will be upgraded to 66 kV with a 66 kV
substation at Lainchaur with a provision for 2 transformers of 66/11 kV,
10 MVA each.
132 kV Balaju Substation
17.     132 kV line from Marsyangdi will be terminated at a new 132 kV
substation which will be located close to the existing 66 kV substation.
There will be a bank of 132/66 kV, 45 MVL transformer.  There will be a
single 132 kV bus bar with provision to convert it to double bus bar later
on. 132 kV and 66 kV breakers will be 20 kA and 12.5 kA breaking capacity
respectively.
132 kV Bharatpur Substation
18.     Under the proposed project one 132 kV bay will be added to 132 kV
Bharatpur substation to terminate Marsyangdi-Bharatpur line.



5 -                                  Annex 12
Table 1
Page 1 of 5
IMPORTANT BASIC DATA
Hydrology
a. Catchment area                                    3850 km2
b. Mean annual flw                                   6596 Mm3 (209 m3/sec)
c. Maximum recorded flood                            3354 mi3/sec
d. 1000-year flood                                   5870 m3/sec
e. Design flood                                      9100 m3/sec
f. Probable maximum flood                           12300 m3/sec
g. Minimum recorded flow                               33 m3/sec
h. 95% probability low flow                            35.6/sec
Diversion Structure (Gated)
a. Operating water level(summer)                      333.0 meters above sea
level (m a s 1)
b. Operating water level range(winter)                337.0 to 333.0 m a s 1
c. Crest elevation - weir                             324.0 m a s 1
- under sluice                   323.0 m a s I
d. No. of bays      - weir                              3
- under sluice                     2
e. Width of each bay                                   16   meters
f. Top levels of pier                                 339.5 meters
g. Average bed level                                  315.0 m a s 1
h. Invert level of stilling basin                     312.0 m a s 1
Pondage
a. Surface area at elevation of 337.5 m.a.s.l.         62.0 ha
b. Volume between elevation 333.0 and 337.5
m.a.s.l. (after sedimentation)                     1.5 million cubic meter
Flushing Structure (Gated)
a. No. of bays                                          2
b. Gate width                                          16 meter
c. Pier level                                         339.5 m a s 1
d. Sill level                                         322.0 m a 4 1
Headrace Tunnel (Lined)
a. Length                                            7058 meter
b. Diameter                                             6.4 meter
c. Thickness of Lining                                  0.50 - 0.60 meter
d. Longitudinal slope                                   0.29%



-66-                                 Annex 12
Table 1
Page 2 of 5
Surge Shaft
a. Inner diameter                                     20.5 meter
b. Height                                             50 meter
Pressure Shaft
a. Length                                             75 meter
b. Diameter                                            5 meter
c. Thickness of lining                                 1-2 cm
Tailrace Tunnel
a. Section                                         Rectangular with circular
vault as crown
b. Dimension                                      4.5 m high x 4.5 m wide
c. Length                                         30, 35, 40 m
d. Overflow sill at end of outlet                  242.5 m a s 1
e. River bed level downstream of outlet           242.0 m a s 1
f. Max tail water level at PMF                    270.5 m a s 1
Construction Period Flood Disposal
a. Peak flow                                     3354 m3/s
b. Cofferdam crest level (upstream)               334.5 m a s 1
Cofferdam crest level (downstream)             326.0 m a s 1
c. Discharge channel - length                     500 meter
- bed width                  75 meter
- side slope                2:1
Design Flood Disposal
a. Flood level                                     337.3 m a s 1
b. Weir bays                                     4505 m3/s
c. Undersluice bays                              3389 m3/s
d. Flushing structure                            1206 m3/s
e. Flood level with one weir bay closed           338.8 m a s 1
Probable Maximum Flood Disposal
a. Flood level                                     339.0 m a S
b. Weir bays                                     5812 m3/s
c. Undersluice bays                              4218 m3/s
d. Flushing structure                            2270 m3/s



- 67
Annex 12
Table 1
Page 3 of 5
Diversion Structure Gates
a. Type                                            Radial
b. No. of gates                                       5
c. Width of gates                                   16.0 meter
d. Height of gates- weir                            13.8 meter
- undersluice                   14.8 meter
e. Width of flap gates (2 nos)                      14.0 meter
f. Height of flap gates(2 nos)                       2.0 meter
g. Operation                                       Oil hydraulic servomotor
h. Stop logs                                         1 set
i. Top elevation of closed gates                  337.8 meters
Flushing Structure Gates
a. Type                                            Radial
b. No. of gates                                      2
c. Width                                           16.0 meter
d. Height of gates                                 15.8 meter
e. Width of flap gates                             13.5 meter
f. Height of flap gates                             2.8 meter
g. Operation                                      Oil hydraulic servomotor
h. Stop logs                                      Common to diversion structure
Intake Bulkhead Gate
a. Type                                            Roller gate
b. Size                                           6.0 m high x 5.0 m wide
c. Operation                                      With mobile crane
Emergency Gate
a. Type                                            Roller gate
b. Size                                            5.0 m high x 4.6 m wide
c. Operation                                      Oil hydraulic servomotor
Tailrace Bulkhead Gate
a. Type                                            Roller gate
b. Size                                           4.5 m high x 4.5 m wide
c. Operation                                       Electric gantry crane
Lifting Cranes
a. Operation                                       Electric
b. Powerhouse crane                               90 tons main hoist
10 ton auxiliary hoist
c. Draft tube crane                                16 ton



- 68 -
Annex 12
Table 1
Page 4 of
Turbines
a. Number                                          Three
b. Type                                            Francis
C. Rated Output                                    23 MW
d. Guaranteed Max. Output                          26 MW
e. Rated speed                                    300 r.p.m.
f. Rated discharge                                3x33m3/s
g. Winter gross head: maximum                      95.0 m (337.5 m-242.5 m)
minimum                    90.5 m (333.0 m-242.5 m)
h. Winter net head:   maximum                      85.2 m
minimum                    82.3 m
i. Summer gross head                               90.5 m (333.0-242.5)
Summer net head - (1000 m3/s)                  76.4 m
( 200 m3/s)                 79.1 m
j. Winter output   -  maximum                      70.7 MW
-  minimum                    69.6 MW
k. Summer output   - (1000 m3/s)                  65.4 MW
= ( 200 m3/s)                 67.7 MW
In winter maxmum turbine discharge is assumed as 97 m3/s and in summer, it is
assumed as 99 m3/s because available net head in winter is more than in
summer.
Butterfly Valve
a. Inlet/outlet dia.                               2.5/2.2 m
b. Elevation of centre line                     242 m as 1
c. Maximum operation pressure                   132 m w c
d. Closing and opening time                      30 sec
Generators
a. Number                                          3
b. Rated output                                  30 MVA
c. Rated voltage                                 1.1.0 kV+ 7.5%
d. Rated frequency                               50 cycles
e. Rated speed                                  300 r.p.m.



- 69-                                   Annex 12
table 1
Page 5 of 5
Transformers
a. Step Up Transformers Marsyangdi)
b. Number                                       Ten units for 3 banks (inclu-
ding one spare unit)
c. Type                                         ONAN
d. Rating                                       11/76.2kV single phase, each
unit IOMVA with off load tap
changer hLaving + 2x2.5% taps
on 1V side.
e. Connection                                   Delta/Star
Step Down Transformers (Balaju)
a. Number                                       Four units for 1 bank (inclu-
ding one spare unit)
b. Type                                         ONAN
c. Rating                                       76.2/38.1kV single phase, each
unit 15 MVA with on load tap
changer + 8x1.25% taps on
HV side.
d. Connection                                   Star/Star
Transmission Line
a. Rated voltage                                132 kV single circuit
b. Type of towers                               lattice steel, self-supporting
c. Conductor                                    ACSR 300 mm2
d. Earth Wire                                   Single 68.1 mm2
e. Normal span                                  350 m



-70 -                                    Annex 13
Page 1 of
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWERI PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Hydrology and SedimentatLon
A. Hydrology
General
1.      The drainage area of Marsyangdi River lies within Gandaki Basin,
between latitudes 27-50- and 28-40- North and longitudes 84-10- and 84-40
East. The catchment area at the dam site is 3,850 sq.km. It is kidney
shaped and is about 140 km long and 40 km wide and is divided into two
physiographic regions. The upper catchment, 1,980 sq.km, comprises a
large mountain valley in the inner Himalayan zone with a valley floor
level of 3,000 m a s 1. The lower catchment, 1,870 sq.km., with valley
floor elevations of 300-3,000m a s 1  is separated from the upper catch-
ment by a deep narrow gorge through which Marsyangdi breaks out of the
Great Himalayan Range. The gradient of the main river is steep and varies
between 0.36 and 2.0 percent. The side walls of valley are also steep and
range from nearly vertical cliffs to 20 percent slope. Near the weir site
the river slope has been measured to be about 0.4%.
Climate
2.      Due to large range of altitude and topography, the climate varia-
tion within the catchment is considerable. The upper catchment has a much
lower average annual rainfall - 1,500 mm compared to 3,300 mm in the lower
catchment. The lower catchment is under the general influence of the
Sub-Continental climate pattern and has two distinct seasons: the wet
summer monsoon season and the dry winter season. About 80 percent of the
annual precipitation occurs during the wet season.
3.      Climatological data in Marsyangdi catchment are scarce.  However,
about 15 years of temperature data are available at Gorkha (28-00'N,
84-37'E) which lies just outside the south-eastern boundary of the lower
catchment, at an elevation of 1,135 m. The mean maximum temperature
during the year varies in a range from 17.7 C (January) to 29.5 C (May)
and the mean minimum temperature varies from 7.6 C (January) to 20.2 C
(July). The relative humidity varies from 49% (April) to 88% (July and
August).
4.      Although no evaporation records are available for Marsyangdi
Catchment for the Gandaki Basin, in general, the mean annual evaporation
varies with elevation and is about 1,900 mm at 100 m and 900 mm at 2,000
m.



Annex 13
- 71 -                                  Page 2 of 5
Rainfall
5.      There are seven non-recording rain gauges in the Marsyangdi Catch-
ment. Of these, the five gauges in the lower catchment were established
between 1956 and 1957 and the other two in the upper catchment area
between 1974 and 1975.
Runoff
6.      There are two stream gauging stations in the catchment area.
Goplin Ghat station on Marsyangdi River is located 250 m upstream of the
proposed weir site. It was established in 1973 and has a stable rating
curve. The other gauge on Chepe Khola, a tributory joining Marsyangdi
River about 15 km upstream of the weir site, was established in 1964. The
runoff data of Goplin Ghat station has been used, in conjunction with the
rainfall data in the lower catchment, to determine the flood and low flow
estimates for the project.
7.      The low flows at Goplin Ghat show a relatively small variation
from year to year and the ratio of maximum to minimum flow rate is large
compared to many other streams in the basin. This is attributed to rela-
tively larger and consistent snow-melt component of Marsyangdi flow.
Monthly flows (cu.m/sec), mean and on 95% probability basis are given
below:
Jan   Feb    Mar   Apr   May  Jun    Jul   Aug    Sep    Oct   Nov    Dec
43.25 37.80 35.55 39.63 56.21 87.7 331.50 427.0 229.70 132.95 81.46 54.90 1/
50.6 43.2 40.4 56.7 97.3 222.40 555.9 609.8 439.80 194.1 104.0 66.6 2/
Flood Flow
8.      The proposed project does not involve significant storage and the
downstream habitations are at high level terraces, so that the failure of
weir during flood will not endanger human life. The design flood for the
project has, therefore, been selected as Assumption A flood, following
U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Criteria. For this purpose, a 6-hour duration
unit graph was developed. It is based on isolated and nearly uniform
precipitation events in the lower catchment and it uses a constant
infiltration rate of 7 mm/hour. Runoff hydrograph with 100-year and
probable maximum precipitation storms has been calculated and arranged to
obtain the project design flood which has a peak flow rate of 9,100 cubic
meter/sec. The probable maximum flood derived by convoluting the probable
maximum precipitation with the above unitgraph, has a peak flow rate of
12,300 cubic meter/sec. A construction period design flood of 3,354 cubic
1/ On 95% probablity basis.
2/ On mean monthly flow basis.



- 72-                                  Annex 13
Page 3 of 5
meter/sec has been adopted. This is equal to the maximum discharge
measured at Goplin Ghat site so far.
9.      In view of the short duration of annual flood series, available
sufficient reliance cannot be placed in the frequency analysis. Regional
flood frequency analysis, based on Gandaki Basin Study has
therefore been used to estimate the magnitude of flood of different return
periods as follows:
Return Period          Flood Peak
(Years)          (Cubic meterfsec)
2                  1,729
10                  2,896
100                  4,490
1,000                  5,870
Flood Handling
10.     The diversion weir is designed to pass 7,500 cu.m/sec peak dis-
charge, at a reservoir level of 337.3 m a s 1 with all of the 5 bays
running. Flood flows between 7,500 m/sec and the design flood of 9,100
m/sec will be passed through the settling basin. In the event of one weir
bay going out of commission, the discharge capaciLty of the weir is 6,500
cu.m/sec with a reservoir elevation of 338.8 m a s 1. The balance of
design flood, 2,600 cu.m/sec will then be passed through the settling
basin. The project is also flood proofed for the probable maximum flood
discharge of 12,300 cu.m/sec flowing through the weir bays and the balance
through the settling basin.
Low Flows
11.     Low flow estimates for different months have been made by fre-
quency analysis of runoff data at Goplin Ghat.  These estimates show that
the minimum daily flow occurs in the month of March. The minimum 1-day
duration low flow for a return period of 10 years is estimated to be 33.6
cu.m/sec.
12.     A copy of study on Hydrology prepared by the Consulting Engineer
is a part of Project documents file.
B. Sedimentation
12.     Sedimentation data in Nepal are scarce and Marsyangdi River is no
exception. Suspended sediment load measurements have been periodically
made at Goplin Ghat site since May 1978. The measurements cover about 3
high flow periods.
13.     The mean annual suspended sediment load at Goplin Ghat site has
been estimated by using suspended sediment rating curve and 1974-80 flow



- 73 -
Annex 13
Page 4 of 5
records. The estimated amount is 26.7 million tons per year which cor-
responds to 2.6 mm per year of erosion in the watershed. The unmeasured
load at the gauging slte is estimated to be an additional 15 percent.
Petrographic analyses of sediment samples show that Quartz, Feldspar and
Mica constitute 60, 30 and 10 percent of the suspended load. Based on
limited grain size analysis, the suspended load comprises the following
size fractions:
Percentage by Weight
Fraction         in Measured Suspended Load
> 0.Z5  mm             20.9
0.25 - 0.125 mm              26.1
0.125- 0.05  mm              26.45
0.02 - 0.05  mm              25.25
> 0.02  mm               1.3
14.     Monthwise distribution of suspended sediment load has been pat-
terned after Trisuli River data. According to this distribution more than
74 percent of the annual sediment load is carried during July and August
and about 94 percent during the monsoon period - June through September.
Flushing of Basin
15.     The settling basin is designed to remove sediment particles of
size larger than 0.05 mm (para 5 of Annex 12).  It will be necessary to
periodically flush the sediments accumulated in the desilting basin. This
will be done during night time so as not to lose the capacity during peak
time. The following table shows the month-wise requirement of flushing
time:
Required Flushing Time for the Basin
Months    QT         QF       SL       TT    POP
Jan        50        -       8.7       -      -
Feb       43         -       8.8       -      -
March     40         -      13.1       -      -
April     56        60      34.1      20     29.3
May       97       100    112.5       37     29.4
June      99       300    390.4       40     28.3
July      99       450    786.4       59     28.5
Aug       99       450    540.4       41     29.3
Sept      99       450    248.8       19     29.2
Oct       99       240    186.8       23     30.0
Nov       99       120      25.9       7     29.7
Dec       67        70      17.3       8     30.7



-74                                    Annex 13
Page 5 of 5
QT = Turbine discharge in cub.m/sec
QF = Flushing discharge in cub.me/sec
SL = Settled material in thousand tons/moath
TT = Total flushing time in hours/month
POP = Possible plant operation time in day/month
16.     A copy of study on Sedimentation prepared by the Consulting Engineer
and subsequent model studies at Karlsruhe University are part of Project
documents file.



- 75 -                             Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Geology and Seismicity
A. Geology
Project Area
1.      The lower 20 km of the Marsyangdi Valley, in wt :_ch the project is
located, is partly alluviated and partly entrenched in a gorge. The
bedding strikes generally east-west, with dips ranging from gentle to
steep and locally overturned. A large fold crosses the Marsyangdi Valley
near the power station. A fault, Shilung Fault, strikes generally
east-west in the project area, and sheared rock is exposed along this
fault zone in the river bed and left bank cliffs within 1.5 km of down-
stream of the weir site.
2.      Instability along the steep river banks is common in both alluvial
terraces and the bedrock, with slides extending as high as 180 m above the
river level. Most slides appear to be sheet like, affecting loosened and
weathered superficial layers.
Weir Site
3.      Eleven drill holes totalling 272 m length were made in 1978 and
1980-81 explorations. All drill holes are located on the bank terraces
except one, located in the right river channel.  In addition, three test
pits were excavated on the left bank terrace and 28 seismic traverses were
made, all on the right bank. Geological mapping of the site including the
reservoir was done. In 1982-83, 3 additional holes were drilled as the
weir was shifted upstream by about 260 meters.
4.      Alluvium is exposed in river and creek banks, terrace faces, road
batters and test pits. The alluvium consists of both clean and silty
micaceous sand, gravel and boulders. The rock types in boulder-gravel are
predominantly phyllite and quartzite. The rock type exposed in outcrops
and recovered in cores consists of white and grey metaquartzite, con-
glomerate, quartzose phyllite and softer fissile phyllite.  In four drill
holes, 10 to 200 mm wide seams of sheared rock and clay were encountered.
From other drill log description it appears that bed rock is generally
sheared and fractured but not weathered. There is no evidence to suggest
recent movement of fault. During construction, conventional methods, such
as over-excavation, dental concreting and consolidation grouting etc. will



Annex 14
- 76 -                                 Page 2 of 3
be used wherever required.  Ground water level measurement, water pressure
tests and permeability tests were made in boreholes. A large creek on the
right bank normally goes underground on reaching the alluvial terraces.
Headrace Tunnel
5.      The tunnel intake will be located in a deep open cut.  From intake
to 1.85 km, the tunnel passes beneath alluvial terraces with a cover of 15
m to 135 m. From 1.85 km to 6.8 km it passes beneath mountains and spurs
with the cover increasing to 645 m at 3.15 km, and then decreasing to 260
m at 6.8 km. From 6.8 km to 7.1 km, the t:unnel is located beneath the
steeply descending wall of the Marsyangdi gorge with the cover of 85 m at
the surge shaft. Geological mapping of the area along the tunnel line was
done.
6.      Six vertical drill holes totalling about 360 m were made along the
tunnel alignment, surge shaft and intake. Above the tunnel, the bedrock
is largely covered by deposits of soil, slopewash, alluvium and talus.
Rocktype generally encountered in the drill holes comprised
phyllites and quartzites.  The quratzites range from white very hard
metaquartzite to grey silty dolomitic varieties. Phyllites range from
hard, quartzose and relatively massive rock to soft and fissile,
micaceous, chloritic and talcose rocks. Cores of both phyllite and
quartzite are mostly closely fractured and much of the core was recovered
in fragments and pieces less than 100 mm long. At least two drill holes
appeared to encounter a fault along one of- the lineaments associated with
Shilung Fault Zone. The tunnel length is 7.1 km, it would not be economi-
cal to spend more time and money on additional investigation.  The element
of uncertainty would not be reduced by few additional drillings. Accord-
ingly higher physical contingencies have been provided for tunnel than for
other civil works.
7.      Method of construction of the tunnel and the steps used to control
the loosening of rock after excavation are described in Annex 12.
Power Station
8..     The power station is located underground in the right wall of the
gorge. Near the site, the river channel is 40 m to 70 m wide.
9..     Extensive rock exposure in the area is mainly of quartzite.  The
quartzite is hard, white to pale gray, medium grained, extensively granu-
lated, microfractured and recrystallized metaquartzite.  Some beds of 20
mm to 100 mm sheared phylittes occur. Core recovery in quartzite ranged
from 47 percent to 91 percent.  Outcrops of quartzites are mostly fresh to
slightly weathered.  Two main faults were found in the power station area.
Zones of microfracturing and sheared to crushed rock were found. Numerous



Annex 14
77                                        Page 3 of 3
small springs occur along the toe of the highway cut through the power
station site. Three drill holes totalling 71 meters were drilled in the
power station and tail race area.
B. Seismicity
10.     Nepal is an area of high seismic risk with extreme events exceed-
ing Magnitude Richter 8. List of events compiled for this project shows
that the project site lies in the zone of concentration of epicenters,
which cluster around Pokhara and Gorkha. The tectonic process is believed
to be the thrusting of Indian Subcontinent under the Eurasian land mass.
Using the attenuation function and adjustment for rock foundation and
considering the low susceptibility of the project to serious seismic
damage, a design dynamic acceleration of 0.2g horizontally and 0.15 g
vertically has been adopted. For design purposes, both the accelerations
are taken into consideration simultaneously.
11.     A copy of report of Geology and Seismicity prepared by the Con-
sulting Engineer is a part of Project documents file.



-78-                                        Annex
NEPAL
KARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Project Cost Estimate
Description                 Foreign   Local      Total   Foreign  Local    Total
---Thousand N. Rupees---      -----Thousand US$-----
A. Preliminary works including
land acquisition             40,300   47,000      87,300)   2,500   2,900    5,400
B. Administration Cost by HMG      8,000   43 400      51 400       500   2,700    3,200
Sub-total        48,300   90,400    138)700          3,000   5,600    8,600
C. Civil Works (Lot I)
Site Installation Lot I       101,600   18,000    119,600    6,300   1,200    7,500
Diversion works during
construction including
settling basin              109,100   48,800    157,900    6,800   3,100    9,900
Diversion weir, flushing
structure & intake
structure                  510,400   148,600    659,000   31,900   9,300   41,200
Sub-total      721,100   215,400    936,500   45,000  13,600   58,600
Civil Works (Lot II)
Site Installation Lot II    308,600    54,800    363,400   19,300   3,400   22,700
Head race tunnel, surge
tank                       700,900   265,500    966,400   43,800  16,600   60,400
Pressure shaft, tail race
tunnels, power station,
switchyard                 159,700    74,700    234,400   10,000   4,600   14,600
Permanent roads and outdoor
works                        9,400     5,900      15,300      600      400    1,000
Sub-total    1,178,600   400,900  1,579,500   73,700  25  m   98,700
D. Equipment
Hydraulic steel structure
Gates                        166,500    21,500   188,000   10,400    1,300   11,700
Penstock and manifold         47,100     6,100    53,200    3,000        400    3,400
Cranes and elevators          18,900     2,500    21,400    1,200        200    1,400
Sub-total      232,500    30,100   262,600   14,600    1,900   16,500
Mechanical Equipment
Turbines                      87,600    16,500   104,100    5,500    1,000   6,500
Butterfly valves              21,100     4,900    26,000    1,300        300   1,600
Auxiliary system              11,900     2,600    14,500       800       200   1,000
Sub-total      120,600    24,000   144,600    7,600    1,500   9,100
Electrical Equiprsent
Generators                   119,400    21,900   141,300    7,500    1,400   8,900
Transformers                  35,300     4,800    40,100    2,200        300   2,500
Switchgear etc.              131,000    25,700   156,700    8,200    1,600   9,800
Auxiliary system              11,600     2,800    14,400       700       200     900
Sub-total      297,300    55,200   352,500   18,600    3,500  22,100
E. Transmission Lines            88,0C0    44,800   132,800    5,500    2,800   8,300
F. Substations and local
distribution system        135,200    36,700   171,900    8,400    2,200  10,600
G. Consulting Engineer for
Construction Supervision    120,400        -      120,400    7,500       -     7,500
H. Technical Assistance
(i) Panel of experts and
claims advisor         17,200       -       17,200    1,100       -     1,100
(ii) Supervision of system
loss reduction
program                 1,700       -        1,700      100      -        100
(iii)Catchment managesent
plan                    3,400       -        3,400      200      -        200
(iv) Training for pover
sector                43,000        -      43,000    2,700       -      2,700
Sub-total       65,400               65,400    4,100       -      4,100
Base cost(mid-84 prices)  3,007,300   897,500 3,904,800  188,000  56,100  244,100
Physical contingencies       413,400   124,800   538,200   25,800   7,800   33,600
Price contingencies          553,800   176,300   730,100   34,600  11,000   45,600
Total project cost         3,974,500 1,198,600 5,173,100  248,400  74,900  323,300
Note:  Local taxes and duties amounting to NRs 253.1 million equivalent to
US$15.81 million are included in the local costs.



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(NRs. Million)          (US$ Million)
---------------------- -------------------- X Foreign  I Total
Local  Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange  Base Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
SITE INSTALLATION I           18.0   101.6   119.6   1.1       6.3    7.5       84.9         3.1
SITE INSTALLATION II          54.8   308.6   363.4   3.4    19.3   22.7         84.9         9.3
DIVERSION WORKS               48.8   109.1   158.0   3.1       6.8    9.9       69.1         4.0
DIVERSION WEIR               148.6   510.4   659.0   9.3    31.9   41.2         77.5        16.9
HEAD RACE TUNNEL ETC         265,5   700.9   966.3  16.6    43.8   60.4         72.5        24.7
PRESSURE SHAFT ETC            74.7   159.7   234.4   4.7    10.0   14.6         68.1         6.0
PERMANENT ROADS                5.9      9.4    15.3   0.4      0.6    1.0       61.7         0.4
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS           616.2 1,899.7 2,515.9  38.5   118.7  157.2         75.5        64.4
B. POWER HOUSE                  281.2 1,107.6 1,388.9  17.6    69.2   86.8         79,8        35.6
Total BASELINE COSTS              897.5 3,007.3 3,904.8  56.1   188.0  244.0         77.0       100.0
Phgsical Contingencies         124.8   413.4   538.2   7.8    25.8   33.6         76.8        13.8
Price Contingencies            176.3   553.8   730.1  11.0    34.6   45.6         75.8        18.7
Total PROJECT COSTS             1,198.6 3,974.5 5,173.1  74.9   248A4  323.3         76.8       132.5
(D--



-80-                                                             Annex 15
Table 2
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Suarmars Account ba Tiae
Base Costs    Total
Base Costs                                            * Price       Incl.
I(NRs, Million)                    Foreign Exchange   Cont, on         Cont.
---------------------------------------------- ----------------  Base Costs             (USS
84/85   B5/86   86/87   87/88  38/89  Total           I      Amount  (US$ Million) Million)
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PRELIMINARY WORKS                                             43.7    26.2    17.5          -       -    87,3    46.1        40,3            5.9        5.9
B. ADMINISTRATION COSTS                                          10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3   10.3    51.4    15.5             8.0             3.8       3.8
C. CIVIL WORKS                                                  348.2   706.5   706.5   503.2  251.6 26515.9    75.5  1,899,7                 183.7    214.8
6. EQUIPMENT
1. HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT
GATES ETC                                                 56.4    37.6    37.6    37.6   18.9   187.9    88.6    166.4                   13.5      14.9
PENSTOCK AND MANIFOLD                                      16.0    10.6    10.6    10.6    5.3    53.2    88.6           47.1             3.8       4.2
CRANES AND ELEVATORS                                        6.4      4.3      4.3     4.3    2.1    21.4    88.6         18.9             1.5       1.7
Sub-Total HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT                                 78.8    52,5    52.5    52.5   26,3   262.5    88.6    232.5                  18.9      20.7
2. MECHANICAL EQUIPMENI
TURBINES                                                  31.2    20.8    20.8    20.8   10.4   104.1    84.2            87.6             7.5       8.2
BUTTERFLY VALVES                                            7.0      5.2     5.2      5.2    2.6    26.0    80.9         21.1             1.9       2.1
AUXILIARY SYSTEM                                            4.4      2.9     2.9      2.9    1.5    14.5    82.1         11.9             1.0       1.1
Sub-Total MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                                43.4    28.9    28.9    28.9   14.5   144.7    83.4    120.6                 .10.4      11.4
3. ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
GENERATORS                                                42.4    28.3    28.3    28.3   14.1   141.3    84.5    119.4                   10.2      11.2
TRANSFORMERS                                               12.0     8.0      8.0      8.0    4.0    40.1    88.2         35.3             2.9       3.2
SWITCHGEAR ETC                                             47.0    31.3    31.3    31.3   15.7   156.7    83.6    131.0                  11.3      12.4
VENTILATION ETC                                             4.3     2.9      2.9      2.9    1.4    14.4    80.9         11.6             1.0       1.1
Siub-Total ELECTRICAL EOUIPMENT                              105.7    70.5    70.5    70.5   35,2   352.4    84.4    297.3                  25.3      27.9
_ _ _ _                             _ _              _ _        _       _ _           _    _ _
Siub-Total EQUIPMENT                                            227.9   151.9   151.9   151.9   76.0   759.7    85.6    650.4                  54.6      60.0
E. TRANSMISSION LINES AND LOCAL DISTRIBUTION
TRANSMISSJON LINES AND LOCAL DISTRIBUTION   I'                   -    46.6    46.6    46.6   15.5   155.3    67.6    105.0                  11.6      12.8
---     _                   _                              _               _ _   _   _  _ _
Sub-Total TRANSMISSION LINES AND LOCAL DISTRIBUTION                 -    46.6    46.6    46.6   15.5   155.3    67.6    105.0                  11.6      12.8
F. SUBSTATIONS
SUBSTATIONS                                                   44.8    29.9    29.9    29.9   14,9   149.4    79,1    118.2                  10.7      11.8
  _                                         __               __                        __
Sub-Total SUBSTATIONS                                            44.8    29.9    29.9    29.9   14.9   149.4    79.1    118.2                  10.7      11.8
G. CONSULTING ENGINEER                                           24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1   24.1   120.4   100,0    120.4                   8.9       9.3
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PANEL OF EXPERTS AND CLAIMS SPECIALIST                         3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4    3.4    17.2   100.0         17.2            1.3       1.3
SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM LOSS REDUCTION PROGRAM                   0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3    0.3       1.7   100.0        1.7            0.1       0.1
CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT PLAN                                      0.7      0.7      0,7      0.7    0,7      3.4   100.0         3.4            0.3       0.3
TRAINING FOR POWER SECTOR                                      8.6      8.6      8.6      1.6    0.6    43.0   100.0        43.0             3.2       3.2
-----                            _                                   _   _          _      _
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   13.1    13.1    13.1    13.1   13.1    65.3   100.0            65.3            4.8       4.8
  _                         _      _       _            _   _         _  _-_
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                             712.0 1,008,5   999.8   779.0  405.5 3,904.8    77.0  3,007.3                 284.1    323.3
Phasical Continsencies                                            85.5   144.5   144.5   109.2   54.4   538.2    76.8    413.4                      -         -
Price Contingencies                                               29.3   125.7   204.6   221.4  149,1   730.1    75.8    553.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 826.8 1.278.8 1,34809 1.109,6  609.0 5.173.1    76,8  3,974.5                  284.1    323.3
Taxes~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~==_    ==  ==z==== ======= ==_=-= ======= ======= =-===   =   =======                                    ========  
Toreian Exchanue                                                  40.4    63.0    66.6    54.7   28.4   253.1           0.0       0.0               -     15 S
Taxesgn E>:chanse                                                652.7   968.0 1,023.7   857.1  473.0 3,974.5           0.0       0.0               -    246.4
1/   Local  distribution  component  costing  US$1.3  million  (F.E.  $1.0  million,  L  $ 0.2  million  and  taxes
0.1 million) is to be financed by KFW and haa therefore been combined with substations in Annex 15.



NEPAL
MARSYANODI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Table 101, POWER HOUSE
Detailed Cost Table
Dreakdowi of Totals Incl.
Rase Costs                                Totals Including Contingencies                             (USS '000)
(NRs. Million)                                      (NRs. Hillion)                   ----------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------------------     Local (Excl. Duties t
84/85   95/96   86/87   87/88   88/89   Total    84/85   85/86   86/87    87/88   88/89   Total   For. Exch.  ;Taxes)            Taxes
1, INQESTMENT COSTS
A. PRELIMINARY WORKS                                   43.673   26.204  17,469        -       -   87.345   45.336   29.153  20.673        -        -   95.161  29731.619   2.993.530   222.440
8. ADMINISTRATION COSTS                                10.271   10.271   10.271   10,271   10.271   51.353   10.675   11.463   12.202   12.934  13.710   60.983   586.737    3y224.732       -
C. EQUIPMENT
1. HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT
GATES ETC                                         56,379  37.586   37,586  37.586  18,793  187.928  64.264   45.789  48.654   51.574  27.334   237.615 13,144.052       866.341   840.564
PENSTOCK AND NANIFOLD                             15.964  10.643  10.643  10.643   5.321    53.215   18.197   12.966  13.777  14.604   7.740   67.284 3,721.924         245.317  238.018
CRANES AND ELEVATORS                               6.415   4.277   4.277   4.277   2.130   21.384   7.313   5.210   5.536   5.869    3.110   27.038  1.495.664           98.581    95.648
Sub-Total HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT                        78.758  52.505  52.505  52.505  26.253  262.527  89.774  63.966  67,968  72.046  38.184   331.938 18,361.640   1.210.239 1,174,230
2; MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
TURBINES                                          31.231   20.820   20.820  20.820  10.410  104.102  35.605  25.376  260967  28.585  15.150   131.684 6.919.407         844.999   465.931
BUTTERFLY VALVES                                   7.814   5.209   5.209   5.209   2.605   26.047   8.910   6.352   6.750   7.155   3.792   32.960  1.663.786           279.598  116.595
AUXILIARY SYSTEM                                   4.362   2.908   2.908   2.908   1.454   14.541    4.974   3.545   3.768    3.994   2.117    18.397   942.701         S42.036   65.080
- ub-Tetal NECWICAL EIUIPNT                          43.407  20.93   28.93   28.398   14.40   144.690   49.489  35.273  37.485  39.734  21.059   183.041  9.S25.894   1.266.632  647.56
3. EUCYlltL EUWlNT
IE I                                              42,373  21.252  28.252  29.252  14,126  141.260   48.313   34.433  36.591   38.787  20.557   178.681  9.427.46    1.108.016   U2.-4
T      _AIUF                                      12.020    0.013   8.013   8.013   4.007    40.066   13,701    9.763   10.373   10.996   5.828   50.661  2,790.655     196.433   179.213
SITCHOEAR ETC                                    47.018   31.345   31.345  31;345  15.673  156.726  53.605  38.207  40.602   43,038  22.810   198.262 10,344.908    19345,141   701.353
VENTILATION                                        4,319   2,879   2.879   2.879    1.440    14.395   4.924   3.510   3.731   3.954   2.096   18.216   919.514          154.523   64.438
Sub-Total ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT                      105.734   70.489   70.489  70.409  35.245  352.447  120.544   85,913  91.297   96.775  51.291  445.820 23,482.542   2,804.114 1.577.098
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                    227.809  151.933  151.933  151.933  75.966  759.665 259.807  185.151  196,750  208.555  110.534  960.798 519370.077   5.280.985 3,398.823
D. TRAISISSION LINES AND LOCAL DiSTRIBUTION 1/
TRANSHISSION LINES                                       -  46.601   46.601  46.601  15.534  155.337          -  56.897  60,488  64.117  22.655  204,157 0,600.642   3.436.969  722.206
Sub-Total TRAN91ISSION LINES AND LOCAL DISTRIBUTION         -  46.601   46.601  46.601   15.534  155.337         -  56.897  60.488  64.117   22.655  204.157 0.600.642    3.436.969  722.206
E. SUBSTATIONS                                         44.822  29.881   29.881  29.881  14.941   149.407  51.111  36.440  38.728  41.052   21.758  189.089 9,333.788   1,815.377   668.903
F. CONSILTING ENGINEER                                 24.080  24.080  24,080  24.088  24.080  120,400  26.194   27.985  29.732   31.516  33.407   148.835 9.302.192                -         -
S. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PANEL OF EXPERTS                                      3.440    3.440   3.440   3.440   3.440    17.200   3,564   3.808   4.045   4.288   4.545   20.250 1.265.604                -         -
SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM LOSS REDUCTION PROGRAM          0.342   0.342   0.342   0.342   0.342    1.712   0.355   0.379   0.403   0.427   0.452    2.016    125.972                 -         -
CATDIENT WMNENENT PLAN                                0.688    0.6 0 0.688   0.688   0.688    3.440   0.713   0.762   0.809   0.050   0.909    4.050   253.121                   -         -
TRAINING FOR POWER SECTOR                            08598   8.598   8-598   8.s9a   8.598   42.992    8.908   9.517   10.111   10.718   11.361    50.615  3.163.422             -         -
__ __ _  - -------   --------   --------   --------   ---------_ --------   -------- _--------   -------- _-------- _--------- _---------- ------------ _-- -
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          13.069  13.069  13.069  13.069  13.069   65.344  13.539   14.465  15.368   16.290  17.267   76.930 4.808.119                     -         I
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   363.813  302.030  293.304 275.035  153.860 1.388.851  406,662 361.554  373.942  374.465 219.331 1.735,954 86,733.174   16,751.592 5.012,372
1/ Local distribution component costing $1.6 million (F.E. $1.3, L $ 0.2 and taxes 0.1 million) is to
be financed by KBW and has therefore been combined with substations in Annex 15.



NEPAL
IARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Table 102. CIVIL WORKS
petailed Cost Table
Breakdown of Totals Inmcl  Cont                        Paruaeters
base Costs                                     Totals Including Contingencies                                      (US5  '000)                        --------------------
(NRs. Killion)                                           (NRs. Iillion)                       ------------------------------------------------  --- Phu.
----------------------------------------------------~ --------------------------------------------------------                   Local (Excl.                                Cant6  For.   Gross
84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    Total       84/85    85/86    86/87    87/188    8/89    Total        For. Exch.      Taesg)    Duties S Taxes    Totel        Rate  Exch. Tax Rate
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. SITE INSTALLATION I       35.876   23.917   23.917   23.917   11.959   119.517  42.760   30,475   32,3B6   34.329   18.194   158.144    8,395.047    1400,1811                 497.166    9.884.025  0.15  0.54       0.05
B. SITE INSTALLATION II    109.015   72,676   72.676   72.676   36.338   363.382  129.933   92.604   98.409  104.313   55.286   400.545   25.479.180    3,044.149              1.510.712   30,034,041  0.15  0.84        0.05
C. DIVERSION WORKS           15.796   47.389   47.309   31.593   15.796   157.964   18.840   60.483   64.298   45.47   24082   213.140    9,177.160    3,474.003                670,057   13.321.220  0.15  0.67        0.05
D. DIVERSION MIR             65.899  197.698  197.698  131.798   65.899   658.992   78,568  2524102  267.952  189.353  100.357  88.332   42.9tS464   !9.812;570               ?;7929 93   555420.727  0.o5  0.76        0.05
E~ HEAD RACE TUMN'EL ETC     2.635 92A.904  21t,904 0i3.220   Y6,635   966.348  120-246  385.954  410.267  289,922  153.659 1,360,049   61W496,167   19,231.213                4,775,453   85.003,032   0,2  0.71        0.05
F. PRESSURE SHAFT ETC        23.440   70.319   70.319   46.879   23.440   234.396   27.956   89.757   95.421   67,431   35.73    316.304   1347A8.637    5,346.001                994.382   19,769.020  0.15  0.66       0.05
0. PERMANENT ROADS            1.527    4.58I    4.581   31054    1.527    15,270    1.822    5.851    6.221    4,396    2.330    20.621             791.669      432.318           64,827    1.288.814  0.15   0,6       0.05
Total INVESTMENT COSTS         348.188  706.485  706,485  503.188  251.594 2.115.939  420.125  917.227  974.954  735.182  389.646 3%437.134  1641673,325   43,342,065             10.805.490  214420.980
--,A



-83-
Annex 15
NEPAL                                                                   Table  5
MARSYANODI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Susmaru Account bs Project Component
(NRs. Million)
CIVIL WORKS                                                              Frhsical
-------------------------------------------  ------ --- -----------------------------                       C lontlngencies
SITE           SITE        DIVERSION DIVERSION HEAD RACE  PRESSURE  PERMANENT                         -------------
INSTALLATION I INSTALLATION II   WORKS       WEIR    TUNNEL ETC SHAFT ETC   ROADS   POWER HOUSE Tota               Amonunt
4.VESTMENT COSTS
PRELIMINARY WORKS                                                                                                                                      91.4    514.  0.0        0.0
ADMINISTRATION COSTS
CiVIL WORKS                                                        119.6           363.4      150.0      659.0      966.3      234.4       15.3           - 2,515.9  16.9   425.?
EQUIPMENT
1. HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT
SATES ETC                                                          -                -          -          -          -          -          -       187.9   107.9  10.0    11.0
PENSTOCK AND MANIFOLD                                                                                     --                               -        5.2    53.2  10.0       5.3
CRANES AND ELEVATORS                                                                                                            -          -        21.4    214  10.0       2.1
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -    - - - --    - - - --    -- - - - -    - - - --    - - - --  262.5---   262.--   10---  2----3
Sub-Total HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                         262.5   262.5  10.0    26.3
2. MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
TURBINES                                                           -                -          -         -           -          -         -        104.1   104.1  10.0    10.4
BUTTERFLY VALVES                                                                                                                -          -        26.0    26.0  10.0      2.6
AUXILIARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                -         -         14.5    14.5  10.0      1.5
Cub-Total MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                                                                                                     -          -       144.7   144.?  10.0    14.5
3. ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
GENERATORS                                                          -               -          -          -          -          -          -       141.3   141.3  10.0    14,1
TRANSFORMERS                                                        -                -         -          -          -                              40.1    40.1 10.0       4.0
SWITCHGEAR ETC                                                     -                -          -          -          -          -         -        156.7   156.7  10.0    15.7
VENTILATION ETC                                                    -                -          -          -          -          -         -         14.4    14.4  10.0      1,4
Sub-Total ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT                                         -                -         -          -          -          -          -       352,4   352.4  10.0    35.2
iub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                       -                -         -          -           -         -          -       759.7   759.7  10.0    76.0
E. TRANSMISSION LINES AND LOCAL DISTRIBUTION
TRAN       N L S AD LL D                  N _ _ _                                                            -_ __ _                          -       13   13  10    1
STRANSMISSION  LINES  AND  L     OCAL   DISTRIBUTION                   -                -         -          -          -          -          -       155.3   155.3  10.0    15.5
Sub-Total TRANSMISSION LINES AND LOCAL DISTRIBUTION                       --                         -          --                    --                 155.1   155.3  10.0   IS.S
F. SUBSTATIONS
SUBSTATIONS                                                            -                -         -          -          -          -          -       149.4   149.4  10.0    14,9
Sub-Total SUBSTATIONS                                                     -                -         -          -           -         -          -       149.4   149.4  10.0    14.9
3. CONSULTING ENGINEER                                                    -                -         -          -           -         -          -       120.4   120.4   5.0       6,0
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
PANEL OF EXPERTS AND CLAIMS SPECIALIST                                 -                -         -          -          -          -          -        17,2    17.2   0.0      0.0
SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM LOSS REDUCTION PROGRAM                           -                -         -          -          -          -          -         1.7      1.7   0.0     0.0
CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT PLAN                                              -                -         -          -          -          -          -         3.4      3.4   0.0     0.0
TRAINING FOR POWER SECTOR                                              -                -         -          -          -          -          -        43.0    43.0   0.0      0.0
;ub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                           -                -          -         -           -          -         -         65.3    65.3   0.0      0,0
i INVESTMENT COSTS                                                   119.6            363.4      158.0     659.0       966.3      234.4      15.3      1,388.9 3,904,8  13.8   538.2
,asical Contingencies                                                 17.9             54.5       23.7      98.8       193.3       35.2       2.3        112.5   538.2   0.0      0.0
ice Contingencies                                                     20.6            62.7       31.5      130.5      200.4       46.7        3.1       234.6   730.1  12.3    89.6
I PROJECT COSTS                                                       158.1           480.5      213.1    088.3    1,360.0        316.3       20.6     1,736.0 5,173.1  12.1   627,.
exas                                                                    8.0            24.2       10.7       44.7       68.4       15.9        1.0        80.2   253.1  12.     32.0
nreion Exchange                                                       134.2            407.7     146.8      686.6      983.9      214.9       12.7     19307.7 3,974.5  12.1   480.9
1 15, 1984 15108






NEPAL
MARESYANGOI HYDROELECTRiC POWER PROJECT
Imoplerentovo.n Schedule                                                                 3333
3333I333    E
V, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
3,3303333333331                                                                                                I            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, II IIII.4
33303.030.333,333333<333  33                                                               1     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  J I 






- 85 -                              Annex 17
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Training Facility - Cost Estimate
Foreign Cost (US$)
Rate
Description                                   Unit    Per Unit         Total
1. Project Personnel
i) Team Leader                             40 mm    12,000 1/    480,000
ii) Specialist/Electrical                   36 mm    10,000        360,000
iii) Specialist/Mechanical                   36 mm    10,000         360,000
iv) Speciaist/Transmission Lines            36 mm    10,000        360,000
v) Specialist/Operation                    36 mm    10,000        360,000
Sub-total  1,920,000
2. Vehicles
Vehicles                                    2        15,000 2/      30,000
3. Training Equipment
i) Simulators, Test Benches,             Lump sum                 150,000
ii) Testing Instruments                      "                     300,000
(For Switchgear, Relays,
Transformers, Generators,
Cables, Meters & Communi-
cation Equipment)
iii)  Workshop, Laboratory                                            250,000
iv)  Audio-Visual Aids                       "                      50,000
Total     2,700,000
Local Cost (US$)
Building With Furnishing
1. To accomodate class room, workshops,                               700,000
workshops, laboratories, store
room, administrative wing, etc.
2. Housekeeping Expenses
To include utilities, office
supplies, printing, maintenance
of vehicles, local travelling,             36         5,500       200,000
salaries of local staff                  months
Total       900,000
1/  The rate is per man-month (mm) and includes overhead, foreign travel,
subsistence, reimbursibles.
2/ The rate includes spares required to maintain vehicles.



86 -                               Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
NEPAL ELECTRICITY COFYORATION
Tariffs
CONSUMER CATEGORY                       DEMAND CHARGE                     UNIT RATE
I.    DOMESTIC CONSUMERS
A. (a) 1-25 units                       -                           44 paisa
(b) 26-100 units                    _                           66 paisa
(c) 101-300 units                   -                            80 paisa
(d) above 300 units                 -                           90 paisa
B. Minimum Charge
(a) 2.5 Amps 15 Amps         NRs 11.00 per month and            (excess units
25 free units                    priced as above,
(b) 16 Amps - 30 Amps        NRs 27.50 per month and             if
50 free units                      if
(c) 31 Amps - 60 Amps         NRs 60.50 per month and             "
100 free units
(d) 61 Amps - 100 Amps        NRs 100.50 per month and
150 free units
(e) above 100 Amps            NRs 220.50 per month and
300 free units
II.   COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS
A. Hotels                        NRs 50 per kW of maximum            70 paisa
demand per month
B. Other commercial              NRs 40 per kW of maximum            65 paisa
consumers                     demand per month
C. Government Offices,           NRs 41 per month and                85 paisa
Foreign Mission               50 free units



Annex 18
- 87-                                     Page 2 of 2
Tariffs
CONSUMER CATEGORY                    DEMAND CHARGE                       UNIT RATE
III. INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS
A. Small (up to 50 kW)         NRs 18 per kW of installed          56 paisa
capacity per month
B. Medium (up to 500 kW)       NRs 45 per kW of maximum            52 paisa
demand per month
C. Large (above 500 kW)        NRs 50 per kW of maximum            50 paisa
demand per month
IV.   STREET LIGHTING
A. Metered
B. Unmetered                    33 paise per
watt per month
V.    IRRIGATION
A. 400 volt                    NRs 35 per kW of maximum            42 paisa
demand per month
B. 11 kV                       NRs 35 per kW of maximum            35 paisa
demand per month
VI.   TEMPORARY SUPPLY
A. Metered                                                         NRs 1.60 per
unit per month
B. Unmetered                    72 paisa per
watt per month
VII.  TRANSPORT
NRs 40 per kW of maximum           40 paisa
demand per month
VIII. SUPPLY TO INDIA                                                    14 Indian paisa






-88-
_3PAl                                                                                           Annex 19
NEPAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (NEC)
INCOME STATEMENT
ACTUALS 1978/79-1982/8E) FORECAST 1983/84-1990/91
Flscal Year ending July 15:                1978/79    1979/80    1960/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989190    1990/91
KWH GENERATED (MILLION) - HYRO                 166.7       169.5       175.2       208.0       27S.2       346.7       376.9        416.4      489.4       580.4        580.7       722.1       770,2
KWH GENERATED (MILLION) - DIESEL                  6.1         7.0        13.6         9.4         4.5         5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0        45.0
TOTAL KWH GENERATED                            172.8        176.5       188.8       217.4       282.7       351.7       381.9       421.4       494.4       585.4       625.7       722.1        770.2
ENERGY PURCHASED-GANDAK                                      10.0         3.3
ENERGY PURCHASED-INDIA                           9.2          8.5         9,1        11.1        51.2        50.0        50.0        50.0        50.0        25.0        50.0
TOTAL ENERGY AVAILABLE                         182,0        195.0      201.2        228.5       333.9       401.7       431.9       471.4       544.4       610.4       675.7        722.1       770,2
KWH SOLD (MILLION)- NEPAL                      113.1        131.3       129,7       143.0       217,9       258.9~      288.5       327.0       390.7       447.0        503,4       546.5       593,1
HWH SOfD (MILLION)   INDIA                        6.2         5.9         3.8         5.2         6.2        22.0        22,0        22.0        22.0        22.0         22,0        22.0        22.0
TOTAL KWH SOLD                                 119.3        137.2       133.5       148.2       224.1       280.9       310.5       349.0       412.7       469.0        525.4       568.5       615.1
NEC CONSUMPTION                                   3.4         3.7         3.6         3.6         4.1         4.6         5.9         6.7         8.0         9,1         10.2        11,1        12.0
SYSTEM LOSSES (3)                                32.3        2738        31.9        33.6        31,6        28.9        26.7        24.5        22.7        21.7         20.7        19.7        18.6
AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH SOLD (PAISA)             39.3        43,8        52,4        52.2        55.2        81.45      117.0       134.5       134.5        134.5       134,5       149,0       176.2
OPERATING REVENUES
_ B__ _                                                                                                                        Millie -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----  ------------------------
SALES - NrEPAL (EXISTING TARIFFI                 44,5        57.5        68.0        74.6       120.3       211.0       235.1       266.5       318.4        364,3       410.3       445.4       483.4
SALES - INDIA                                     1,3         1,2         0.7        11.0         1,244  4.4  4,44444 4.4                                            4.4                            4.
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES                          3,5         4.3         5,3         5.2         5,3         5.8         6.1         6.4          6.7        744          8.1         8.5          9,0
- - - - - -        - -- - - -               -              --- -- --------- ---
TOTAL                                           49.3         63.0        74.0        80.8       126.8       221.2       245.6       277.3        329.5       376,1       422.8       458.3       49-6.8
TARIFF INCREASE                                                                                     -                   102.4       173.3        207.1       236.9       266.8       369          517
- - - - -    - - - - - -    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---                                   - - - - - -   - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- -  -
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                        49.3         63.0        74.0        80.8       126.8       221.2       348.0       450.6        536.6       613.0       689.6       827.2       1058.4
OPERATING EXPENSES
SALARIES, WAGES & ALLOWANCES                     12.6        14.6        16.2        22.5        29.8        33.0        38.7        42.9         45.7        53.2        61.7         67.4        73.4
OPERATION & ADMINISTRATION                        8.6        10.3        13.0        18.1        19.2        32.4        51.2        57.3         72.5        73.2         74.0       152.3       153.1
FUEL                                              4.5         6.0        22.6        14.8         9.0         9.0         9.0         9,0          9.0         9.0         80.6
DEPRECIATION                                     1255        12.9        14.7        21.5        24,6        47.3        81.1        97.7        116.8       13191       132.5        203.7       274.9
ROYALTY AND SURCHARGE                            15.Y
PURCHASE OF ENERGY                                1.7         2.1         1.7         2.8        26.8        10.0        10.0        10.0         10.0          5.0        10.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                         55.8        45.9        68.2        79.7       109,4       131.7       190.0       216.8        253.9       271.-        358,7       423.4       501.3
-- - - - - - - - -   - - - --- - - -----.                                        ..-.-.                             .-.
OPER. INCOME (BEF. TAX ANO INTEREST)            -6.5         17.1         5.8         1.1        17.4        89.5       158.1       233.8        282.7       341.5        330.9       403.8       557.1
INTEREST                                                                  2.0         4.3         3.6       100.5       122.6       120.5        180.8       177.7        174.7       541.0       535.9
_ _  .-__-_  _ __ _  _--._-_ , , _  _ __ _,_ __  _       _-_-,_- _ , _ _ _ ,, _. , , , _ -,__ _,_ __ -_    - - - - - - _ - - - - - - - --_--- - - - - - _ _ - _   -_ - - _-_-- _ -   _ - _ _-- -_ -
OPERATING INCOME BEF TAX                         -6.5        17.1         3.8        -3.2        13.8       -11.0        35.5       113.3        101.9        163.8       156.2      -137.2        21.2
INCOME TAX                                                    4.4         1.4                     6.9                    17.7        56.7         50.9        81.9         78.1                    10.6
NET INCOME                                       -6.5        12.7         2.4        --3.2        6,9 -;11.0             17.7        56.7         50.9         81.9        78.1      -137.2         10.6
RATE BASE                                      369.7        365.5       399.6       551.3       710.2      1574.1      2760.1      3283.8       3005.4      4292.4       4210.6      6679.1      9076.4
RATE OF RETURN ON AVE. NET FIXEL
ASSETS IN OPERATION(X)                           -1.8         3.5         1.1         0.2         1.5         5.7         5.1          5.4          6.0         6.0         6.0         6.0          6.0






-19-
Annex 2-0
NEPAL
NEPAL ELECTRICITY~O.RPORATZON ~(NEC)
BALANCE SHEET
ACTUALS L978/79-_i98z/!83; FORECA- 198_3/04-1990/91
(NE,s Ril Iion)
As of July 15:                       1978/79      1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85             1985/86     1986/87    1987/88       1988/89     1989/9?0    1990/91
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
GSROSS FIXED ASSETS                      449.4        459.0       545.1        793.8       913.8      2593.6       3414.2       3819.8      4831.8      4 881 . 8    4931.8    10154.9       10204.9
LESS ACCUMULATEDI DEPRECIATION            82.2         95,1       109.8        131.3       155.9        203.2       284,4        382.0       498.8       629.9        762.4       966.1       1241.0
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                   367.2       363.9        435.3       662.5        757.9      2390,4       3129.8      3437,8       4333.0      4251,9      4169.4       9188.8       8963.9
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                      10.0         17.8        10.9         13.8        28.0         21.9        25.3         27.2        31.5        37.8         48.2         53.1        59.2
INVENTORlES                               10.7         12.7        19.7        21,2         22,5        35.4         41.1         42.9        47.5        47.7         53.6        70.7         70.9
ACCOUNTS R'ECEIVABLE                      14.3         19.4        23.1         30.1        32.5         36.9        58.1         75.3        89.6       102.4        115,2        138.1       176.8
ADVANCES RECOVERABLE                      13,5         20,9        25.4         33.6        31.5         17.7        20.5         21.5        23.7        23.8         26.8         35.3        35.5
- - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -   - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -   - - --- - - - -- - -   - - - - - - - - ---
'TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                     48.5         70.8        79.1         98.7       114.5        112.0       145,0        166.8       192.3       211,7        243.8       297.3        342.3
INVESTMENTS                                4.5          4.3         5.0          5.0         50           5.0         5.0          5.0         5.0         5.0          5.0          5.0         5.0
ADVANCES FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                140.0        243.0       243.0        388.0
TOTAL ASSETS                             420.2        439.0       519.4        766.2       877.4      2507,4       3279.9      3609.6       4530.3      4608.5       4661.2      9734.1       9699.3
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
HMO CAPITAL                              398.1       38. 1        421.5       655.5        755.5      1317.2       2042.4      2051.6       2225.9     2225.9       2225,9       4489.9       4489.9
CONSUMERS CONTRIBUTIONS                   10.5         10.5        10.5         10.5        10.5         10,5        10.5         10.5        10,5        10.5         10.15        10.5         10.5
RETAINED EARNINGS                         244         -11.7        -9.3       -12.5         -3.4        -14.4         3.3         60,0       110.9       192.8        270.9        133.7       144.3
TOTAL EQUITY                             384.2        396.9       422,7        653.5       762.6       1313.3      2056,2       2122.1      2347.3      2429.2       2507.3      4634.1       4644.7
LONG-TERM DEBT                                                     47.2         44.2        41.0       1167.1      1173.9       1396.0      2093.0      2057.6       2019.4      5045.4       49B6.3
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUJNTS PAYABLE                          4.8          5.5         7.2         20.9        i8.5         13.5        17.4         19.1        21,9        22.5         36.2         35.2     -  36.2
MISCELLANEOUS DEPOSITS                     2.5          3.5         7.7          9.0        10.0         11.0        12.1         13.3         14.6       16.1         17.7         19.5        21.4
ROYALTY AND SURCHARGE                     28.1         28.1        28.1         28.1        28.1                                                                          .
PURCHASE OF ENERGY                         0.4          0.6         3.3          6.0         8,0          2,5         2.5          2.5         2.5
PROVISION FOR TAX                                       4.4         3.2          4.5         9.2                     17,7         56.7        50.9        01,9         78.1                      10.6
'TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                35.8         42.1        49.5         68.5        73.8         27.0        49.8         91.5        90.0       121.7        134.5         54.6         68.3
---                              ------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                    - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -   - - - - -
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES            420.0        439.0       519.4        766.2       877.4       2507.4      3279,9       3609.6      4530.3      4608.5       4661.2      9734.1       9699.3
---  -  - - - -  - - -     - - - - -      - - - - - - - ---                                                   -  - -  - - -  - - ----       - - - - - - -  - - -
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                                                   10/90        6/94       5/95        47/53        36/64       40/60        47/53        46 /54      45/55        52/468      52 / 4






-90,                                                      Annex 21
NEPAL
NEPAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (NEC)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS 1983/84-1990/91
(NRs Million)
Fiscal Year ending July 15:                1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1997/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91
SOURCES OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME BEF INTEREST                  B9.5       140.3       177.2      231.7       259.6       252.9      403.8       546.5
DEPRECIATION                                   47.3        81.1        97.7      116.8       131.1       132.5      203.7       274.9
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                136.8       221.4      274.8       348.5       390.7       385.3      607.5       821.4
GOVERNMENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION                561.7       725.2         9.2      174.3                             2264.0
LONG TERM LOANS (CAP INVESTMENT)             1143.9        30.0      247.1       729.6                             3080.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                       1842.4       976.6      531.1      1252.4       390.7      305.3      5951.5       821.4
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
NEC CAPITAL WORKS (OWN FUNDS)                  30.0        40.0        50.0       50.0        50,0        50.0       50.0        50.0
EEC GENERATION I DISTRIBUTION PLANT
HETAUDA DIESEL PLANT
BAHARATPUR-POKHARA TRANSMISSION LINE           36.6
BIRATNAGAR DIST. REINFORCEMENT                             40.2
DEVIGHAT POWER PLANT                                      720.4
KULEKHANI I                                  1512.9
ANDHIKHOLA POWER PLANT                                                 51.7
KULEKHANI II                                                                     903.5
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC PLANT                                                                                     5173.1
DEVIGHAT-KHATMANDU TRANSMISSION LINE                       20.0
DUMKEBAS-BUTWAL TRANSMISSION LINE                                                 58.5
HETAUDA BIRATNAGAR TRANSMISSION LINE                                 303.9
VALLEY DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                   100.3
TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT                     1679.8       820.6      405.6      1012.0        50.0        50.0     5223.1        50.0
ADVANCES FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                    140.0       103.0                  145.0
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                                      100.5       122.6      120.5J      180.8       177.7      174.7       541.0       535.9
AMORTIZATION                                   17.8        23.2       25.0        32.6        35.4        38.2       54.0        59.1
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                            118.3       145.B      145.5       213.4       213.1      212.9       595.0       595.0
CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                       -6.1         3.4        1.9         4.3         6.2        10.4        4.9         6.0
OTHER THAN CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)            50.4         6.9       -21.9       22,7       -18.6         9.9      128.4        25.3
NET INCREASE (DECREASE)                        44.3        10.2       -20.0       27.,0      -12.4        19.4      133.4        31.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                  1842.4       976.6      531.1      1252.4       390.7       385.3   - 5951.5  B- 21.4
TIMES DEBT SERVICE COVERED BY
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                        1.2         1.5         1.9        1.6         1.8         1.8        1.0         1.4



i



-91-                                 Annex 22
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
NEPAL ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
INCOME STATEMENTS
Sale of Electricity
Sale of electricity forecasts are based on projected system expansion
and takes into account a reduction in system losses. Sales are forecast to
increase at an average annual rate of about 15% through FY91.
System Losses
Under a system loss reduction program being instituted with outside
assistance, system losses are expected to be gradually reduced to 19% of
total generation by FY91.
Average Revenue per kWh Sold
The average revenue per kWh sold reflects a tariff increase of 65%
effective November 30, 1984 and    increases of 11% and 18% effective the
beginning of FYs9O and 91, respectively.
Other Operating revenues
Other operating revenues are mainly miscellaneous services rendered
to consumers, such as transfer/replacement of meters, application fees,
reconnection of service etc. Annual increases are based on the increase in
number of consumers.
Salaries, Wages and Allowances
Forecasts are based on the number of staff and include an 8% annual
inflation allowance.
ODeration and Administration
Forecasts of operation and administration expenses are related to the
system's growth and are based on a percentage of gross plant in service
varying between 1.25% - 2.0%.
Fuel
The cost of fuel has been forecast on the basis of existing fuel
prices in Nepal and the utilization of thermal plant.



- 92                                    Annex 22
Page 2 of 3
Depreciation
A composite rate of depreciation of 2.7% is presently being used by
NEC, and has been used for the forecasts.
BALANCE SHEETS
Cash
Cash balances are projected on the basis of two-three months cash
operating expenses.
Inventories
Inventories are forecast taking into account maintenance supplies,
fuel reserves and stores in connection with the system expansion.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivables are forecast on the basis of two months' annual
billings.
Advances Recoverable
Advances recoverable are mainly in reslpect of advances for the supply
of material and equipment. Forecasts assume the advances to be 50Z of
inventory.
Investment
Investment represents the purchase of bonds issued by the Central
Bank.
Advances for Construction
Advances for construction are funds advanced to help finance capital
investment.
Accounts Payable
Accounts payable are forecast on the basis of two months' operating
expense net of depreciation.



- 93 -                                  Annex 22
Page 3 of 3
Miscellaneous Deposits
Miscellaneous deposits include suppliers' and contractors' deposits
and deposits on account of theft cases. Forecasts assume an annual 10%
increase.
Provision for Tax
Provision for tax is the income tax incurred in the current year and
paid in the following year.



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Economic Comparison - Capacity Balance
(All Figures are In K4W)
Fiscal Year                         84    85    86          87    88        89       90       91      92      93      94        95    96       97      98      99      2000
Existing Hydro 1/             110.5
Existing Diesel                19.5           2.2
Eastern System (Diesel)                       6.8
Eastern System (Kosi)
Western System                                                  1.0
Kulekhani 1I
Harsyangdi                                             32.0            69.0                                        75.0   75.0                      75.0
Sept Gandaki
Total       130.0  130.0  139.0  171.0  172.0  241.0           241.0   241.0  241.0  241.0  316.0  391.0  391.0  391.0  466.0  466.0   466.0
Reserve 2/                     30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0           30.0    30.0   30.0   30.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   7-5.0   75.0               75.0
Net Available                 100.0  100.0  100.0  141.0  1420a  21l           210 212    1.0  21.C... 2.0  241.0  316.0  316.0  316.0  391.0  391.0   391.0
MD 3/                          82.8   89.1   94.7  124.3  143.7  159.0          170.0   181.5  198.2  209.7  230.7  253.7  279.1  307.0  337.7  371.5   408.6
I/ This is the effective available plant capacity available during dry period in winter.
2/ Reserve capacity does not include scheduled maintenance which is planned to be done mostly during summer when demand is low and effective
available plaat capacity is more than winter.
3/ For demand through 1991/92, refer Annex 9, Table 1. Energy requirement from 91/92 through FY99/2000 has been assumed to increase at IOZ annually.



Annex 23
Table 2
-95-
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Economic Comparison - Energy Balance (GWh)
Availability from                                             Contribution by Gas
Existing/under Con-   Contribution    Contribution of   Turbines if Marsyangdi
Total Requirement   struction Plant           of Marsyangdi   Sapt. Gandaki         is replaced by Gas Turbine
Hydro    Diesel
696.5             614.1
3                    744.8             614.1        -              130.7               -                  130.7
1                    795.1              614.1       -               181.0               -                  181.0
2                    868.4              614.1       -               254.3              -                  254.3
3                    955.2              614.1       -               341.1               -                  341.1
4                .45 (1050.7)-472.8   280.1         -               192.7               -                  192.7
e 93 to Nov.93)
4
93 to May 94)  .55(1050.7)=577.8   334.0           -               163.7             80.1                   -
5                   1155.8              614.1       -              357.3             184.4                   -
6                   1271.4              614.1       -               357.3            300.0                   -
7                   1398.6              614.1       -               357.3            427.2                   -
'8                  1538.4              614.1                       357.3             536.3                 30.7
9                   1692.3              614.1      14.4             357.3             648.1                 58.4
10                  1861.5              614.1      47.2             357.3            692.7                 150.2
Monthwise Comparison for FY 99/00
---Energy Balance With Marsyangdi--------- -                  Energy Balance Without Marsyangdi but with Gas Turbines
From                                                 From                                 Additional
Existing/                                            Existing/                            Thermal
under Con-  From       From               Energy    under Con-    From                    From
Require-  struction   Mar-        Sapt      From    Require-  struction         Sapt      Gas        Gas
:h     quirement (Hydro)        syangdi  Gandaki  Diesel  ment          (Hydro)        Gandaki  Turbines  Turbines 1/
(2)        (3)          (4)       (5)      (6)       (7)        (8)            (9)       (10)         (11)
a Y99  1861.5x.45
6
= 139.6       48.84    31.6       59.2      -        139.6       48.84          82.9       7.9        7.9
y Y99  - 139.6        47.09    32.6       59.9      -        139.6       47.09         84.3        8.2        8.2
Y99  = 139.6        43.70    32.6       63.3      -        139.6       43.70         87.7       8.2         8.2
t Y99  = 139.6        43.48    31.6       64.5      -        139.6       43.48         88.2        7.9        7.9
Y99  = 139.6        46.53    32.6       60.5      -        139.6       46.53         84.9        8.2        8.2
Y99  = 139.6        50.47    31.6       57.5      -        139.6       50.47         81.23      7.9         7.9
Y2000l1861.5x.55  61.19    32.6         76.8      -        170.6       61.19        100.8       8.6         8.6
6
170.6
aY2000= 170.6         63.38    27.2       80.0      -        170.6        63.38         94.4      12.8       12.8
bY2000= 170.6          56.47    21.1       68.7    24.3       170.6       56.47         68.7      45.4        21.1
r  Y2000= 170.6        56.03    21.9       71.7    21.0       170.6       56.03         71.7      42.9        21.9
r  Y2000= 170.6        47.74    29.3       91.7      1.9      170.6       47.74         91.7       31.2       29.3
y  Y2000= 170.6        49.24    32.6       88.8      -        170.6       49.24       _113.2        8.2        8.2
1861.5      614.1    357.3    842.6    47.2    1861.5          614.1         7f049.73   197.4      150.2
From May to November. gas turbines are assumed to run for 4 hours to meet
system peak of 66MW  and in December to meet peak of 69 MW.  From January
to April, additional thermal energy has been considered after deducting
the diesel energy (Column 6).



-9b-                                                                 ArpAes 23
Tb.le 3
NEPAL
MAOSYACDI A3DROELECTOIC POWER PROJECT
Economic Co=oparisono- Aassptiass.
Alsersotise 1                                      Al-tonmtive 11                                              Alt-rstloe  III
M-rsy-ogdi 3o23 Mf                                 Coal Thermal 3s25 MW                                        1.w ap-ed Dleel 3s24 MW
1. (a) Total cost of M-arsyagdi                    1. Cost of cool thermal                                    1. Cost of la speed dleel
wJith ptice co-tigesoy:                      =  2,2011 pe- kA, 15"                                      US,500 per kU, 15Z Is
Is  dssoel as Iscal rest.                                  assard as local esst.
Total   1US323.3 =illon
Forsgn  T152'sM.U   million                2. SCF is as par Alter-                                     2. SCF is as per Alter-otlie I
Local    USS 59.1 s=illon                     na-tie 1.
Tones    UIp 15.8 nillios                                                                              3. Disbsrsaest pattern:
3. lisborseseoc pottesr;
(b) Projsct cost aitho-e prIce                                                                                 FY               S5  86  87  08 89
contingecr, taxes, t. che..al                 n              1985  86  87  as  89                          tamer station  40% 20Z 20% 15% 5%
annistonce aod od=inistration                 Po-erstonlot  AO2  20Z 20Z 15X 5i                            Teas.eisslan 6 25% 30% 301 10  5Z
roensen of Hil bot iscLuding                  TroesFmlssloe.   40%  20% 20X i5% 5%                           sabseatens
substationi
phrysfil contiogencies and                                                                             4. Lo-atiot of pamr stittes and 132kV
ConsuLting Engineer:                                                                                      lines Is amsoud as pee Ale-  atins 11.
Total  Foreign  Local   4.   ..ratian of pates seatiot Isdassued
(I5 nAlllion)          at alrgas3.  Thtes 132kV lInes are                      5. FeI oil heat  -nttet - 10,000 kcal/kg
liil  -orks         173.0  138.8  34.2         ssued, i.e. frn= Oirga-j to H-esoda                        Ther.ol efflriency 40%
Other uorks ae(50 kS ), from Birganj ts Bharatp-r                                                         Case of all at Calcutta - US$184/ton(1983)
piner atoti-o    54.0   47.2   6.8          (70 kA) and from bilganj ti  Jaa.kp-r                       Na i-erae In real peIes Is ca 1    tAsld
Troo   i-e-son,lls-                           (Ill ks) I US1181,O  per km=. and                           apta 1985.  Theteafter real lcrteae at
tribution awl                               10$ 1.5 =Illion is assued ftr gasthtoa                     13  p.o. h0m  bhee  assuend.
sobstations        19.5   15.3   4.2        Coral dlsrilbatfos.  11111U  1 IO llion  is                 Transport cast from Calcutta to Birgaj is
Consulting Engi-sst 7.9    7.9    -           assaed for foot sobseasfons.                                assaaed  MIR58 par ton.
Total  254.4  209.2  45.2
2. lisbornesacnt patteto of  -arYs-Andi           S. Coal-hes cottns = 6600 kcal/kg                               Additianal 370 tail eagoss (140 beusd
Project Coot;  As For lAneo  15.                Thermal efficiery= 33%                                      gaogs and 230 small gaBel have beeP
Cost of coal so Caicotsa; 150/tat                          ass  *d for I5 lays tars arauPd.  1SS10.0
3. 0CF = 0.9 foe oo  oac    e ta)i osd cr,osnpo-t     Cost of toospart from Calcosta to                           million has beer  asmuted for LEpeasement sf
= 0.6 for local labor                         "irganj is $13.0 per N  os.  Additiosal                     sidig and cease fa-ilieth      t eat lass
Al  Local  -orkA  are aus- o    s to cot siut    680 rail -agonu (250 broad ga-ge                            planes.  90% -ust is assaed as forelgn
of 50X of labor A SDT Faeteral.                 (0.1.) ond b30 small Eaoge 10.1.)                           asd 10% as Coral.  The capacicy at  brsad
lane hers attuned e US$30,000 asd                          gauge auoae is anssued 25 run and tbat at
4.  -coocic rout in noeld    nld-198A                 25,000 tespectively for 15 lays                             small Boge vaaga  iu 15 tos.  The disbusseet
pricenosnd is as per para l(b) abort.           torn a.t.  hdlf   mIllIon bas                               urheldle of eag_ns asd crares Is:
5. Ope rtstion  ad  sa lotesoce coat in 1            siding and  frear     ilitiies  st                                   1986   87   88
of cots of hydro poser station.                 narlorn placen.  90X coat is assued                                    40%   40%  20X
Foreign porrion of O&t is 60%.                  as forisgn and 10% locul.  The
oapaclty of broad oooie sagan is                        6. 1 GWh - 860x 10
6. Operol..    a-d  .a.ognasce cost fat               aussed  as 25 tons asd sbat of                                                            - 215 toes
tronsuersutoc lInes aod sobstaccts              s=all aoAe 15 toss.  The dfsbotmecent                               D,4xlO,OOO s 1,000
is 3%. Fot-ign p-rti.n i. 40X.               -ched,h, of -ag... & crsp  s e.1. is:                   7. The.ral energy requlerd Is as pr
7. Econo-Ic life of Mtaryangdi Pos                    1986    1987   1988                                           Alter-atlne  IE.
rraojecr= SO yeasr.                              40%      40%    20X
8. lAM cast is 3% stP. poe  uttio..
8. Planning  eriod Ia oplo FY 2000.               6. 1 GWh =-860xi0                                               FPeeig  portine of O0M Is 60%
--------------- -395 roes                         06M of transisusias Is as pr
0.33A6600 sxlOOO                                  Altersatsie 1.
7. Thermal energy reqlre-d to sobstltote                   9. ECons..I  life - 17 yours.
Ifhrsyngdi hydro energy (GWh)
18. pia..lng perIod Ispta PTOOO.
FT   90  91  92  93  94 95to97 98 99 2000-o7040
0Wh 130 101 254 341 193   0    31 58   150
0. OpratIon asd pina.nasce csas  is 3X of
poser ucatiao  cast.  Psreign pottlntol
O&M Is 60%. 06M foe trunsuesutoc is
as pr NlAl-r-tio 1.
9. ir.no.ic lIft - 20 yeats.
IO. Pla-tieg prIod in oplo FY2000.
Ale ruatist IV
Gat Turbie 3x24 MW
1. Cost of gao t-rbi-s 1500 per sW,
15 is asnd oIas local cost.
2. SCF is as per Oltersatln I.
3. Dilsobrsent pa-toro;
FY               85  06  81  88  89
Po=tr utatios 401 20Z 20% I15 5X
Toanislnt    40X 20% 20% 15% S%
aubs tations
4. Location of poser usaston awl 132kV
hoes Is assI ned astpt F    lttnutiot E1.
0. Diesl all he -tcota-t - 10,000 k-al/1g
The ral effIcIency 25%
Cast of oil at Caottu part   $ 5272 par ton
(1983). No iurrane ia real prices apto
1985. Thereafter real i-r-ean at 3% p...
ban heew aunsued. Traspwtspr toss franv
Calcotta to Birganj = 0S$58 pee ton.
Additsosol 600 rail sagas (225 broad
guge aeI 375 seall ig-ge) haos heen
asssned far 15 oyps tort ardoen. LSS10.0
million hat heesn assuaed for inyrsoeseot
of siding aod crane farlliteu at ratilas
placeu. 90% cost is ossued as foreigs
awd 102 as local. The saparlty of Stold
gaogr .agos is assoed as 25 to. and thbt
of 'I'll gaooa agon is 15 tat. Tbe
ditbornAenet schedohe of esoons 6 cranes
etc. is:
1986   87   88
40l   40X  20%
A. I GUh = 860x10
= 344 tofu
0.25x10,OOOxl .000
7. AO& 10 3X of gas posee staslas.
Foreign partior of 05M is 60%.  10f
of transttssion line n is as per
Altetwat Ire 1.
8. E osanir life Lo 15 years.
9. Platting   eriod is  pti  Ff2000.



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Economic Comparison - Annual Average Energy Availability fro _ Hydrcs
All Fig res are in GWh
Jan    Feb    Mar.   4  .  Mby    June   Jul.   Lu.     .  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Existing Hydros        26.72  21.32  24.69  25.45  31.04  26.60  31.09  33.10  31.82  30.83  26.27  25.92   334.85
Kulekhani I            22.40  21.62  19.05  13.01  10.27  12.57   7.14   2.55   3.35   7.44  13.85  21.45   154.70
KulekhanI II           11.76  11.03   9.79   6.78   5.43   7.17   6.36   5.55   3.81   5.76   7.85  11.32    94.60
Kosi                    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5           2.5     30.00
Marsyangdi   69MW  1/ 27.2   21.1   21.9   29.3   47.5   46.0   47.5   47.5   46.0   47.5   46.0    35.1    462.5
Sapt Gandaki 225MW 2/ 94.4   68.7   71.7   91.7  167.4  162.0  167.4  167.4  162.0  167.4  162.0   127.5   1609.0
1/  Maximum consumable energy in wet months of Hay, July, August, Oct - 32.6 GWh.  It is based
on 70Z plant factor with a capacity of 66 MW. Another 52 energy lt  assumed to be lost due to closure
of the plant for flushing.  On the same basis, consumable energy in the months of Jute, September and
November - 31.6 GWh.
2/  Based on Nippon Koei feasibility report January 1983, net head 40.0 meters during dry
period and combined plant efficiency of 86%.






*   00000000000  10
-  ..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~....              .....      10.....           
I-                                                                                                                                '0~~~~     - - - - - -              - - - - - -          
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ c-Q~o                                                     
0  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    0.tj""    j '~ 0 a0 01
I.                                                                                                       C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0             .   ,a                                                                                                                                         *3~~~~1 t  O1~0. 4   
00                                                                                                                      .00~~~~~~~~~~~   ....        
-   -  ~~~~~~~~~1~~~~  -                                                                                                                                         0011       - -    
ooooo o013000000 0                                                                                                                        01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-,Ooo 
01   0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0 1 0 0101   010 00 00 00 0 01  W W W1 W10          1         10
'0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 44.                  .                               






NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return
Fiscal Year                                       1985      86      87    88    89    90    91    92    93    94   1995-2040
Capital Costs(US Million Dollars)
Project cost including transmission
and distribution works                         43.5.  63.1  62.6  48.5  24.5    -    -
O&M of project works                               -      -     -       -    -       2.51  2.51   2.51  2.51  2.51   2.51
Total ProJect Cost                               43.5   63.1  62.6  48.5  24.5   2.51  2.51   2.51  2.51  2.51    2.51
Sales (GWh)
Total incremental sales GWh(after deducting
20Z loss upto FY92 and 18X thereafter)           -      -     -       -    -   104.5 144.8  208.5 279.7 292.2   293.0
Generation (GWh)                                                                  130.7 181.0  254.3 341.1 356.4   357.3
Tariff
Existing tariff 0.815 NRs or US$0.0526
Proposed tariff 1.1777NRs or US$0.0736 1/
Benefits (US Million Dollars)
Case I
Existing tariff                                                                      5.5   7.6   11.0  14.7  15.4    15.4
Case 2
Proposed tariff                                                                      7.7  10.7   15.3  20.5  21.5    21.6
Internal Rate of Return(%)
Case  1  Case 2
Base Cse                           3.89       5-9
Benefits      10%(+)               4.45       6.44
Benefits      ilO(-)               3.28       5.28
Benefits shifted by
One year                         3.67       5.57
Sale of secondary
energy to India                  6.4        6.4 2/
1/  Proposed tariff in 1991 would be 1.762 NRs (Annex 19).  At 1984 prices, it would, be equivaient to                                   4s
1.1777 NRs or US$0.0736.
2_/ For sale of secondary cncrgy to India, energy surplus to 462 GVTh (.'able 4 of Annex 23) which cannot
be consumed within Nepal has been assumed to be sold to India at existing tariff of 0.14 Indian Rupees (IRs) or
US$0.01273 per Kwh (para 4.03)



Annex 25
- 100 -
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Data and Documents Available in the Project File
A.  Lahmeyer International reports regarding Phase A of the Project:
Vol 1 - Topo survey & transportation route investigation
Vol 2 - Hydrological investigation and study
Vol 3 - Geological survey
Vol 4 - Sedimentation study
Vol 5 - Construction material survey
Vol 6 - Envirornmental & ecological survey
Summary report on Phase A findings and results
B. Lahmeyer International reports regarding investigation and detailed
engineering design:
Vol 1 - Geological and construction material assessment
Vol 2 - Hydraulic design of civil structures
Vol 3 - Design criteria and stability analysis for civil structures
Vol 4 - Design criteria and design of permanent equiment
Vol 5 - Construction schedule and cost estimate
Vol 6 - Near final design drawing
Transmission, substations & distribution extension
C. Lahmeyer International interim report establishing least cost sequence
for power generation expansion.
D.  Lahmeyer International reports on hydraulic model tests:
i) Interim report no. 1
ii) Interim report no. 2
iii) Interim report no. 3
iv) Interim report no. 4
E.  HMG report "Proposal for the establishment of an Electric Power Sector
operations and maintenance training center".
F. NEC annual reports.
G. Reports of Panel of experts and L. I. comments
H. Marsyangdi Hydro Electric Power Project "Feasibility Report"



NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Proposed Nepal ElectrcityAuthority
Proposed Organizotion Chart
CHAIRMAN
I
VICE
CHAIRMAN
C
SaCRETARIAT
F -                                  I                        I
DIRECTORATE              DIRECTCORUE              DIRECTORATI-             DIRECTORATIE
GENERATiON &             DISTRI8UTK)N &              RUMA                   PlANNING
TRANSMISSION           CUJSTOMER SERVICE         ELECTIRIRCA:IION           EVALUATION
MliNi Kif -RvS    .            FINANCE
Word Bank-24578



- 102 -
d~~~~~~~~~
u!~~~ I WA
AI7 X
7
lI~  I _I  I }l
'Iii        Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 169281
'O 80'                 I. TZ-                                                                                                       14,                                                                l@                                                                886  FEBRUARY 1984
A,< g1  \^                                                                                                                                  N E P A L
N-"                   (           _                                                   --MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
-30            -'                  \                                                                                                                       N  POWER SYSTEM                                                                    30
_304  ($        G\\         R         ' '\'                     -                                                                                   PROSPECTIVE  PROJE   CONSTRUCTION  EXISTING
%C,/ /-4s~   '.               l;C                         H          I         N          A                                                     m m         m      Malor hydro power staRions
--                 4                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TraEsmission lines:
,                                  -V        , /  ,-                                                                                                                      -           - ,  _   _  _  132 kv
Th   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                          _ _ _ _ _ _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 6    kV
M 1AN H;KA Z //j----                 g         .4            K A R /V od )                g                                                                                                                   33 kV
KAR    Al                                                                                       ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 kV
5  S   T                                                                         N.\                                                                                                     Power exchange with India
r .                                                                        Zonal boendaries
KARNALI     "< K..                                                                               /             (                                                               Regional boundaries
M- ide Nogur                                  BN               * .' " R                        _                        J                         -*-    nterna-onal boundaries
u l*Dh     ==ruurw  9 \(V yA   KHAPATA                    ..                     ,                                    r       '                                                          -  -  - District boEndaries
N                       N HIEC~~~~~~~[ANI                                                                     L)   0 
.B   3ER/.-  /                                           / I                       N
<<7fi  /      ~SuRKHEA           It H/<                                     D/A   Ig   Z      R/I                                    j      /
A P   I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
IKATHMANDU  VALLEY 1                                     K<  _I b  N"                         /-  SAfhrru  C  >                                       41  *BS     NUTKs /1) < ij 
A'ow O0 Au,          -       t                                                                        I~Pur9S~ Nu                              NI   A  buI
bePHARPING  } \ &                                                                                                          'L..,,,S, Hed                                                       SAGARA HAIA H 5,  I GANDA  VKHIR
Bhuktuejr                                                                                     .                                                                                 'i,,m,vh,                            . hure R-
Ir        JBBPINT-unk------doprI
KATH MrAep See Teep T,ece,eL by The hhdd use', sie c                              icr Ie ccrceIdSAce              TG
-?y   \                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he',, Tcd, c  ,md,i he Ide-ch heSe ,eedir,rrre o T,ec.e ciucc ciin iS' Se Ae h CciSma
X                                                                                                  Bo..1                                                                          UN..KO~~~~~~~~~~5'  A'SE'5
%  _ _   v  Faence Cmp dbCII Thu dEnm>Oons lmed smd E e bo=bm J shomm cn Iho map do nLDK  N 
JALmseEr lTUWl  akadm  dalF  eWmmbaysdmn 
_ <\ on he b,2S1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sAbsc n btI  n m  elo cehneo mmae d  6d



