Page  1
0,1,675<\032)\03/2&$/\03*29(510(17\03\03
WADI SHAER JOINT SERVICE COUNCIL - WSJSC  
WADI SHAER JOINT SERVICES COUNCIL SOLID WASTE 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT - TF 053262
 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN  
FOR  
 ANABTA DUMPSITE WASTE PICKERS  
 
September 2009
 
fi
5
3
Page  2
1
Table of content
Page 
1. Background 
2
2. Objectives 
2
3. Census 
Survey 
2
4. 
Consultation with PAP about acceptable compensation schemes 
5
5. 
Institutional responsibility for implementing the grievance redress 
6
6. 
Arrangements for monitoring and implementation   
8
7. Timetable 
and 
budget 
 
9
8. Annexes 
 
a. 
Annex (1): Waste pickers list in the Anabta Dump site 
b. Annex 
(2):
 Photos for waste pickers in Anabta dumpsite
 
10 
11 
 
Page  3
2
1. Background: 
In the context of improving the solid waste management system in the West Bank and Gaza, 
the Government of Italy (GOI) has contributed to the Palestinian Authority (PA) a grant for 
the amount of EURO 1.36 million to implement a solid waste management project. The 
objective of this project is to improve the environmental living conditions of the people of 
Anabta and surrounding villages through an environmentally sound solid waste management 
system. This project is planned to provide a component to establish a transfer station in 
Anabta region and transfer the solid waste (about 40 tons per day) from the station to the 
Zahrat Al-Finjan sanitary landfill which was recently constructed under the SWEMP and 
operational since July 2007. Currently, burning of waste is a very common practice. 
This project includes investments in the Wadi Shaeer area in Tulkarm governorate region for 
the purpose of providing solid waste management services to Anabta and selected 
surrounding villages related to the construction of a regional transfer station, construction of a 
transmission water pipeline, construction of an electrical MV line, and access roads to the 
new facilities. In addition the project will also support the closure and rehabilitation of 3 
random small and remote dumpsites (Ramin, Kufr Al-Labad and Iktaba) and the temporary 
rehabilitation and management of the current regional dumpsite in Anabta and its closure 
once the new facilities are in place and operational. Four (4) people will be affected by the 
closure of these dumpsites (Project Affected People (PAP)), and therefore the need to prepare 
and implement a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) is required and included in this document. 
Due to the limited number of PAPs, an Abbreviated RAP is prepared to provide a review, 
analysis and recommendations of appropriate mitigation measures to be taken during project 
design and implementation by the project executing agency (WSJSC). 
2. Objectives of this ARAP  
This document aims to propose a plan of action for finding an alternative work for this 
category of people who practice waste picking in the project area. This document also 
provides a description of the socio-economic conditions of the PAP; proposes alternatives and 
solutions in terms of providing employment opportunities and income after the closure of the 
dump sites have been closed. This document also presents the responsibilities to arrange for 
monitoring and implantation; implementation time table and budget. 
3. Census Survey 
A
social development consultant has been contracted by the WSJSC to carry out a detailed 
review of the PAPs and work closely with them and the client towards satisfactory agreement 
of grievance mechanism.  
An observation and monitoring process of the site was used as primary tools for data 
collection between the period of August 6 
–
18, 2009.  This process took place at different 
times during the day. This is in order to identify the waste pickers who come to the dumping 
site and pickup the waste on a daily basis, and to document the knowledge and methods of 
waste picking and transfer to final destination.  
A
questionnaire
1
was prepared for this purpose which consisted of the identification of five 
themes related to personal data, social, and the process of exhumation and scavenging, 
exploration and scavenging procedures, and the quantity of waste that is collected on a daily 
basis; in preparation for an interview with these waste pickers. 
Field visits and interviews with the PAP have been arranged by the WSJSC. The interviews 
aimed to document the social, economic, and health aspects, in addition to the future of their 
career in the event that the dumping site was closed, and the alternatives they propose, or can 
be provided to them. 
1
Questionnaires and Results in the Arabic language are kept on file. 
Page  4
3
Figure 1: interview with waste pickers 
The study population consisted of waste pickers who come to Wadi Shaer dumping site on 
daily basis and regularly and collect solid wastes. There were four adult males (one non-
systematic in his work), in addition to the children of one father who participated in the work 
during the school summer holidays only. The following 
Table 1 summarizes some of the 
social characteristics of waste pickers.  
Independent Group 
Number of respondents  
Nour Shams 
refugee camp  
Thinnaba Village  
Total 
Place of  residence 
3
1
4
Married Single   
Marital status 
3
1
4
Elementary school
Secondary school 
 
Level of Education 
3
1
4
UNRWA Private 
  
Ownership of housing
3
1
4
6
or less 
10 
1 (single) 
 
Family size 
2
1
1
Father 
Father and 
sons 
Not applicable  
 
Breadwinner 
2
1
1
4
5
or less 
6-10 
 
Number of years of 
work in the dump site 
1
3
4
From Table 1, it can be concluded that three of the waste pickers are residing in the Nur 
Shams refugee camp (some the kilometers from the dumpsite), and one lives in a village 
Thinnaba. Three out of the four interviewed waste pickers are married, and three of them have 
elementary education while one has secondary education.. Regarding the ownership of homes 
that they live in, three out of the fours home are owned by the UNRWA while the fourth is 
privately owned. The number of households of those waste pickers varies from 6 members 
(applicable to two pickers) and ten members (applicable to one picker) and one picker with no 
dependents. The number of years of work of waste pickers in the dumping site for 5 years or 
less was one, and the rest worked to a period ranging between 6 - 10 years. 
Page  5
4
Table 2 summarizes the most important types of collected solid wastes and the rate of income. 
Material Quantity 
collected 
per day (kg) 
Unit Price 
(NIS/kg) 
Daily average 
income (NIS) 
Notes 
Iron
 
20-30 0.3-0.5 15 
Iron is classified according 
to its thickness*
 
Aluminu
m
5
2
10 
Cookers, windows, doors
 
Copper
 
0.5-1.5 14 21 
Cables
 
Plastic
 
Not known 
0.3 
----- 
Chairs sold in a different 
way
 
*Iron products class A: rod-building, motor vehicle, bridges.  
*Iron products class B: Wire frames, the body of a car, metal containers, beverage cans
 
*Total monthly income for each of them varies 1,196 NIS  
From Table 2 it is clear that the main items of solid waste collected by waste pickers were the 
iron, aluminum, copper and plastic.  These items give a good financial return when selling 
them to the competent authorities. It is noted that the average daily income without the plastic 
is about NIS 46 per day, or the average monthly income is about NIS 1,196. 
Figure 2: Types of collected waste 
 
Results related to the waste picking process 
·
Number of hours of exploration in the landfill: 8-9 hours per day except Friday.  
·
Times of exploration in the landfill: from 5 am to 2 -3 pm. 
·
Materials that are sold: iron, plastic, aluminum, copper. 
·
Mechanism for collecting these materials: waste is collected and then sorted, by the 
waste pickers and each item is placed alone in the bags. 
·
Mechanism for the transfer of waste outside the landfill: For all waste pickers, solid 
wastes are transported via bicycle or horse-drawn vehicle to the Nour Shams refugee 
Page  6
5
camp to be delivered to the dealer and the broker (Salah Abu Yacoub in Tulkarem - 
Salam Street). 
·
Waste pickers does not work for factories or  companies, but work in a personal 
capacity and are not linked with anyone. 
·
Mechanism for the sale of such wastes or materials that are collected: sold to 
intermediaries in turn sell to Brokers within the Green Line for recycling. 
·
Also, waste pickers have a different professional skill such as building field, plumber 
and gardening which they were worked inside green line before year 2000. 
 
From the interviews, there were a number of reasons that pushed the PAP to take on waste 
picking in the Anabta dumpsite. These include: a) loss of employment due to the closure 
imposed on Palestinian laborers working in Israel after the start of the 2
nd
 intifada in 2000, b) 
very limited opportunities in their communities, and c) the low education levels that was an 
obstacle to their getting other types of jobs. Some of them were exercising some of this work 
within the Green Line in landfills. They also see that the practice of the waste picking as a 
profession or work better than begging on any case.  
The PAP who reside in the nearby Nur Shams refugee camp worked for a limited period with 
the UNRWA
’s interim emergency program (they worked four times and each time period of 3 
months and was done in the collection of solid waste in the Nur Shams refugee camp), and 
they are working in the care of the gardens of some houses, or digging graves.  
Verification of Waste Pickers: 
A
survey of waste pickers was carried out by the Social 
Specialist and information was based on the above described interviews with waste pickers 
and staff from the WSJSC. 
4. Consultation with PAP about acceptable compensation schemes 
In addition to the socio-economic study carried out by Social Development Specialist, 
consultations were also carried with the WSJSC to ensure that comprehensive information 
about waste pickers at Wadi shaer dump site are properly filed.  
The waste pickers and some NGOs have also been consulted about the impact of closure of 
Anabta dump site on their socio-economic status. Specifically, options for employment and 
other interests were discussed in light of the soon to be closed dump site. Such options 
include temporary employment during the rehabilitation of the dumpsites and the construction 
of the transfer station which may take at up to 8 months. Other options were post construction 
of the transfer station, i.e. during the operations stage.  
The Social Committee of the WSJSC is responsible to find suitable compensation for waste 
pickers in the public or private sectors. So, this section of the ARP presents two types of 
compensation schemes targeted at the PAP related to this project, and documents processes, 
plans and schemes that have been put in place to facilitate livelihood restoration of waste 
pickers. This ARAP considers two types of compensation: 
Non-monetary compensation:
 Waste picking is unhealthy and unsafe work and it designates 
these affected people with a social stigma in their society. Therefore, the WSJSC Social 
Committee seeks to compensate the waste pickers through alternative work opportunities that 
are safe and financially rewarding. This will implemented through relevant training in waste 
separation and / or alternative employment opportunities in projects and activities initiated by 
the WSJSC, or work at the soon to be opened neighboring poultry farm. 
Monetary compensation:
 
aims at compensating the waste pickers on any impact which may 
be incurred to their livelihoods due to the closure and rehabilitation of the dumpsites. Though 
the main preference is to provide the affected people with other means to sustain their 
livelihoods as stated in the previous paragraph, and as a last resort, the WSJSC Social 
Page  7
6
Committee may revert to some financial compensation to be agreed to with the affected 
people.  
Compensation schemes and agreements between the WSJSC Social committee and the PAPs 
are undergoing to ensure that fair compensations are provided through the possible alternative 
job opportunities. The following Table 3 shows acceptable alternatives by the concerned 
parties. 
Type of 
loss 
Category  
Proposed Entitlement 
Remarks 
Waste pickers at Wadi 
Shaer dump site 
surveyed by the social 
specialist 
Identify waste pickers 
and prepare formal 
document for the 
WSJSC 
To determine the WSJSC 
with person work at dump 
site regularly to find 
suitable compensation for 
them 
Adult waste pickers  
Provide 
them 
with 
alternative employment 
through the SWEMP or 
within Anabta 
municipality 
Waste pickers receive 
support from organization 
and contracting work 
Waste pickers who 
don’t accept to work 
in rehabilitation of the 
dump site  
Provide them with 
employment at the newly 
constructed fuel station 
or at under construction 
poultry farm. 
Waste pickers chose this 
alternative. 
Loss of 
income 
Provide them with 
alternative employment 
at the transfer station and 
other related infra 
structure during 
construction. 
Many have construction 
experience and work in 
construction is appealing.  
Waste pickers at Wadi 
Shaer dump site 
Facilitate to find job 
opportunities in 
upcoming WSJSC 
supported construction 
projects. 
WSJSC has issued a new 
contract to construct a new 
public swimming pool in 
same area. 
5. Institutional responsibility for implementing the grievance redress 
 
The following Table 4 provides an overview of the institutional responsibilities for 
implementing the ARAP. 
 
Implementation 
Stages
 
Agency 
Responsibilities
 
Project 
Preparation 
WSJSC & 
Anabta 
Municipality
 
1. 
Prepare ARAP and disclose it. 
2. 
Assist in securing the necessary financial resources 
for compensation  
Page  8
7
Implementation 
Stages
 
Agency 
Responsibilities
 
WSJSC
 
1. 
Formation of the Social Committee 
2. 
Assist to coordinate with NGO that plans and 
facilitates the waste pickers support. 
 
3.  Identification all affected persons, advising them
of their rights,  
4. 
Disclose locally the ARAP to affected persons, 
5. Follow-
up all matters of public and NGO concern 
with regard to any complaints that may arise 
during the implementation process.  
6. 
Direct contacts with affected persons either 
individually or in groups. 
Negotiations
 
Ministry of Local 
Government / 
WSJSC 
Conduct consultation meetings with the project 
affected people at the dump sites, inform them about 
the ARAPs and their right to obtain compensations, 
and find their priorities and preferences 
Ministry of Local 
Government 
Overall monitoring 
Wadi Shaeer 
municipalities 
mainly Anabta 
municipality
 
Implement ARAP 
WSJSC 
Undertake community liaison (day to day operation) 
Project 
Implementation
 
Page  9
8
Implementation 
Stages
 
Agency 
Responsibilities
 
Social 
Committee of 
WSJSC
 
1. Conduct surveys and con
sultation meetings with 
waste pickers to negotiation them about the 
compensations options, and explore the preferences 
of the waste pickers. 
2. 
Coordination with the management of the transfer 
station to negotiate employment or contract 
opportunities for indi
vidual or association of adult 
waste pickers  
3. 
Arrange cooperation with NGOs or private firms to 
give employment or contract opportunities for 
individual or associations of adult waste pickers  
4.  Coordination with the social department of Anabta
and surrounding municipalities
for arranging 
support through social affairs program in UNRWA.
Courts 
Final say in disputes regarding ownership rights and 
compensation 
External 
Monitoring 
Ensure compliance with funding agreement 
Grievance: 
Waste pickers do not have any legal right on the basis of which they can bring a 
claim for compensation for loss of income before a court. That does not mean that they cannot 
try to do so, but it is unlikely that a court will be able to assist them. Therefore the Social 
Committee is to be set up under the WSJSC to hear any concerns/ disputes with waste 
pickers. The WSJSC has mandated the Social Committee as a sub-committee of the WSJSC. 
It comprises of the Chairman of the WSJSC, 
Mayor of Bla’a, the Project Manager and Social 
Development Specialist, a consultant who has been contracted under the Project for 
developing the detailed mechanisms in relation to the waste pickers.  
 
The Social Committee will carry-out further stakeholder consultations with the waste pickers 
to arrive at mutually agreed grievance measures and implementation mechanisms. The 
WSJSC will commit to be bound by the decisions of the Social Committee and to implement 
the measures agreed by the Social Committee through a process that will be formulated by the 
Social Committee and acceptable to the World Bank and it will commit to enforce the 
measures decided by the Social Committee to reach an outcome that is described in this 
ARAP using the resources set aside for this purpose under the Project. The WSJSC will 
ensure that sufficient resources are made available to implement the measures, and agree to 
increase the amounts currently calculated if the Bank considers this necessary. 
 
6. Arrangements for monitoring and implementation 
 
Following are four foreseen forms of ARAP monitoring:
 
1. 
Internal Monitoring
.
The WSJSC will be primary internal monitoring of ARAP 
implementation.  The WSJSC will monitor the progress of ARAP implementation 
against predetermined performance targets, and facilitate the work of the external and 
Page  10
9
independent monitors through effective record keeping and the preparation of 
periodic Project Progress Reports. The Municipalities will provide early warning of 
ARAP related project difficulties and concerns and will ensure affected persons 
concerns are adequately addressed by the project. The WSJSC and the Municipalities 
will jointly ensure that payments are made to the correct individuals in accordance 
with the compensation agreements. 
2. 
NGO Participation: 
An NGO will be contracted by the WSJSC to support the 
detailed design and implementation of the various proposed schemes and measures 
mentioned above or any additional acceptable schemes. 
3. 
Bank monitoring. 
Bank supervision missions will regularly and systematically 
review the progress of ARAP implementation and reference their findings in aide-
memoirs. 
4. 
Independent mid-Term/End of Project Evaluation. 
An independent review of 
implementation progress and any problems will be commissioned prior to mid-term 
review and discussed at it.  This review will undertake field visits and will hold 
consultations with project-affected persons in order to determine their experiences, 
document problems, solutions and any unresolved issues, with recommendations.  
Action taken on this review shall constitute a component of the project 
Implementation Completion Report, as required by Bank procedures. The Bank does 
not consider a project fully complete until satisfactory ARAP outcomes are 
registered.   
7. Timetable and budget 
The expenses involved in this ARAP are the costs that the project has to cover for 
compensation for those losing their income opportunities from waste picking at the Wadi 
Shaer dumpsite during implementation of SWEMP. Sector two presented the principles on 
which the costs have been estimated. The following Table 5 present the estimated budget 
related to this ARAP in New Israeli Shekels 
Compensation Parameter 
Wadi shaer
\03
Costs (NIS)
\03
Total 
Costs (NIS) 
Waste picker live hood support 
41,600 
41,600 
·
US$1.0 equivalent to NIS4.0 
**The ARAP presents the frameworks of the Resettlement Action Plan to protect the interest of households that 
are negatively affected by the project so that the social risks are minimized and thereby the regional solid waste 
project enjoys wide societal support. 
 
All waste pickers will be given compensation to cover their needs during rehabilitation or 
construction period in the dump site so, the following equation shows details: 
Each pickers will work on daily pay system during compensation period which will be 
extended over 8 months (project duration) so, each day will take NIS 50 and in return will 
work 26 day per a month: 
NIS 50 X (26 day/m.) = NIS 1,300 per month per PAP 
NIS 1,300 X (4 pickers) = NIS 5,200 per month 
NIS 5,200 X (8 months) = NIS 41,600 (~ US$ 10,400) 
 
Table 6: Time table to implement RAP
 
Activity
 
Responsibility
\03
Date 
Page  11
10
Waste picker notification about closing 
dump site 
WSJSC Social 
Committee 
October 1, 2009 
Find temporary job opportunities 
WSJSC Social 
Committee 
October 1 
–
November 
1, 2009 
Create permanent job contract in private 
sector or NGOs 
WSJSC Social 
Committee 
April 1 – 30, 2010 
 
Page  12
11
 
Annex (1) List of Waste Pickers in Wadi Shaer
 
No. Picker 
name  Age 
Family 
member 
no.
 
Place of resident 
fi
Nassri Younis Iamor 
ffl
Thenabeh 
Fared Saed Mohammed Aaian
Nur shams camp 
Abdullah Fared Mohammed Aaian
fl
-----
 
Nur shams camp 
Yaser Assad Saleh Saforee
fl
fifl
 
Nur shams camp 
Page  13
12
 
Annex 2: Some of photos for waste pickers in Anabta dumpsite 
 
WB203369 
C:\Users\wb203369\Documents\Ibrahim June 2008\WBG\SWEMP\Anabta\WBG _ Anabta SWEMP _(P 
053262)_ARAP_WASTE PICKERS (revised 9 26 2009).docx 
9/27/2009 8:23:00 AM 
Page  14
13
 
