                                                                                                            95852
West Bank and Gaza Solid Waste Management Project                                                    November 8, 2010




 SOLID WASTE AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

 Improving solid waste management in a highly volatile
 environment




Overview
Drawing on World Bank Group Trust Fund financing and expertise since 2001, the Palestinians
were able to improve solid waste management and environmental conditions in 80 communities
in Jenin Governorate, with a population of 200,000 people. They achieved this by establishing
a new sanitary landfill, closing and rehabilitating 85 dumpsites, and improving waste collection
services. Towards the end of the project, the new landfill was expanded to serve all five
governorates that comprise the northern West Bank (population 600,000), providing for further
cost saving and enhancing public-private partnerships.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA


As a cornerstone project of the Bank’s 1997
strategy of institutional, governance and sector-
specific restructuring and reform, SWEMP
helped place both the environment and Jenin on
the policy agenda. However, the SWEMP launch
coincided almost exactly with the beginning of
the second Palestinian Intifada. By November
2000, Israeli-Palestinian military hostilities had
left some 1,500 Palestinians and 400 Israelis
dead, and they had a major negative effect on
Palestine’s economy, its social fabric, and
institutions. They also had an extremely negative
impact on the implementation of SWEMP effort in Jenin, a
major battlefield. Still, SWEMP was able to overcome the           More Results
major challenges associated with political uncertainty and
security by attracting international consultants to design and


                                                                   600,000
supervise the construction, as well as international
contractors to build the new sanitary landfill. Moreover,
SWEMP was able to achieve serious reforms in municipal
management of waste through joint responsibilities under the       people living in West Bank are
                                                                   enjoying safe disposal of their
umbrella of the new Joint Service Council. Finally, SWEMP          municipal waste at the new
was able to create opportunities for dialogue on key               sanitary landfill
environment issues between the Palestinians and the
Israelis, even under very difficult political conditions.

Approach                                                           85
                                                                   uncontrolled dumpsites in Jenin
SWEMP supported the Palestinian Authority’s (PA)                   and Tubas were closed and
development plan by establishing key infrastructure that in        rehabilitated
turn encouraged private investments while delivering a
cleaner environment to the Palestinian population.
Furthermore, the SWEMP task team helped foster
Palestinian-Israeli cooperation and an exchange of
experiences towards designing and constructing a first-of-its-       MORE INFORMATION
kind sanitary landfill in the region. This approach was useful
                                                                      Project Profile
even under the severe restrictions on movement in the West
Bank. SWEMP was one of the few projects that faced fewer              Country Website
restrictions, and construction material and laborers were             Country Brief
allowed easier access. The restriction actually presented
                                                                      Multi Donor Trust Fund for the
opportunities for creativeness, such as the replacement of
                                                                      Palestinian Reform and
one of the landfill liner (60 centimeters of clay) with a two         Development Plan
millimeter polyethylene layer. This adjustment in design
provided some 60,000 cubic meters of additional landfill              Data and Statistics
space. Moreover, the pilot recycling of plastic enabled the           Assessment of Restrictions on
creation of a few jobs for unemployed workers in neighboring          Palestinian Water Sector
communities, generating income to the Jenin-Joint Service             Development
Council while reducing the total amount of land-filled waste.         The Jenin Joint Services Council
                                                                      for Solid Waste Management
                                                                      page
Results

A credit from the International Development Association
(IDA), together with a grant from the European Commission         
(EC) grant was able to achieve the following results:

      About 600,000 people living in the northern West Bank are now enjoying safe disposal
      of their municipal waste at the new sanitary landfill, compared to 200,000 at appraisal;

      Yields from the landfill operation are not only able to pay back the IDA credit, but are
      also generating sufficient surpluses to maintain and improve service levels, replace
      equipment, and expand the landfill once the current capacity is exhausted. Sustainability
      should also be further enhanced by the expected private sector-led recycling operation.

      Some 85 uncontrolled dumpsites in Jenin and Tubas were closed and rehabilitated,
      freeing up 1,200 dunums of rehabilitated land that are now open for development. This
      also led to an increase in value of neighboring properties; and.

      The expanded landfill service coverage also freed up scarce land in the northerhnWest
      Bank that had been designated for at least two additional landfills; one in Tulkarem and
      a second in Nablus.

Bank Contribution

The Bank is leading donors in this sector. IDA has contributed nearly 67 percent or US$9.5
million toward the overall US$14 million SWEMP cost. During the same period, the Bank
administered a contribution of US$1.6 million toward solid waste management in the northern
West Bank. The success of the Bank’s activities led to an IDA grant of US$12 million toward a
follow-on project in southern West Bank. The Bank is considering financing a similar project in
the Gaza Strip that is currently under preparation. Other indirect support to solid waste
management has been through the urban sector and, in particular, municipal services support
projects.  

Partners

There was a strong partnership among key development partners in West Bank Gaza solid
waste management sector. Periodic meetings led by the Ministry of Local Government with the
participation of the four most active donors (IDA, European Commission, Germany, and Italy)
helped coordinate and complement investments and analytical work.
The IDA credit for SWEMP was complemented by a US$4.3million grant from the EC and
US$1.6m from Italy in seven Tulkarem communities. Current contributions include US$20
million from Germany’s KfW for middle West Bank solid waste management projects and
US$20 million from World Bank Group Trust Funds and the EC for the southern West Bank
projects. Coordinated support has helped contribute to a satisfactory response to Palestinian
needs and priorities.

Toward the Future

The PA solid waste management strategy adopted in July 2010 recognizes the achievements
in this sector in the northern West Bank, and it reflects the lessons learned from this
experience. It also adopts policies and measures to ensure the sustainability of the outcome
from the investments. This is exemplified through a policy to encourage public-private
partnerships, whether in collection and disposal of waste or in turning waste into resources
through the development of recycling and compositing schemes. Similarly, it calls for a revisit
of waste collection fees to ensure that it is representative of the costs borne by the service
providers, which are primarily the municipalities.

Beneficiaries

About 600,000 Palestinians in the northern West Bank now enjoy safe disposal of their
municipal waste. One resident who was part of a documentary film prepared for the project
expressed his satisfaction with the initiative, noting that it closed and rehabilitated a dumpsite
near his house, leading to a better use of the land and an increase in neighboring land values.
 

 
