FILE         COPY           CIRCULATING 
XRETURl,NED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1605-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
WEST BENGAL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 10, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As at March 18, 1975)
US$1.00        =    Rs. 7.84
Rs. 1.00       =    US$0.128
Rs. 1 million  =    US$127,585
The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed Pound Sterling
rate. As the Pound is now floating relative to the US
Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the appraisal report and in this
report have been retained at US$1 = Rs. 8.0 which is the
short term average exchange rate.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TlIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$34 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project designed to assist agricultural develop-
ment in the State of West Bengal. The major portion of the proceeds of the
credit would be channelled through the Government of India to the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC). ARC would on-lend the funds to participating
commercial banks and the State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) for
relending to farmers for investment in tubewells and to tihe West Bengal
State Minor Irrigation Corporation (MIC) for the construction of deep tube-
wells. Funds would also be provided for relending to Market Committees (MC)
for the construction of regulated markets and to private individuals for
investment in agro-service centers. The remaining funds would be channelled
through the Government of India to the Government of West Bengal to help
finance the completion of existing state owned river lift and deep tubewell
schemes and to provide equipment, technical assistance and staff training.
PART I - TIE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(402-IN, dated M4ay 7, 1974) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1974. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and the difficulty of its economic conditions. India's
economic policies and performance have their shortcomings, many of which are
attributable to the open political system, where the reconciliation of
conflicting political views tends to inhibit optimal economic Lsolutions;
othiers are due to the sheer magnitude of the task facing tile Government.
Governing a country divided into more than 20 states with a population of
some 580 million and over 60 languages is an extraordinary responsibility.
The country's poverty and poor natural resource endowment, supplemented by
a net transfer of external resources averaging in recent years well below
US$1 per head per annum, nave imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth.
Any judgment of lndia's economic performance must take these underlying cir-
cumstances into account. So, also, must account be taken of the uncertainties
imposed by the erratic availability of water.   A bad monsoon, which is in-
evitable from time to time, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy
and wipes out the results of years of effort.



- 2 -
4.        In the past 25 years, national income has grown at nearly 4% per
annum, which compares very favorably with the average annual growth rate of
less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. Population has also grown faster
in the past two decades than previously, but per capita income has neverthe-
less risen from a more or less stagnant level in the first half of this cen-
tury to achieve an average growth of roughly 1% a year since independence.
5.        Progress has been impressive on many fronts, but disappointing on
others, and has all too often fallen short of India's massive needs. The
growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport, education, health
services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been achieved at high
cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many industrial and agri-
cultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others have taken
excessively long to be completed and have operated well below full capacity.
In some regions of the country, growth and structural change have been rapid
and compare favorably with developments in many other parts of the world,
but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly even decline.
Despite these improvements and although the distribution of income in India
is relatively even by comparison with many other countries, there has been
little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of the urban
and rural population. The Government has become increasingly concerned
about the plight of the lower income strata, which consist of some 200 million
people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated
in recent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate
poverty.
6.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly and
since the late 1960s has remained approximately constant at a level of 23%e
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one-
third, each compared with an overwhelming preponderence of consumer goods
production 25 years ago.
7.        The economic report of May 1974 contained a review of the immense
difficulties confronting the Indian economy as the Fourth Plan period drew
to a close. The final year of the Plan, 1973/74, witnessed a severe deteriora-
tion in India's terms of trade which was led by, but by no means restricted
to, the dramatic increase in oil prices. The resulting balance of payments
difficulties were compounded by the need for food imports following the
drought of 1972/73, in order to sustain the public distribution system on
which the poorest section of society is particularly dependent. Given India's
pervasively agricultural economy, the drought also had the effect of slowing
down economic activity which was further aggravated by infrastructure
constraints, particularly widespread power shortages and labor problems of
Indian Railways. Food shortages and other scarcities touched off an un-
precedented inflationary spiral fueled by large budgetary deficits which
were at least partly attributable to mounting expenditures for drought relief.
The inflation in turn contributed to labor unrest while efforts to cope with



-3-
it through budgetary cuts affected, among other things, the level of real
expenditures for development programs.
8.        Thus, at the commencement of the Fifth Plan period (1974/75-1978/79)
the most urgent tasks facing policy makers were: to get agricultural pro-
duction moving again; to bring inflation under control; to reduce India's
dependence on oil imports by compressing energy consumption and by formulating
and implementing programs to develop domestic energy sources; to boost export
earnings and to tap additional sources of aid in order to sustain imports;
and, finally, to maintain a minimum investment program so as to avoid economic
standstill in the longer run. Even in the best of times, it would have been
extremely difficult to pursue simultaneously such a variety of potentially
inconsistent objectives.
9.        Events since the preparation of the last economic report provide
little encouragement. For the second time in the last three years, the weather
has let down India's farmers with the result that the kharif (fall) crop
recently harvested is believed to be considerably below last year's (about
60 million tons as compared with 67 million tons). The outlook for the
present rabi (spring) crop is quite encouraging despite continuing shortages
of power for irrigation pumps and possible fertilizer shortages. However the
reduced availability of foodgrains and the depletion of official food stocks
during the course of 1974, and frequent changes in the Government's food
procurement policy have led to hoarding for both speculative and insurance
purposes thus making procurement for public distribution extremely difficult.
10.       The balance of payments situation is likely to remain difficult
in the current year as there will be a continued need for foodgrain imports,
hopefully at a somewhat lower level than the 6-7 million tons required last
year, and because there is little evidence of a major break in the prices
of other commodities imported in substantial quantities by India (e.g. oil,
fertilizers, steel, non-ferrous metals, rock phosphate). One of the few
bright spots in the balance of payments picture has been the growth of export
earnings. Export earnings recorded an unprecedented increase of about 22%
in 1973/74 and are expected to rise again by 29% in 1974/75. While these
increases - particularly that in 1973/74 - are primarily attributable to
unit value increases caused by worldwide inflation, there is greater willing-
ness to take advantage of export opportunities, as illustrated most dra-
matically by the recent diversion of sugar from domestic consumption to
exports.
11.       Nevertheless, despite the increase in export earnings, India is
expected to run a massive trade deficit this year - probably of the order
of US$1,800 million as compared with US$560 million in 1973/74 and a negli-
gible one the previous year. Moreover, despite the magnitude of the current
deficit, it is unlikely that India's imports, excluding foodgrains, will
be as large in volume as in 1972/73. In addition to financing a trade
deficit of this order, India will have to meet debt service payments of about
US$730 million. These financing requirements will be partly offset through



- 4 -
Consortium assistance and non-Consortium aid (including assistance from oil
producing countries), which are together expected to reach disbursement levels
of about US$1,750 million in 1974/75 compared with about US$1,775 in 1973/74.
Nevertheless, these various sources of financing hardly measure up to India's
current requirements. India will have to draw on her foreign exchange
reserves, which, at about US$1,400 million, are currently equivalent to less
than three months of imports. During FY1974/75 India has drawn down her
first credit tranche in the IMF for US$282 million, as well as her gold
tranche for US$91 million. The Government has also taken advantage of the
Oil Facility from which US$240 million was drawn in October.
12.       On the domestic front, the Government's present efforts are con-
centrated primarily on maximizing production in key sectors through a system
of priorities in the allocation of scarce resources and through careful
monitoring of developments and performance. In agriculture this entails
provision of power on a priority basis for minor irrigation and fertilizer
production and allocation of adequate foreign exchange for as much fertilizer
as can be imported from the limited world supplies. Similarly, efforts are
made to identify production bottlenecks in such sectors as fertilizer pro-
duction, coal mining and power generation; and special arrangements exist
for meeting expeditiously the foreign exchange requirements of these sectors
for such items as captive power units where appropriate, spares and replace-
ment parts. The railways are also tied into this system and accord priority
to the movement of goods required by these sectors. In the fertilizer, coal
and power sectors, senior officials are provided on a continuing basis with
detailed production figures along with explanations for production shortfalls.
Attempts are also being made to rationalize the administrative machinery of
the Government in these sectors, as evidenced by the October 1974 decision
to bring irrigation under the wing of the Food and Agriculture Ministry
and to regroup power generation and coal mining under an Energy Ministry.
13.       The recent discovery of new oil reserves offshore in the Bombay
High structure has considerably improved prospects for domestic oil pro-
duction, which presently accounts for about 7 to 8 million tons or one third
of India's consumption. It is still too early to give a firm estimate of the
overall level of extractable reserves concentrated there, but it is possible
that in the early 1980s output from this field could double the present
domestic production. So, even after allowing for some increase in demand,
it is possible that Bombay High production could reduce India's future oil
import needs considerably. However, the feasibility of the program to
extract Bombay High oil will depend upon the availability of expertise,
finance and equipment, and while the Government of India may be able to
overcome the first two constraints, the international scarcity of offshore
oil extraction equipment may delay exploitation.
14.       In the short term, however, there are limits to the extent to which
India's dependence on oil imports can be reduced and production of domestic
sources of energy can be stepped up. Insofar as the compression of demand
for oil products is concerned, these limits are determined, on the one hand,
by the relatively small proportion of oil products used for private con-



-5-
sumption (possibly one-sixth) and, on the other hand, by the limited avail-
ability of domestic substitutes (i.e. coal and power). The 13 million tons
of crude oil plus 3 million tons of product imports planned for the current
year probably represent the lower limit beyond which these imports cannot be
curbed without serious repercussions on domestic production. Had consumption
been allowed to grow in line with recent trends, the present level of crude
and product imports taken together would probably be of the order of at
least 18 million tons.
15.       A major effort is being made to use existing capacity as fully as
possible throughout the economy. To this end, despite the serious balance
of payments problem described above, the Government is pursuing a relatively
liberal policy toward imports of raw materials required by industry. Never-
theless, it is hard to get away from the current infrastructure constraints
and particularly the shortage and unreliability of power supplies which,
though somewhat eased, continue to affect production. Fiscal and monetary
policies, including the cutback in budgetary expenditures and limitations
on bank credit, are also restraining industrial output; and there is some
evidence that, due to rapidly rising food prices and the consequent erosion
of real purchasing power, the demand for some consumer items and industrial
projects is being affected. Given the various constraints, there is likely
to be little or no industrial growth in the current year which, in combina-
tion with the current agricultural situation, makes it unlikely that there
will be any GNP growth either. In regard to inflation, the Government has
made impressive efforts to curb budgetary expenditures and to tap additional
sources of revenue. In spite of continuing food shortages and other scarcities,
these actions appear now to have achieved some results as the rate of inflation
had declined to 23% by the end of November 1974.
16.       In present circumstances the Draft Fifth Plan, published in late
1973, has not been finalized. In real terms investment in the current Annual
Plan is about 30% below the annual level implicit in the Draft Fifth Plan,
and even this is unlikely to be reached. To adjust to reduced resource
availability a number of investments are being postponed. Expenditures on
some of the social sectors such as education and family planning are unfor-
tunately also affected. The focus once again is primarily on investments
in key sectors such as fertilizer, coal, power, and steel, and quite rightly
within these sectors the emphasis is on completing ongoing investments before
committing resources to new schemes.
17.       In the long run, given her groundwater, coal, hydroelectric, iron
ore, non-ferrous metals and human resources, India undoubtedly has the capa-
bility to overcome her present difficulties. It is, however, clear that to
overcome them and to resume the interrupted process of economic development,
India will require substantially larger capital inflows than foreseen by the
authors of the Draft Fifth Plan. It is equally clear that as large as possi-
ble a proportion of these requirements should be provided on concessional
terms. However, even on very optimistic assumptions regarding India's success
in narrowing her resource gap and the response of both Consortium and other
donors, a gap will remain between external financing requirements and the
availability of concessional aid.



-6-
18.       India's external public debt outstanding on March 31, 1973, stood
at US$9.9 billion. As a consequence of world-wide inflation and its effects
on India's export earnings, service payments of about US$730 million due on
this debt in 1974/75 are expected to be equivalent to about 17% of merchandise
exports as compared with about 26% in 1972/73. However, substantial addi-
tional debt will have to be incurred as a result of increases in the prices
of India's imports. In the future, therefore, the debt service ratio is
likely to rise, given the magnitude of India's requirements and the un-
avoidability of having to finance part of these on non-concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 43 loans and 68 development
credits to India totalling US$1,338 million and US$3,295 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$679 million has been
repaid, and US$1,319 million was still undisbursed as of February 28, 1975.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of February 28,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$51.8
million, of which US$8.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.3 million cancelled.   Of the balance of US$29.9 million, US$22.8 million
represents loans and US$7.1 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of February 28, 1975 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, education, water supply development, and related
urban investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. The priority of the agricultural sector lhas been further enhanced
by the present world cotimmodity situation. Thus, projects designed to foster
agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs such as
credit for on-farm investments, command area development of existing irriga-
tion schemes, and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's



-7-
program for the next years. Special emphasis will be given to projects bene-
fitting small farmers and landless laborers. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on energy-related projects.
Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority in this context,
and discussions are under way with the Government in an effort to identify
and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate coal production
and coal transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an im-
portant feature in recent years, is expected to occupy an even more prominent
place in the future program; the use of coal-based technology will receive
particular attention.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within the
overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors,
it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion contri-
buted by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70 the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12%
of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and 42%, respec-
tively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected to
continue growing. W4hereas on March 31, 1973, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 21%, by 1979 it is likely
to account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is
predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group
will rise slowly. In 1972/73 about 13% of India's total debt service
payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND WEST BENGAL
25.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages
70% of the labor force, contributes presently about 45% of GNP, and accounts
for a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural sector in
recent years has been to increase the output of foodgrain through increasing



- 8 -
the availability of inputs, including seed, fertilizer, agricultural credit
and irrigation. Even so, due to drought and the lack of fertilizer and
other inputs, India is still not able to produce all the food needed to be
self sufficient and has to import substantial amounts of foodgrains,
resulting in a large drain on foreign exchange reserves. Consequently,
investments to encourage foodgrain production have been given top priority
by the Government, and deserve continued emphasis over the next five years.
26.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged about 3% per annum.   This low overall rate of growth in the
agriculture sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods,
between crops and between regions. The overall rate has been very much
affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972. Never-
theless, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat produced increases
in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and 1971. Other food-
grain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same success,
as the introduction of high yielding varieties has encountered difficulties
arising from local climatic and ecological conditions. The effects of the
green revolution, which primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in
north western India, very largely on account of the advanced state of agri-
culture in that area and the availability of irrigation. It is necessary to
spread this technology to other regions, especially to north eastern India.
The project would contribute to a better regional balance of agricultural
growth by helping to disseminate the new agricultural technology in the
relatively depressed rural areas of West Bengal, and by supporting their
transformation from a subsistence to a more market-oriented economy by
improving the marketing infrastructure and the necessary institutional
mechanisms.
27.       The State of ;Jest Bengal presents a difficult agricultural develop-
ment problem.  It is the fourthi largest state in population with 44 million
people but only the fourteenth in size; thus it is the second most densely
populated State in India witih about 600 persons per square kilometer conmpared
to an all-India average of 182. Despite its relativelv small size, it is
an important contributor to India's agricultural production ranking fourth
among the States in foodgrain production and accounting for 60% of India's
jute and 25% of its tea. Even so, nearly two million tons of grain have to
be imported into the State each year (mainly to feed the 8 million inhqbit--
ants of Calcutta). The production of rainfed crops fluctuates widely
due to erratic rainfall, uncontrolled flooding and occasional cyclones.
28.       There is no cultivable waste land available in West Bengal so that
increased production must be derived from intensified cropping, yet most land
lies fallowv during the dry season for want of irrigation. Farms are small
and fragmented; 86% of lholdings comprising 45% of the cultivable area are
less than 2 ha and each holding on the average is divided into eight fragments.
Forty percent of farm operators are share-croppers and thuere is heavy un-
emplovment and underemployment in the sector. Between 1967 and 1972, grain



- 9 -
production grew at 6% a year, while fertilizer consumption increased at 20%
a year, compared with 13% for all India. This growth coincided with a GOWB
drive to expand minor irrigation and introduce high yielding rice and wheat
varieties. Increased grain production came mainly from irrigated rabi crops,
while rainfed crop production (kharif rice, jute pulses, oilseeds) remained
static. Over the last two years both rainfed and irrigation production has
fallen because of unfavorable weather and power, fertilizer and wheat seed
shortages. Power and fertilizer supplies have improved and GOWB will take
measures to ensure adequate wheat seed supplies in future. Rainfed pro-
duction is likely to remain static for some time and the quickest way to
increase food production is to accelerate exploitation of the ample minor
irrigation potential. Since only a small part of the irrigation potential
has been tapped to date, there is ample potential for further sustained
production growth by expanding irrigation facilities.
29.       This would be the first Bank Group agricultural project in West
Bengal. However, it is similar in many respects to ongoing projects in other
parts of India. These projects include ten in agricultural credit and two
in rural markets development which, together with the proposed credit, would
bring the Association's total lending for these purposes to US$372 million.
The agricultural credit projects are similar in structure to the credit
component of the proposed project; they are designed to provide medium and
long-term credit to farmers for on-farm investment, mainly in minor irriga-
tion and, as in the proposed project, contain special provision for lending
to small farmers. Terms and conditions of on-lending and standards of
performance and viabilitv to be achieved by lending institutions are similar
to the previous projects, as are the technical criteria to be applied to
groundwater exploitation. The current market projects are the prototypes
on which the trial market component of the proposed credit is structured.
In all these credits, the main lending channel and supervisory agencv is
ARC. An ARC credit project, scheduled to be presented to the Executive
Directors on April 15, provides resources to ARC for appraising and financing
minor irrigation and other types of on-farm investment credit schemes with
which ARC has gained experience. However, the present West Bengal project
was initially planned and prepared prior to the ARC project, and contains
several components which would not fall within the purview of that project.
These include financing of farmers' groups for construction of deep tube-
wells, financing wholesale markets and agroservice centers, and financial
assistance for MIC and State Government agencies. For these reasons, the
West Bengal project has been retained as a separate project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       In 1972, the Government of India requested Bank Group assistance
to cover the first phase of a wide-ranging agricultural and rural develop-
ment project in West Bengal concentrated on the development of markets.



- 10 -
Because it was difficult to demonstrate the benefits of such development on
the scale proposed, a modified project was prepared with major emphasis on
minor irrigation, but retaining some market and other rural institutional
development aspects. An appraisal report was prepared on the basis of a
December, 1973 mission but, shortly before scheduled negotiations, GOI
asked on behalf of GOWB that the number of deep tubewells and riverlift
installations be increased. In October, 1974, the earlier appraisal was
reexamined in the light of GOI's request. The mission found that an
expansion of the deep tubewell and river lift irrigation components would
not be justified because of inadequate utilization of the existing 4,000
facilities. GOWB agreed with the mission that in the present project the
emphasis should not be on the construction of new facilities but rather
on the completion of existing schemes and the development of institutions,
especially those providing extension services, to improve returns from minor
irrigation investments.
31.       Negotiations were held in Waslhington from February 12 to February
21, 1975. The Borrower was represented by Messrs. A.K. Dutt, Joint Secretary,
Banking; M.K. Mukharji, Joint Secretary, Rural Development; S.K. Banerjee,
Joint Secretary, Agriculture; and I). Basu, Under Secretary, Department of
Economic Affairs. The State of West Bengal .;as represented by Messrs. B.R.
Gupta, Chief Secretary, K.P.A. Menon, Agricultural I'roduction Commissioner;
and D.M. Mukherji, Chief Engineer, Agriculture; and ARC by Mr. M.A. CGidambaram,
,lanaging Director. A report entitled "Appraisal of West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project" (Report No. 463a-IN dated April 4, 1975) is being
circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A credit and project
summary is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
32.       The project supports a four year agricultural development schieme
in six districts of West Bengal aimed primarily at the development of minor
irrigation1.  The project provides investment credit for construction of
about i,00() shiallow tubewells for farmers and a smaller program of 300
deep tubewells for farmers' cooperatives and the est Bengal Minor Irriga-
tion Corporation (MiIIC). The credit component would also provide finance
for about 200 agro-service centers to improve distribution of inputs and
for the construction of three agricultural wholesale markets. Thie project
would focus on improving capacity utilization of minor irrigation
investments in the state, particularly of state owned river lift and deep
tubewells schemes, by financing the completion of about 600 existing state
facilities and providing equipment, technical assistance and training for
relevant agencies in the state government and for MIC. Financing would also
be provided to assist in the preparation of a second stage project.
33.       The project would be in an area comprising most of the non-saline
alluvial area in the State.   The area was selected because of the ample
availability of water and potential for market development. A major portion
of the credit (about US$15.5 million) would support farmers' investments



- 11 -
in the development of 18,000 shallow tubewells to be powered by either diesel
or electrically operated pumps by making credit facilities available to the
farmers. A smaller portion (about US$5 million) would be on-lent to MIC
for the construction of 100 deep tubewells, to farmers' groups for 200
deep tubewells, to Regulated Market Committees (RMC) for developing 3 markets,
and to private borrowers for developing 200 agro-service centers.
34.       With regard to deep tubewell construction, MIC is still a small
and newly established institution and its work program under the project
would be modest to allow sufficient time for MIC to develop its staff and
program. The main purpose of the 100 deep tubewells to be developed by MIC
would be to deliver irrigation water to the poorest farmers who find it dif-
ficult to obtain institutional credit. The other 200 deep tubewells to be
financed by the project would serve as a trial to see whether irrigation
cooperatives can successfully own and operate the wells. This part of the
project is important because experience elsewhere in India suggests that
state ownership and operation of large numbers of minor irrigation instal-
lations usually becomes unsatisfactory as the scale of operation grows.
Difficulties in collecting water charges create problems for the operating
agency, leading to a decline in the quality of services. Frequently, also,
as is the case in West Bengal today, state tubewells are not fully utilized.
Cooperative ownership may be a better solution. Provisions are being made
under the project to provide the necessary inducements, including a GOWB
capital grant of 50%, to farmers' groups to encourage them to participate in
deep tubewell schemes as such schemes would be new to the state and would
compete with subsidized state owned facilities. Success of this trial should
lay the foundation for a more sound and lasting alternative to the traditional
state tubewell organizations. The total amount of the credit available for
deep tubewells would be about US$3.0 million.
35.       The project also provides for the development of three rural
wholesale markets, each of which would handle a different product mix. The
credit would help finance surveys and land development, access roads, auction
platforms, offices, shops, warehouses, internal roads, parking areas, utilities
equipment and market staff training. Economic evaluation to analyze the
impact of the proposed markets on agricultural development, particularly
on farmers' benefits, and studies to prepare for the establishment of more
markets, would be carried out by a qualified research institute or by con-
sultants. About US$1 million has been provided under the credit to support
the markets development component.
36.       The 200 agro-service centers to be established under the project
would sell inputs, provide custom services and some technical assistance
to farmers in the project area. The West Bengal Agro-Industries Corporation
(AIC) selects and trains unemployed agriculture graduates and helps them
set up these centers by arranging bank loans and acting as a wholesale
supplier of seeds, fertilizer and a range of machinery. The centers would
expand distribution facilities for inputs and improve tubewell maintenance
services. The 250 centers established to date have found demand for their
services to be strong and are proving commercially viable. About US$1
million of the credit would be in support of agro-service centers.



- 12 -
37.       The project would provide funds to GOWB for the completion of some
600 existing river lift and deep tubewells irrigation schemes. There are
presently about 2,000 such schemes in West Bengal, however, only about 800
are working and irrigation coverage is only about 20% of the feasible
command areas. Therefore, instead of financing any new state river lift
and deep tubewell schemes under the project, attention would be focussed
on completing existing ones and improving their efficiency and coverage.
Six hundred represents an estimate of the number of river lift and deep
tubewell schemes which GOWB could complete over the project period. About
US$9.1 million of the credit amount would be for completion of existing
schemes.
38.       Assistance would be provided to the Engineering Directorate of the
Department of Agriculture to finance improvements for six district workshops
and to obtain vehicles and equipment for mobile workshops to ensure good
maintenance and speedy repairs for tubewells and river lifts. SWB would
receive assistance for financing groundwater equipment, consultants to advise
in long range water exploration and planning, and further training for some
key staff. The credit would provide about US$2.0 million for these purposes.
39.       To improve water utilization, tne agricultural extension services
in the project area would be reorganized and additional extension workers,
transport, equipment, staff training, and materials for field demonstrations
would be provided. The amount of the credit allocated for improvement of
agricultural extension services is about US$2.4 million.
Project Implementation
40.       Project management would be in the hands of a sub-committee of
the State Level Coordinating Committee. The sub-committee would keep
under continuous review the overall progress of the project and recommend
measures for the elimination of deficiencies and for effecting improvements.
In addition to representatives from relevant state agencies, the sub-
committee would also include a representative from ARC and from the
Agriculture Credit Department of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). See
Section 2.04 of the West Bengal Agreement.
41.       About sixty percent of the proceeds of the credit would be onlent
by ARC to banks for financing loans to farmers for shallow tubewells, to MIC
and farmers' groups for deep tubewells, to individuals for the establishment
of agro-service centers and to RMCs for the construction of wholesale agri-
cultural markets.   In addition to being the channel for the credit component,
ARC would supervise credit operations as it already does for the 12 on-
going IDA assisted credit and market projects in India. There is a well
developed commercial banking network in the State which has experience
ith agricultural lending, through which at least 70% of the lending under
the project will be made. By contrast, the LDB is one of the least devel-
oped in India and some rehabilitation and strengthening will be necessary
before it can carry a significant part of the lending. A plan to improve
LDB as well as to expand rural banking activities in West Bengal generally
has been prepared by ARC and the State Government in consultation with the
Association.



- 13 -
42.       MIC is a recently created State Government owned Corporation
staffed by transfers from the Department of Agriculture. Its main purpose
is eventually to take over, operate and maintain the 2,000 existing State
owned deep tubewells and 2,000 river lifts and to continue to implement
the State Government's program of deep well and river lift construction.
However, under the project, MIC's responsibilities would be limited to
supervising construction of the 300 deep tubewells, of which it would own
and operate 100. MIC requires time to gain experience and develop its staff
and program. To ensure that MIC can implement its part of the project, a
work program, staffing plan and financing plan acceptable to IDA would be
prepared by MIC as a condition of disbursement under the relevant category.
See Section 2.04 of the West Bengal Agreement.
43.       All investments in tubewells and lift irrigation under the project
would be in accordance withi technical criteria established by SWB. See
Section 2.04c of the Project Agreement, Section 2.09 of the West Bengal
Agreement, and Schedule 1.4(b) of the Development Credit Agreement. The
SWB was formed last year by the transfer to it of the staff of the Ground-
water and Surface Water Investigation Unit of the Agricultural Department.
Its functions are to assess surface water resources, to collect and interpret
groundwater data, to conduct groundwater studies and to advise the State Gov-
ernment on the nature and limits of minor irrigation development. ilowever,
its Board has not met since its establishment and its activities have been
hampered by lack of a full-time executive chairman. A suitably qualified
full time executive chairman has now been appointed and technical staff
seconded from the Engineering Directorate of the Department of Agriculture.
SWB staffing is now satisfactory to begin project implementation.
44.       West Bengal has the potential for a substantial increase in minor
irrigation development. Even with the addition of the wells contemplated
under the proposed project, it is estimated that only half of the conserva-
tively calculated recharge of groundwater in the project area would be
extracted. The project would provide for disciplined exploitation by con-
trolling the spacing of individual wells.   See Section 2.Ohc and Schedule 2
of the Project Agreement.
45.       Funds available to the West Bengal State Electricity Board (SEB)
from the Rural Electrification Corporation of India (REC) would meet about
30% of the cost of connecting tubewells to the rural transmission network.
To ensure prompt connection of wells, the project would finance the balance.
Connection costs would form part of the loan to farmers for tubewells. The
SLB would, however, repay capital and interest on the portion of the loan
for connection charges, in excess of a small non returnable deposit payable
by applicants for power. To ensure adequate technical and financial cri-
teria for this project component, GOWB agreed to make arrangements, satis-
factory to IDA, for appraising electrical connection schemes for project
tubewells. See Section 2.14 of the West Bengal Agreement. Additionally,
financial losses, common with rural electrification schemes in India, en-
danger essential investment programs of electricity boards. In this con-
nection, GOWB had agreed, under the Second Power Tranmission Credit (242-IN



- 14 -
dated May 3, 1971), on specified rate of return targets for the SEB; 8.5%
by 1973 and 9.5% from 1975 onward. The target was met in 1973; however,
since that time performance has declined, due largely to the burden of
rural electrification operations. To avoid this problem, GOWB would, to
the extent that the SEB fails to achieve agreed rates of return, provide
tne SEB with annual funds to cover the operating deficit of rural elec-
trification schemes in the project area. See Section 2.14 of the West
Bengal Agreement.
46.       Until 1972, markets in West Bengal were administered by the State
Department of Agriculture. However, the Agricultural Produce Marketing
(Regulation) Act enacted in 1972 provided for the establishment of RK-Cs and
the West Bengal State Marketing Board (SMB). The legislation also provides
for licensing of traders and levying of market charges. The State Govern-
ment's responsibility is now only supervisory. Under the project, the
establishment of markets would be in accordance with the Act. It would
be a condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the credit allocated to
market development that SMB had been suitably established. See Schedule
1.4d of the Development Credit Agreement. RICs would be appointed by the
State Goven ment to operate the markets to be financed under the project.
Project Cost and Financing
47.        The total project cost is US$67 million equivalent, including
duties and taxes, of which the foreign exchange component is about US$7.3
million. A detailed breakdown of the cost components is at Annex III.
48.        The proposed IDA credit of US$34 million would cover the foreign
exchange cost and 40% of the local cost; a total of about 51% of total
project cost.   The remaining 49% would be financed by State Government and
ARC (38%), participating banks (7%) and individual borrowers (4%). IDA
funds of US$13.0 million would be channeled through the Government of India
to the State Government of West Bengal for completion of river lift schemes,
maintenance equipment for Department of Agriculture and MIC, groundwater ex-
ploration equipment and training for S14B, consultant's services for further
project preparation, and improvement of state extension services. The Gov-
ernment of India would on-lend these funds to the State according to estab-
lished policy on terms prevailing at the time.
49.        For shallow tubewells, deep tubewells, market development and
agro-service centers, the Government of India would make IDA proceeds of
US$21 million available to ARC repayable partly over 9 and partly 15 years
at interest rates of 6.5% and 7.0% respectively. The Government of India
would bear the exchange risk. ARC would on-lend the funds to LDB and
participating commercial banks at an annual interest rate of not less
than 7.5%. The banks, in turn would lend to individual farmers, MIC,
RIUCs and agro-service centers operators, at a minimum annual interest
rate of 10.5% for minor irrigation and 11% for other types of investment
for periods up to 15 years. The ultimate interest rate is in line with



- 15 -
prevailing interest rates and the spread reasonable in relation to the risk
element invoived and the cost of appraisal and supervision of individual
loans. Small farmers would qualify for preferential borrowing terms pro-
vided that their anticipated income was adequate to repay the loan over a
prescribed period. The project would introduce a definition of small
farmer based upon predevelopmental income. A farm family earning Rs 2000
or less per year (or about US$50 per capita) would be entitled to partici-
pate in the project under less rigid terms for down payment and repayment
period. It would be a condition of effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government of India and ARC, satisfactory to the
Association, had been executed. See Section 5.01c of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Execution of the shallow tubewell program would involve small
investments of about Rs 8,000 (US$1,000) and operations on many individual
farms over a period of four years. Since it would not be practicable to
procure such requirements centrally and since an adequate choice of pumpsets
is locally available at competitive prices, procurement would be by the
borrower through normal commercial channels as is the case with all other
current IDA credit projects in India involving minor irrigation. Similarly,
each agro-service center would require a package of varying equipment approved
by tne lending banks and based on the needs of the specific area in which the
owner intended operating his business. Centralized procurement would not be
possible and procurement would, therefore, be done by the borrower through
normal trade channels.
51.       Construction of deep tubewells would be dependent on the number
of irrigation cooperatives formed and the uncertain timing of their estab-
lishment. The annual program would be small and scattered and would not
be suitable for international competitive bidding. Drilling, procurement
of equipment and construction of minor civil works would, therefore, be
subject to local competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory. There are numerous competent
local contractors already prequalified by the State Government and the
adequacy of local equipment has been amply demonstrated. Completion of
river lift schemes would also consist of minor civil works spread over a
wide area over several years and would also be subject to local competitive
bidding.
52.       About 80 motor vehicles of various types would be required.    They
would be purchased in small quantities over four years. It would be difficult
to ensure adequate maintenance and spares for a small number and a variety
of imported vehicles. Scientific equipment and maintenance equipment for
SWB and MIC would involve many small contracts, sometimes from few suppliers
for specialized items. It would not, therefore, be practical to procure
these items under international competitive bidding procedures. They would
be obtained under the State Government's normal procurement procedures which
are satisfactory, utilizing local competitive bidding wherever possible.



- 16 -
53.       The development of each market would be the responsibility of
the R"C concerned. The markets would differ in size, commodities handled
and timing of construction. The works involved, consisting of simple brick
and concrete structures and minor earthworks, are not suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding and would be let on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding. RMCs would be responsible for preparation of tender documents,
detailed drawings and specifications and for supervising construction with
the guidance and assistance of the State Government. Plans, drawings and
contracts would be subject to SMB approval.
54.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed at the rate of 55%
against ARC's refinance of loans for minor irrigation, agro-service centers
and markets; against 55% of local equipment, civil works and extension
service improvements and against 100% of imported equipment and technical
assistance costs. The credit is expected to be disbursed over four years.
Economic and Financial Benefits
55.       The main benefit to the Indian economy would be the annual incre-
mental production of about 310,000 tons of foodgrain per year, worth Rs 400
million (US$50 million) at 1980 projected grain prices, coming mainly from
land at present fallow during the dry season. This would help GOI and GOWB
achieve their target of food self-sufficiency, and represent a sizeable
saving of foreign exchange for food imports. Reliable irrigation in the
most favorable cropping season would assure a high level of crop production
every year, and would decrease year-to-year grain supply fluctuations. The
project's impact on employment would be particularly important to West Bengal,
which is plagued by overpopulation and unemployment. The incremental farm
labor requirement of the project would be about 100,000 man-years. Most of
this labor would be needed during the dry season which includes tthe montlis
of labor surplus in rural areas, since without irrigation most land other-
wise remains fallow.
56.       Since the project would involve mainly small farmers, its benefits
would be widely distributed. Shallow tubewells would be mainly owned by
farmers wit;i holdings around 2 ha, but because of land fragmentation these
farmers would need to sell water to neighbors to supply water to their own
fragments. In addition, it is expected that many wells would be operated
by farmer groups, a type of operation gaining acceptance in West Bengal.
Tne main beneficiaries from deep tubewells and river lift schemes would be
the poorest farmers (including sharecroppers), since 80% of farmers in
existing schemes irrigate less than 0.5 ha each.
57.       The estimated economic rates of return range from 33% from a deep
tubewell on loam soil to over 50% for most of the other types of investments.
Th1e sensitivity of the rates of return to each of the major parameters used
in estimating them has been tested and shows the following pattern:    a 15%
reduction in gross product value (resulting from either lower prices or
vields or both) would lower the returns from the various investments to the
range of 21% to 51%; a 15% increase in recurrent costs would lower the re-
turns to the range of 25% to over 50%; finally, a yield decline due to a



- 17 -
reduction in fertilizer use by one-third would lower the returns to the
range of 23% to over 50%.
58.       A number of important benefits are expected from markets develop-
ment, principally from improved facilities to handle the expected larger
volume of produce, from reduction in high transport costs as a result of
faster truck turn round, and from a reduction in product losses from in-
adequate storage facilities. The economic rate of return for this com-
ponent has been estimated at 12%.
59.       Non-quantifiable benefits include the strengthening of the credit
system in the project area, the contribution the project should make to
water resource management and the potential benefits to be derived from the
experimental irrigation cooperatives component for promoting a more effective
organization for large-scale minor irrigation development.
PAKr V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and thc
International Development Association, the draft West Bengal Agreement
between the State of West Bengal and the Association, the draft Project
Agreement between the Association and ARC and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
61.       Features of the draft Agreements of special interest are referred
to in paragraplhs 40 through 49 of this report.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 10, 1975



D0900R! DATA - il.'l/A                          Page 1
AREA                                           POPULATION                              IZEsin
3 ,2e0,L&7E23.0milo                                           (mid-1973)
- ~P.e balf arbi  .ln
SOCLAL fl(ItCATDRS
Iisfe-nn  Cooniris
ON? MR CAPITA US3 (ATLAS BASIS) a                           .1101                                   noL.  21   ,6CC 
PIEDOMAP'tlC
OroM  bith eats (par stot.i.a.d)                          31 /i        385  A         1            IIA       1.~
Odm dth Tit    petosn)                                   13           16 /o.d       19I a        7   4     11.0   1
nmt mortwiyIrts(Pine t-ouao II.. binth.)                139 5    12-LO c            .                      13.1
LiE spotao-y at birth (pers ...                         Li           12h           ..7 
Grss-pnduotis 0005 Z2                                 2.7 ,.J      2.9            ?22          . 
Popalatton growth eats 22.3                                     2      .3    ~       1.C 1                    u.S
AC. -_ (P.--)~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              0S
Psnmio    rut   as     rs                                562                           __       5
65 and 00c                                                            57               7
Age dsp-dr-oy r-i.                                       02           8                   o1326
fon_omIn deted_7o c-sio /4                               1.0           1.7            1.          1.          79
Urban population as P-roe  of ital                         8 1         20 /.hk        17a         32 /c n      -
FsailY piacioig, N. of aoeoptoe  ouat-    (thoe        100           .17                          9
No. of u..ses (8 nf mar,ind onsn
fRt  orofs (thousands)                           159,070O '~  22110( /d.o     L1.100 2,.   3,2(0 0.    5,7C1.10
Pmowouagw ..PI.oped in agitultor                       273           71 10..d       621         56Ia          3
P.rostag  uoeplo)ed                                                                  27 /O212               1.
Pron     fii6a    mo..  es"'" '  onind byhighest 5%      227I         25 I-,        .            25 IL        1
Pseosot of naioni .Ine   resnetnd b'y highest 20%         52 Li        5   rs51o                               39 
Perosni of notituou  mooe r.eoised by 1eset 20%            L                                       L6 Zi -         ?
Pseosni of natino.. Iieono  coosisd by looset 40%         it   ~       13 Loa12                                19
DISREWIO8 OP. LARD 04MRSHIf
N nod by topt 10%o ofe-em
REALTH ASS NUTRITnON
Fbpulatiio  peerys, a                                  5,800 1      2800          27,650        9,00         uP
PNoulIiton p-e cocetg person                           5,1.0 1      5,110          9,:01"      5:,390        311 I
Population pet hospital bad                            2,600        1,620 LEA      1,721         550 Q        1 fl L'
Per.o.Pita o-iorn supply ms I o surmntm                   95           89             93          85          i's
Per  aPit. Protic SUpply, toa  grams peday)    6          55           53              3          25          993
Of whic.h, aoial and puls                               19     ~     16 /ab         13. d       22           53
Death rats i-i Soars /7                                   a            .-.2I                                 07I
AduTMd /8 PrinerY school snrolim t ratio                 (.279 18                      1         112 00 ad    LI C
Adjust.d 7! seonodey soboo  s        -olstrtio           18I2             Rs027                       lj~     7
Tsar. of -ohooliog proet.dsd  first aod m-obd lssi        1            28             12          17          13
Vooaiooa s-eol.eet me % of ....c. hoeel anolmi            26I' /a!                   20          1   606
Adult liusrary ratn %                                     221z         36 ?70.ot      56A7.o       2 1 .aLd-  9' I
Anm..gs No. of persn  Pee con (urban)                    2.6 L-j~     2.8 s/t.        .          -           ct ' o
Psosa  foonidtui      .ithoot piped -oatr              I..                          .6               d a
An=os to sleotriotty law 8 of itow Ppoputioo             -            -              -            23 a a'
P-enst of fura popuaetice  -nosted to s1.ctricity        --,.6                                         d jjjj
MRadi    Jsse- Per 1020 pupulatina                                      23Io          Il            61        67221
Pssnssgs eoar Per ibi) Ppopltitwe                        41 /.                           a           s       231 
so.etrio tPu-eoossu      (k5.5 p-c)                       (.                                     255 !     2725
Esseprict coosooptioc P.O. kg pee year0.2                 Li           -.24        1.87 Ls.. 21.0
Noirs  PIgues refrJithe    to thr ioisst periods I to         nono    fsersato       mpcaus      oy wih       n
th. latssi yeers. ltspeisrfe         0poiie                   dietribotion by aemdmaof mationl ppltos
the Y-er 1956-60 or 1966-70; thu latest years Jo pria-    Pj trso tadrs(rqisi) for al n-utries - sAtab-
oipis to 1960 sod 1970.                                        Moahe  by USOD iwonanlo sRoaroi Sec-rio, prosids for m olifo
A   The P.r Copita GNP -stiate i, at -knt prio- for           allown-  of 60 gees of ita)1 protsn per day, nAM DO g-mm  of
Ye--arsote  than 15010, onloulotd by thm -ma  n-crno       animal and puls  protein, of which 17 groa should be mrisa
L itobhlqunas thn 1922 Wo-i d baudk Atlas                   pr        Th_ ms stndrd  are sosot lose unotboss of 75
P A-rrg oohrof d-ught-r per onoo of ruprodutine               ga- of total protein aod 23 gram  of animal prntio as n
ugs... a-rge for the -1rd, proposa by PAO in th. Third World Food
flPbpolntl-on  - geo t..ie  or for ton dr-dee ending Jo     Gunny
i960 and 1970.                                        /7Some studien bass egg.stad that -rdm dsath ratem of hbildrs
A    ai   fpupuitin     odnr iS and 65 and ocr to pept.a-     Ige     hrog         eaa    safriapoiainldno
tito  of ages 15-62 for age depod-y ratio and to labore     lni-iic
5fores of ogee: i5-6L for -o-ott  dspsodsoy ratio.       /8  P:-nantog  soroi1ld of oorrasnoiig popua.tlo of mrhool age
F hDreO    ro  otodand  reprueot psiolJgiosl __              am dl toad for -.oh woutry.
qulea.ots for -or-l uotirity ond health, taking
1922;12    stansooD ae"ge fo          963-62 boned on rnsults of tbs national .anpi. eu_enp  In  D99f;  05 Ostinol;
Is  95-70  ~    973;_~1' sI.aindfaooua     --crgs7 fo  9i51-61 hassd on malyols of dro...olal       /hnus; 1k95-0
~  Ratn i notbout based 00 birtho obtaied by appliontion of tmme--ms s'i ol5mtood to reetite of 1951 and 1961
os-t-e;    12 1960-22;   1k Por te definition of urban em                                        /1p~jeMol  .11   fl "laolopoitilrc
reg-Y oupioLeI sod other pi.oe olth urboooastrsis         ncum       etIn FI          or the dfinto     ftra
n Un  i lnoncoanbl Yeorboob 1923. P. ill;  A  Are ei1nmifiad me urban for lana  goo-rexot  dtor iit,i.e. of -ty
borouhs, tulopal boroughs and urban diatnoto;    Is 1962;   1p    1oobudes all indiridole iP 'partloipi in. o_
ty'poofJeool    -otioity;  /1 AIl netiante of labor foro  to age groo  15-59. DIERD report gJres afigure of 180.6,
ollio Iaec..d "nthe 1921 popula.tbun -50 . Th. diffnreoon  is doe to ohog.m Iin ht dwfiitioo of a woker  In lbs
1971 -oost   -, pros nere olo...ified oniy 00 the basis of tibni noi.  niii  Thin lcd to tbhrouso    of o--re
ontego-Ics, -.thanh.....ui-s;       ibHous.bolde;  /. 1967-68;  It 1968;  /. 1962;   Ili Perooo1 to gousroret
esroto-  oily;  1   1957;  Is  1969;  It 1ooludig rura ioopitals;     It1 Gn-nI-,et hospital estabiehowots o.,Y;
IR.16-62;  /22 1969-70;   L.. letisatr  hioh tololdne -.Mg. studets;    ld 1961;    /ee  NLo tooludi.g o--tioroal
short-irre osuc.n.c;  -  29,55;  L.A  1961;  Zakh PopuIloiio of 10 ynrs and oIer bae  on.oo peroat ... pln data
o191 1115 Yenrs sod over;  131  ati refer to ho....iolds;  Isk  D." booe d o  -anpie tabuAtion ofcooe
Dene  a. Ont  nf-r to hou..oholds in oo-ntiuo..l ducIitgs;  Ia  1oporo oily;  La  00ltno   arpltisot
line and populatIon rake l~oooeslo a -1-rcan  rooro   outy    (tg, I is to tooer P    onplta i.oo..r grou  blo
Iodie.
0Th. loited Kiogdoo h.. bcoo sciectod b-cuum  of tbo inp-t-Lo ric uf public -cotor noyiwnad the highly
drrlP'. syi     of -uo-o orioo
83 Ap,11 7. 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2
ECONOMIC DEVELOF?,ENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972 J    US 8 t10
GROSS NATIONAL PRODIUCT IN 1972/73  /                                ANNIUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Bln.      %                    1961/62-1965/66   1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1972/73
GNP at ,!arket Prices              57.7       100.0                        3.1               4.3                1.0
Gross Domestic Investment           9.7        16.8
Gross National Saving               9.2        15.9
Current Accoimt Balance            -0.5        -0.9
Resource Gap                       -0.2        -0.3
OUPTUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)        Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US S Bln.           _    _          ],lin.  -A         US $ 4 of National Average
Agriculture                         23.1                 44.8         130.0  72.0         178             62
Industry                            15.6                30.2           24.6  13.7         634           222
Services                            12.8                25.0         _258    14.3         496           174
Total/average                       51.5               100.0          180.4 100.0         285           100
GOVERNMIENT FINANCE 
General Government                       Central Government
(Rs. Bln)         4 of GDP                 (Rs. Bln)          % of GDP
1973F74      1973/74  1971/72-1973/74      1973/74      19-73/74  1971/72-1973/74
Current Receipts                88.11        15.2          15.8            50.59        6.7            9.2
Current Expenditures            88.89                     16.0             49.11        8-4           91
Current Surplus/Deficit         -0.78        -0.1         -0.2              1.48        0.3           0.1
Capital Expenditures -S         27.70         4.8           5.2            20.99        3.6           3.9
External Assistance (net)        3.93         0.7          0.8              3.93        0.7           0.8
MONEY, CREDIT A.ND PRICES          196566    1969/70  1970/71    1971/72   1972/73   1973/74  September 1973   September 1974
Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and 4uasi Money               61.4      93.3      105.7     122.4     142.4     168.8        155.1         177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector        40.8      52.4      56.9       69.0      82.5      93.5        91.2          102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector       28.1       48.3      56.7      64.4      76.0      85.6         79.3          90.5
(Percentage or Index Niumbers)                January 1974    January 1975
Money and 'Q-uasi Rscisy as I of GDP  24.0    23.6       24.3      26.3      27.9      26.8
'Wholesale Price In-ex
(1961/62 = 100)                 131.6     171.6     181.1      188.4     207.1     254.0       271.2          315.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7       3.8        5.5       4.0       9.9      22.7                       16.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector        12.9       1.5       8.6       21.3      19.6      13.3                       10.6i
Bank Credit to Private Sector       12.8      15.1       17.4      13.6      18.0      12.6                       ,    Ji
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 World Atlas.   All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailirg
during the period covered.
m/ Estimates.
c/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
d  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
v   Credit to -overnment.
f/ Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page j
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS         1271172   1972/73   1973/74    1974/75.W      I MRCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971/72-1973/74)
Million   US  S    )                                        US MTln.
Exports of Goods             2,1560    2,558     3,137     3,900          Jute Manufacturers       324          12
Imports of Goods            -2,572    -2,682    -3,952    -5,775         Tea                       195          7
Trade Balance               -  412    -  124    -  765    -1,875          Cotton Textiles          241           9
NFS (net)                   -   48    -  146      n.a.      n.a.          Iron Ore                 151           6
Resource Gap                -  460    -  270      n.a.      n.a.          Engineering Goods        193           7
Others                  1,521         5
Interest Payments (net)     -  230    -  237      n.a.      n.a.          Total                  2,625         100
Other Factor Payments(net) -     7    -    8      n.a.       n.a.
Net Transfers                  358    -   50      n.a.       n.a.
Balance on Current Account    -339      -565      n.a.      n.a.          EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1974
US $ Ann.
Official Aid
Disbursements            1,203.      955     1,249h   1,860           Repayable in foreign currency       11,612
Amortization             -385       -408      -692-    -750          Repayable through export of goods      784
Transactions with IMF           -         -         75       515          Total Outstanding and Disbursed     12,396
All Other Items               -254        52       239      150
Increase in Reserves (-)      -225       -34      -106       100          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974/75      19.0  percent
Gross Reserves (end year)    1,277     1,311      1,417    1*317
Net Reserves (end year)      1,277     1,311      1,342      709          IBRD/IDA LENDING, AUGUST 31, 1974   (US S Mln.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                             IBRD      IDA
Imports                        262       265       719     1,375          Outstanding and Disbursed    457     2,068
of which: Petroleum          261       265       719    1,375           Undisbursed                   79       938
Exports                         11        41        20     n.a.           Outstanding including        536     3,oo6
of which: Petroleum            9        37        16     n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE S
Prior to mid-December 1971   : US B 1.00 = Rs 7.5                         After end June 1972  : Floating Rate
Rs   1.00 = US 8 0.133333
Spot Rate March 31, 1975:
Mid-December 1971 to         : US 8 1.00 = Rs 7.27927                                   approx. USS 1.00 = Rs   7.72
end June 1972               Rs    1.00 = USSO.137376                                 approx. Rs  1.00 = US$ 0.1295
./ Estimated.
h/ Includes interest and hence is equal to debt service.
i/ Net of IMF drawings outstanding as of end December 1974.
4 Amortization and interest payments (B 750 million) as a
percentage of merchandise exports.
k/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange
rates and INF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside
front cover of this report or in notes to individual table.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS Oi BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT Oq BANK LOANS AiTh IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1975)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                       1,032.5  1,648.9
30 Credits fully disbursed
614-IN       1969   India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0       -        7.4
176-IN       1970   Indiia   Kadena Irrigation                       -      35-0       5.3
1S1-IN       1970   India    Gujarat Agricultural Credit             -      35.0       0.4
203-IN       1970   India    Purijab Agricultural Credit             -      27.5      25.5
226UIN       1971   India    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -      24.4       5.8
241-IN       1971   India    Telecormmunications IV                  -      78.0      10.1
242-IN       1971   India    Power Transmission II                   -      75.0      62.3
249-IN       1971   India    Haryana Agricultural Credit             -      25.0      14.4
250-IN       1971   India    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit          -      35.0      10.0
26h4IN       1971   India    Cochin II Fertilizer                    -      20.0       7.0
267-IN       1971   India    Wheat Storage                           _       5.0
268-IN       1971   India    Pochampad Irrigation                    -      39.0       7.5
789-IN       1971   ICICI    Industry DFC IX                      60.0        -        8.4
278-IN       1972   India    Mysore Agricultural Credit              -      40.0      25.5
279-IN       1972   India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion          -      10.0       2.0
293-IN       1972   India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit         -      30.0       9.6
294-IN       1972   India    Bihar Agricultural Markets              -      14.0      14.0
312-IN       1972   India    Population                              -      21.2      18.4
342-IN       1972   India    Education Project                       -      12.0      12.0
356-IN       1972   India    IDBI                                    -      25.0      24.5
357-IN       1973   India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion             -      58.0      42.2
377-IN       1973   India    Power Transmission III                  -      85.0      85.0
378-IN       1973   India    Mysore Agricultural Markets             -       8.o       8.o
902-IN       1973   ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0       -       45.8
390-IN       1973   India    Bombay Water Supply                     -      55.0      53.9
391-IN       1973   India    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -      33.0      26.1
392-IN       1973   India    UP Agricultural Credit                  -      38.0      31.3
403-Ti       1973   India    Telecommunications V                    -      80.0      80.0
427-LT       1973   India     Calcutta Urban Development             -      35.0      32.3
44)-Li      1973   India    Bihar Agricultural Credit               -      32.0      28.7
448-IN       1973   India    Railways XII                            -      80.0      22.7
450-Ii       1974   India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing         -      13.0      13.0
481-IN       1974   India    Trombay IV                              -      50.0      48.6
1011-IN       1974   India     Chaabal (R)                          52,0       -       49.0
482-IN       1974   India    Karnataka Dairy                         -      30.0      30.0
502-IN       1974   India    Rajasthan Canal (CAD)                   -      83.0      68.7
520-IN       1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer                       -      91.0*     91.0
521-IN       1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy                         -      27.7*     27.7
522-IN       1974   India    Madbya Pradesh Dairy                    -      16.4*     16-4
526-IN       1975   India    Drought Prone Area                      -      35.0*     35.0
1079-IN       1975   India    IFFCO Fertilizer                     109.0*     -       109.0
528-IN       1975   India    Industrial Imports I                    -     100.0*    100.0
Total                                                           1,336.5  3,150.1
of which has been repaid                                    668.5     10.0
Total now outstanding                                             608.0  3,140.1
Amount sold                            111.5
of which has been repaid          111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   668.0   3,140.1
Total undiBbursed (including*)!/                                  219.6 1,099.0    1,318.6
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
P.S.  Excluding 230-IN Which was cancelled.



ANNEX II
Page   2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1975)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                 Company                        Loan       Equity       Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.          1.5         -           1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.          0.9          -           0.9
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd                1.4         -           1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                   0.2          -           0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.       0.7         0.3          1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.        0.8         0.4          1.2
1964-75       * Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.       11.8        1.0         12.8
1964           Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0        0.3          1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.              1.0        0.1          I.,
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.               8.6        2.9         11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.           15.1        3.8         18.9
TOTAL                          43.0        8.8         51.8
Less:      Sold                      6.0         1.6         7.6
Repaid                    8.0          -           8.0
Cancelled                 6.2         0.1          6.3
Now held                 22.8         7.1         29.9
Undisbursed                -          0.6          0.6
1975 commitment of $9.5 million has been approved by the Board but is
not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page   3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was $368 million in FY74 or 83% of
Bank Group commitments in that year.   The undisbursed pipeline of $1,319
million as of February 28, 1975, corresponds roughly to commitments over
the preceding 24-month period and reflects the lead time which would be
expected given the mix of fast and slow disbursing projects in the India
program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan789-IN is fully committed;
and disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614     Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1974
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Implementation problems
over processing plant construction and land-leveling have been resolved
although, as a result of these delays, an extension of the closing date
by two years has been necessary.   Expansion of an existing processing plant
has been completed and expansion of another existing plant is in progress.
Orders are about to be placed for construction and equipment of a new plant
and for a controlled-environment store.
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam.
The project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drain-
age works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction.  The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation have occurred at the
start of the project before major investments have been made. These will
not affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government has
recently intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials
available. Progress is now satisfactory.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.
Until mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with
construction and credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute
shortages of construction materials, especially explosives for the canal
excavation, have hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main
canals wras now falling about one year behind schedule. This is likely to
delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Land
development is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project.   Government is aware of the inadequacy of the
credit operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for
a Command Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. Construction of the dam, which
was also affected by temporary shortages of building materials, is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of Marchl     1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit has been signed on March 7, 1975, and conditions of
effectiveness will have to be fulfilled by July 7, 1975.
Cr. No. 191    Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit of
June 3, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
Credit of January 8, 1971; Closing Date;   June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Closing Date: October 31, 1975
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million.
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization equipment
only, all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long- and
medium-term credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm
investments as imported tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Dis-
bursement of these credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation
components were concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institu-
tional requirements, in particular the introduction of changes in lending
criteria and lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible
for assessing groundwater availability. These constraints have been over-
come and disbursements are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed
following changes in both the supply and demand situations after the proj-
ects were originally appraised which prompted GOI to request that indigenc's,
as well as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these
credits. The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and
those credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly.
Tractor procurement is now in progress. Some funds earmarked for land level-
ling and tractors have been reallocated to minor irrigation components.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and
10 silos (200,000 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study.
Warehouse construction is about 75% complete. The Government Food Ministry
has selected a local research institute to conduct the study. Administra-
tive problems, substantial cost increases, and technical difficulties in
the selection of silo sites have hampered the execution of the silo com-
ponent. A supervision mission has recently assessed the situation and has
recommended a restructuring of the silo component to enable it to be com-
pleted within the financing plan. Tendering for silo oundations has been
initiated.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 456   Ilimachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple proc-
essing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage,
juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project entity, the H.P.
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC) has been
established and key senior staff recruited, including the Managing Director.
Feasibility studies have begun for cold storage and the juice concentrate
plant. Project training is expected to begin soon.
Cr. No. 241    Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in
material supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local
supply were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers
and imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated lead time required.
The closing date of Telecommunications IV was therefore postponed by six
months to June 30, 1975. Revised disbursement schedules for these two
credits are now expected to be met.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. For Power Trans-
mission III, specification and tendering procedures are progressing.
Tenders received so far indicate substantial cost overruns.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer; US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer; US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; U1S$58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion; US$50.0 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the ex-
pansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is now
proceeding about 24 months behind schedule mainly because of procurement de-
lays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and cement. Pro-
curement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the equipment
is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which has
contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commissioning
of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of man-
agement attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The engineering design for the Gorakhpur
project is well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been ordered.
Although delivery of some equipment is taking longer than forecast during
appraisal, the project is progressing without serious difficulties. Engi-
neering work, procurement and site construction for the Nangal Fertilizer
Project are proceeding satisfactorily. Progress on the Trombay IV project
has been good although project completion may be delayed by about four
months because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment.  The Sindri Credit became effective on February 27, 1975.    Engineer-
ing design and procurement preparations are proceeding on schedule. The
IFFCO loan was signed on January 24, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness
have to be met by March 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 448     Railway XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian
Railwavs investment program. Disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka lTiolesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0
million credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale mark-ets in a number of towns in Bihar and KarnataKa.   Progress under the
projects has generallv been satisfactory. Markets construction in Bihar was
delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acquisition of
land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satisfactorily
resolved. Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 312    Population; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Project
implementation is gaining momentum; the construction program is well
under way, and all key project staff have been appointed.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress of implementation has improved with the selection of
campus planners/executive architects, project architects and specialist
advisers.  Contract negotiations for these personnel are presently in
progress and appointments are expected to be made shortly. University
development plans and fellowship programs have been submitted to the
Association and are under review. Equipment lists are still being
prepared.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
The last review mission reported in May 1974 that satisfactory progress
could be expected soon. As of February 28, 1975, commitments for sub-
projects reached $4.7 million and disbursements have begun.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project implementation is about 24 months behind schedule because
of delays in appointing consultants and the redesign of major contracts by
a year. Disbursements have been delayed for the same reason, but several
large contracts are now being let, and the disbursement rate should then
improve.
Cr. No. 474    Ninth Industrial Imports Project; US$150.0 million credit of
May 29, 1974; Closing Date: November 30, 1975
Cr. No. 528    Tenth Industrial Imports Program; US$200.0 million credit of
February 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The ninth credit was declared effective on June 24, 1974. It is
now fully disbursed. The tenth credit was signed on February 14, 1975 for
the initial tranche of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on
March 7, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness were fulfilled by March 31, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 427     Calcutta tUrban Development Project; TTS$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum redevelopment proposal and a site
and services scheme. This portion became effective on July 15, 1974. As of
January 31, 1975, US$1.9 million had been disbursed under the credit, mainly
for civil works.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development; US$30 million credit of June 19,
1974; Closing Date:   September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521     Rajasthan Dairy Development project; USS27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project:    US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Credit became effective
on December 23, 1974. The Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC)
has been established, and senior management staff appointed. Some progress
has been made in planning and training of specialized teams and in preparing
a banking plan, but the project is about 4 months behind schedule at this
early stage largely due to insufficient staffing of the KDDC, which is
responsible for project implementation. Conditions of effectiveness for
the Rajasthan Credit have to be fulfilled by May 15, 1975 and for the Madhya
Pradesh Credit by April 15, 1975.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project:
US$52 million loan of June 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502     Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 million
credit of July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan and this credit became effective on December 12, 1974.
By Februarv 28, 1975, disbursements - mainly for fertilizer - reached $3.0
million for the Chambal and $14.3 million for the Rajasthan Canal project.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:                 The State of West Bengal for completion of
river lift and deep tubewell schemes and
for technical assistance and equipment;
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC),
the State Cooperative Land Development Bank
(LDB) and participating commercial banks
for on-lending to ultimate borrowers.
Amount:                        US$34.0 million.
Terms:                         Standard.
Relending Terms:               From India to ARC:   For loans to be repaid
9 years from withdrawal 6.5% per annum
minimum; and for loans to be repaid 15 years
from withdrawal 7.0% per annum minimum.
From ARC to LDB and participating commercial
banks: 7.5% per annum with repayments set to
coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of loans granted to farmers
and other ultimate beneficiaries. Loans to
ultimate borrowers would be at a minimum annual
interest rate of 10.5% for minor irrigation and
11% for other investments with maximum repayment
periods varying from 7 to 15 years.
From India to West Bengal: Repayable according
to established Government of India policy for
lending to States on terms prevailing at the
time.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Project Description:           The project would finance the expansion of
minor irrigation by supporting a four year
lending program mainly for the development of
shallow tubewells by individual or groups of
farmers and a program of deep tubewells
construction and river lift completion. The
project would also finance a number of agro-
service centers to improve inputs distribution,
agricultural markets, and improved extension
services. The project consists of:
(a) 18,000 electrically or diesel powered
shallow tubewells,
(b) 600 river lift and deep tubewell
completions
(c) 100 deep tubewells for MIC,
(d) 200 deep tubewells for farmers' groups,
(e) 200 agro-service centers,
(f)  the development of three markets,
(g) equipment and technical assistance for
SWB, MIC and the Department of Agriculture,
(h)  improvement of extension services, and
(i) the preparation of a second stage project.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Project Cost:                                     (US$ Million)
Local Foreign Total
(a) Minor Irrigation
Shallow Tubewells    19.0     3.4    22.4
Deep Tubewells        5.2      .5     5.7
River Lifts          12.3      -     12.3
Sub-Total       36.5     3.9    40.4
(b) Technical Assistance
and Support
Department of
Agriculture         4.6      .2     4.X
State Water Board      .6      .7     1.3
Project Prep. and
Studies              .3      -        .3
Sub-Total        5.5      .9     f.4
(c) Market Development     1.1      -      1.
(d) Apro-Service Centers   1.7      .3     2.n
Sub-Total        2.8      .3     3.1
(e) Contingencies         14.9     2.2    17.1
Total Project
Costs     59.7      7.3    67.0
Financing Plan:                                            (US$ Million)
Foreign  Local  Total
TDA Credit                  7.3    26.7    34.0
Local Financing:
Itltimate Borrowers     -      2.7     ?.7
Banks                   _      4.7    4.7
ARC/State Government    -     25.6    25.6
Total                  7.3    59.7   67.n
Estimated Disbursements:            FY197(   FY1977  FY1978  FY1979  FY1980
Amount  Amount   Amount  Amount  Amount
(1;S$ million)  Annual:         1.6     6.2      10.9    13.7     1.6
Cumulative:      1.6     7.8      18.7    32.4    34.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement
Arrangements:                All equipment, material and civil works would
be procured locally except for a small amount
of scientific equipment w-Zhichi would be imported
directly. Grouping of contracts for centralized
nrocurement in respect of small, diverse,
geographically scattered and discontinuous
investments are unsuitable for international
competitive bidding. Minor civil works for
deep tubewell construction and river lift
irrigation completions would be advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures,
which are satisfactory.
Rate of Return:                Economic rates of return range from 33% for a
deep tubewell on loam soi.l to over 50% for
most other types of investmflent in minor
irrigation and 12% for markets.
Appraisal Report:              No. 463a-IN dated April 4, 1975.



AFC. SNlstANu                                                  *'c.5I K KIM o
.p    S;  k   /r  C  H  I  N  A                                r   .  , ._,
PAKINTElPl2A                                          L
t   WEST  >  2         N   E   P  A   L\ D A R JBE E L iG        ;s___       B  H  U   T A   N
__   EENGAL ID                                                 G )       UIN
41 I N D IA_|.
i   ,-EANGLADEStz  \-_-xs   _           *       \     JM ~~~~~~~L P A I G U R I     -
Seo \ / b p  9 e / > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                               O  O C H   E E H A R 
SRI LANA 4. S A
The  ondre 1hov  -n 1hhma  do 
pI.pty   .n'sean -or   occ,#t hr hC. 
INDIA '6UM                                           2
WEST BENGAL                                       1           JALPAIGU
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  .-J
N- orly Areas
Proieal Arso                                              -
P roject Markets                       L - -- ,    ,        Blrh 
.........  Boundary between G ngeic Alluvium (to rhe Esl) i 
nd Vindhyc Alluvium  t lo the West ) 
---  Delimiting Boundaory Of Physical Feotures   :
O   District Heodquwrters                 J                
-------- District Boundories                |   =  i  K
EStEe Boundaries 
--- Pnternoaoncl Boundaries
aB d Vi  //H   A      R to e West)
o- D s i   oHeadquarters  D A  D                   Z
- 24-                      --?     0t 0   0'1      n iioBerhmpcnz  ,%                              24'-
-D,st  f,o0undar,ie   3 I Rs  B H  U Mn
0    oiv__S          E      m   .     *   1r- T
.>P   U   R   U  L   I  A  {  f g   /E NrshQoo
sl  ~~~    ~neraiona Boundariest .
\         )     3~~~~~ A 1`N K U R 4               8   t           >
F  R / , S A , r t / < 2' <
B  /  /1  A  p      ~~~~~~~~P            GA 
24   ~~2.0                         ~ ~   ~               Qrmpare                                     2d 
-22'                              i   %J' 
)t                                                   22'- 0 N5l9(aSw
A  (..-                                                        0   Howo  -  0to
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/          ',,s-   StttNStT  s~~~   C  ~             0 0



